ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:28]] They registered in the session hall with cards and directly 422 national deputies. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity is being reviewed. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, what about the procedure? All right, first deputy head of the Rules Committee, please, Sergey Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was just about to call you, you must have forgotten, stopped in the morning, forgot a little bit, but I'll remind you that there's a point in the second part of the first article 27. And I checked that some of the deputies, some of the deputies are missing for good reasons, some are sick, some are on leave. I ask you to announce this list of missing persons so that we can understand who is in the room and who is not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u3	Please give me a list, then I'll announce it. Dear National MPs, the draft Law on the peculiarities of purchasing in specific areas of agricultural activity, Reporter - Alexy Plotnikov, please, Alexy Vitaliyovich. [[Registration number 10006]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u4	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers draft Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Procurement in Certain Areas of Economic Activity was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 13, 2012. [[Registration number 10006]] This bill is aimed at implementing the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement, and it is proposed by its provisions at the legislative level to define a different than the generally accepted order for purchasing public funds for customers who conduct economic activities in certain areas. Such as production, transportation, and supply of thermal energy, electricity, drinking water, central water supply, and so on. The committee received 48 amendments from the national deputies. Of these, 25 are suggested to be rejected, others to be considered in whole or in part. This bill is in line with the Ukrainian Act No. 4648 of 12 April 2012 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on natural gas and port gas]] The bill also received comments from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, but in principle they are of a general nature and do not have a significant impact on the nature of the bill. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Economic Policy proposes the adoption of Bill No. 10006 on second reading and generally as a law. If there's an amendment, I'm ready to tell you exactly what was going on, what were the adjustments we were taking into account, which were not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u5	We're going to fix it, aren't we? Amendment 1, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone, please. Does Yuri Anatolyovich insist? Yeah, are we still going, Dubyl? No, it's not. Hiccup, microphone, please. 13 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! I ask 13 amendments and subsequent amendments rejected by my Committee to be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u7	Okay. A stick? No, it's not. Yes, Gorina? Don't insist. Yeah, that's it. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Law on the Specialities of Procurement in Certain Areas of the Economy." [[Registration number 10006]] Please vote. [[16:06:01]] For 260 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship referred to a letter proposing that the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity be postponed. Motivation: The law requires agreement between the authors of the amendments, I mean the bill. Is there no objection? Nobody insists? No, it's not. Let us postpone consideration of this draft Law. The draft Law on Economic Experiment for the Development of Software Industry in Ukraine is being announced for consideration. Davemuk Stepan Antonovich, please. Stepan Antonovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Science and Education.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u8	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, on December 14, last year, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council on the theme "Creating Ukraine with favourable conditions for the development of the software industry." It was with the support of these hearings that a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was being prepared. The first reading of the bill was adopted last December. The second reading reached 32 suggestions from the national deputies. 18 offers are included, 14 is rejected. Most of the suggestions are resounding, but there are some differences that have been made in the table in the same way by the national MPs. Taking into account the link between the bill and Bill No. 9744 and the need for harmonization of formulations, the committee twice made decisions on its adoption. Additional changes had to be made. As a result, the name of the bill on economic experiment to create favourable conditions for the development of Ukraine in the country of the software industry has been replaced by State support for the development of the software industry. In the Committee’s view, this name is more relevant to the substance of the measures proposed by the State. The draft law itself is substantially reduced, and the total declarant is removed. According to proposals made by the people’s deputies, a number of laws have been removed. The draft consists of six articles proposed for second reading. The law proposes to apply the characteristics of taxation of operators in the software industry as defined in Law 9744, which will be considered next. These are changes in the Ukrainian Tax Code to which this bill refers. And the last. There is a proposal to increase the duration of the new formula for payment of a single social contribution from 5 to 10 years. That is, to present this proposal in the next edition. Before saying "the only contribution for hired workers, subjects", insert the words "temporarily between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2022." How this corresponds to the next project. The committee proposes to adopt the proposed bill in second reading as a law. Please support the committee's decision to take account of the changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u9	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The name of the draft law has been clarified. The committee counted. We need to put it to a vote to approve the name of the draft law. May I have your attention, please? Amendment 1 concerning the name of the law shall be put to the vote. Please vote. Please vote. [[16:10:51]] For 233 Decision taken. Amendment 5. Eugene Kzarykov, do you insist on her? Is he insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u10	Yes, I'll have her put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u11	Puts to the vote the 5th amendment. [[16:11:32]] For 222 Correction not supported. Amendment 10. Queens, are you insisting on her? Oh, no? No, it's not. 14th? No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin, 7th Amendment. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u12	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, 7th and before that, it's on the bill, isn't it? I propose articles 1-7 to merge into chapter I, which is the title in this edition of "The Basic Positions of an Economic Experiment." This change is solely for the purpose of meeting the requirements of the legislative technique for the provision of normative material. Please be supportive. And I would like to say, Your Honor, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that the excitement in society is on the rise, the anxiety in society is growing due to the possible consequences of the adoption of unwarranted legislation. And I remind you that President Viktor Janukovic said he was going to make drafts that didn't undermine society, and he's going to put a moratorium on those bills that are destroying society. What now stands the people's deputies here on the left and on the right of you in the Presidium, it will be destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u13	Amendment 7 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:13:25]] For-22. Correction not supported. Shevchuk, repair. No, Yuri Carmazin, 29th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u14	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 29, I suggest you write it down. Wait, 29th and you're 24. Vladimir Mikhailovich, there may be something wrong with you. Look at the 24 amendments, please. You see, yes, can we report 24th, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u15	Yes, please, 24 amendments. 24th, please. I just jumped it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u16	Yuri Carmazin. The 24th amendment concerns what I propose in article 6 of the bill to put in such an editorial. "The conditions for ensuring the transparency and openness of an economic experiment. The economic experiment on creating an enabling environment for the development of the software industry in Ukraine is based on the principles of transparency and openness. The Central Authority of the Executive Body on Innovation and Information Science of Ukraine submits an annual report to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the progress of the economic experiment on the interim and final results of its implementation, on the prospects for the continuation of the economic experiment on the purpose of the economic experiment, on the progress of its implementation, and on the interim and final results of the economic experiment, on the central authority of the executive branch of science, innovation and information of Ukraine, on a quarterly basis, on the official website of the Internet." That's why I'm making these changes so that I can clearly define the reporting order for an economic experiment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u17	24 amendments shall be made to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u18	Please back up! [[16:15:47.]] For-28 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 29, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u19	Yuri Carmazin. I thank you very much, all of you for the publicity and ask that we vote with a large number of votes. Opposition must now be united. Because the threats we face are united. That's why I suggest you write it down in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u20	This is the title of article 8. "Chapter III, "To the end and to the passersby."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u21	The title of article 8 appears in the text. And I'm giving an editorial that they haven't written down here, because of me, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, look for other records. It's called, "Chapter II, End and Transitional Positions." This is so that, according to article 90, part eight, of the Supreme Council Rules, if changes to other laws are necessary to implement the bill after it has been passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u22	Yes. Puts to the vote 29 amendments. [[16:17:19]] For-23 The decision is not taken. Oleg Shevchuk, 307 repairs. [[B in m in s a l in]] What happened? What happened? Dear colleagues, calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. Yes, Your Honor, 307 revisions. Amendment 307. Oleg Shevchuk insists on her? No, it's not. Then all the amendments are considered. A proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Law on Economic Experiment (as regards the creation of favourable conditions for development in Ukraine). [[B in m in s a l in]] Registration number 8267. Please vote. [[16:18:40]] For 245 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Special Taxation Regimes for the Software Industry is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9744]] The reporter is Vitaly Hometicnik. Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u23	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The bill is prepared for a second reading by a working group that agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers. And if it's narrowed down, all the suggestions were taken into account. He's adding to the previous bill. Because if we've adopted a whole previous bill, we need to make benefits in tax legislation. That's why the bill is prepared. Those amendments that have been agreed upon by the committee are included. In total, there were 69 proposals, 29 included, 11 taken into account, either editorially or partially. Please vote, support in the second reading and in general the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u24	Honorable National MPs, as amended. 5 revisions. Is the author insisting? No, it's not. 7th? No, it's not. 11th. Is the author insisting? Dear National MPs, since no one insists on their amendments, I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Special Taxation Regimes for Subjects of the Software Production Industry. [[Registration number 9744]] Please vote. [[16:21:28]] For 262 The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 4 of the Law on Joint Investment Institutions (spider and corporate investment funds) (for the protection of the property interests of ISI participants) (registration No. 10087) is announced for consideration. [[B in m in s a l i.]] The reporter is Igor Prassolov. Microphone, please. Igor Prassolov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u25	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! There were 8 amendments to the second reading: 4 – taken into account completely, one taken into account editorially, two taken into account with editorial details, one amendment we were forced to reject. We also learned the conclusion of the Chief Legal Authority. Unfortunately, we must say that we cannot share the opinion of our respected lawyers, since it is the law that establishes the principle and guarantee of the right of ISI participants to continue their activities. And order only details the procedure for making the decision in accordance with the law. At the same time, we feel that we should agree with the Legal Authority’s observation on the need for editorial clarification. So for the transcript, please consider the only clarification for the second sentence of the sixth draft with the words "on the day of registration of this ISI." This clarification is related to the clear date on which the ISI was established. On the basis of the above, I ask you, my fellow Members, to support this bill, taking into account editorial clarification in the second reading and in general as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u26	Dear National Deputies! Of the eight amendments, seven are included. Seven amendments are included, one is not included. The rapporteur proposes that the bill be finally adopted to take into account the editorial amendment he spoke of. In view of this, I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as bill of draft law registration number 10087. Please vote. [[16:24:19]] For 255 The law is passed. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't scream! No one takes a break in these circumstances. Don't yell, I'm begging you, let's sit down, you'll have a break. What are you yelling at? Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider the decrees. Dear colleagues, there will be no interruptions, sit down, then there will be a break. Please, come on. Everybody sit down, I say, all of you, sit down, then it'll be a break. I'm asking everyone to sit down. I beg you, don't be impertinent, I'll treat you with respect. Dear colleagues, please calm down, there will be a break. I'm asking everyone to calm down. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Dear colleagues, let us not be disturbed. I'm asking you, everybody, I'm asking you to sit down, then I'm going to call it a day. I'm asking everyone, please, and I'm asking you all. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you again. Don't give me that. You're a grown man. Don't give me that. I'm just fine. Dear colleagues, please. I want to do it again. Calmly, how am I going to advertise in this situation? Ladies and gentlemen, do you request a half-hour recess under the Rules? A break of up to 16 hours is announced for 55 minutes. Does it suit you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u27	The results of the meeting of the Conciliation Board discussed our situation. political activation. There are a few options, well, first, when it comes time to consider a package of these bills, which consists of five, then put to the vote a motion to postpone the consideration of these documents. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute. Well, me. Now the faction leaders are going to tell you, I'm going to tell you what we talked about. The second suggestion, after considering these bills, if there is no support for any of them, is to send a bill to the commission committee. The third suggestion was to study the question of possible implementation. on the possible holding of a referendum on this subject. At least. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute, listen. Although it was obvious to all of us that we only need to understand one thing about how to arrange the results of the referendum, because it will be possible to calculate the situation in every area and the situation in Ukraine will be well known. The faction leaders said that they needed some time, that they would now hold such working meetings with their colleagues, and when they were ready, they would make a statement about their position. And now we're going to consider the issues that are on the agenda, including the appointment of out-of-order elections and the fact that we have four more, five more bills. That's how the decisions were made, so please be glad. And I would now like to continue to work on the question of the selection of out-of-order local elections, so that we don't carry on this election again, because we've already prepared, we've made the right decisions. Kazyanuk Alexander Rostislavovich, please, on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u28	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Rule at its meeting on May 16 discussed the individual concerns of local councils regarding the appointment of out-of-order elections. This is 13 villages per village head. In view of the suspension of their term of office pursuant to article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, the reasons for the suspension of their term of office are as follows. If you want to, 13 cases, 1 case in connection with death. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the election be scheduled for Sunday, October 28, 2012. Yesterday, however, on May 23, after studying the matter, the committee, after hearing the position of a member of the Central Electoral Commission who had been invited to meet with the Legal Office, decided to review the date of the non-recurrent local elections for the purpose of divorce during the parliamentary elections and the out-of-court local elections. When the decision was made, the committee was guided by the following. First. First of all, it should be determined that the OSCE, the Congress of Regional and Local Authorities of the Council of Europe, as a result of the report of the election monitoring mission on 26 March 2006, is recommended to organize local elections separately from parliamentary elections. The other one. Ukraine's Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads does not provide that election polling stations are used to hold parliamentary elections. Third. Election laws do not allow parliamentary and local elections to be held by one district election commission. That is, if parliamentary and local elections are held at the same time, there will be two compositions of the electoral boards in the order prescribed by the law. Four. Elections from parliamentary and local elections should be organized independently of each other. Voting should take place in different voting rooms. Therefore, it will not be possible to achieve cost savings for their organization as a result of simultaneous implementation. In doing so, there may be difficulties in selecting a suitable place to vote. Thus, the committee considers it appropriate to replace the draft regulations with registration numbers from 10487 to 10487-13, which provide for the date of the elections, with the election on 28 October 2012 by 5 August 2012. Please, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, put these draft decrees to the vote on 5 August 2012. I would also like to point out that on May 17th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has already adopted 18 decrees on the date of October 28, 2012, by which it appointed such successive elections. And since these decisions have not yet been signed by you, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, and have not come into force, the Committee is also proposing that the above-mentioned rulings replace the registration numbers with the corresponding draft decrees from 10369 to 10369-17 with the election date of 5 August 2012. I ask the committee to put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u29	I ask Your Honor Alexander Rostislavovich, please give me the committee's decision, because I don't have the committee's decision. There is a committee decision to hold the elections on October 27, 28. Please pass it to me, because we can't make a decision out of words. Where is your decision? Please. They were sitting yesterday, and I'll see you now, but he doesn't say that they held another committee meeting yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Alexander Rostislavovich, where is the committee's decision? Give it to me, please. Well, can you pass it on to me? Give me the committee's decision. There's no committee decision. Is that easy? Please, Committee Secretary Sergei Gordienko, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u30	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The committee discussed the matter yesterday. And in view of the fact that there is no legislation and it is impossible to hold an election on one day, as the rapporteur argued, the committee decided that the Supreme Council should be determined on a new date of elections, which was announced on behalf of the Cassinuk Committee. Why you don't have a written decision on your desk -- I think it's some kind of hardware thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, then the suggestion is: I would like to ask the committee and the Chief Legal Authority to deal with this proposal. Because if we're changing the date now, we're not combining the local term elections with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, then we're going to have to go back to the decisions we made and make the adjustments. So the suggestion is to postpone the consideration of this issue now, rework it. I'm entrusting the Chief Legal Authority with the State Building Committee to make agreed proposals. Is the offer understood? Is there no objection? Thank God! A draft Ordinance on the withdrawal of certain bills on the restoration of the debtor’s ability to pay or recognition as bankruptcy is being announced. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u32	The fences.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u33	The fences of Alexi. Briefly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, on December 22, 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act on the Amendment to the Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Payment of the Debtor by Bankruptcy, by which the Law on the Recovery or Recognition of the Payability of the Debtor was published in a new edition. Until then, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Committee on Economic Policy had six draft bills on the recovery or bankruptcy of the debtor. This is 0874, 3528, 6281, 6612, 7329, 8620. Taking into account the above, the Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 21 February 2012 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with part two of article 95, part two of article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to withdraw the above-mentioned bills as having become obsolete as a result of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law of 22 December 2011 amending the Law on Restoration or Determining Its Bankruptcy. And to recognize that they've lost their validity, four decisions to take on the basis of a few of the projects mentioned above. This is Decree 440, Decree 2589, Decree 2613 and Decree 2884. The Economic Policy Committee is asking us to support our decision to withdraw from the consideration of a number of bills and regulations that accompany these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! There is a motion for a vote on the adoption of a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain bills on the question of the restoration of the debtor's capacity to pay or recognition of his bankruptcy, please vote. [[Registration number 10101]] [[17:16:19]] For 251 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! Consultations took place in such a working order between factions and factions. And the faction is ready to make a statement on behalf of the factions that took a break. Who will act? Viacheslav Kirilenko? Please. Turn the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u36	Viacheslav Kirilenko. A statement from the united opposition of the Yulia Timoshenko and NU-NS. Dear voters, dear colleagues! We are very concerned about the events that are taking place in the hall today. At a time when no social issue in the country has been resolved when the retirement age for women has been increased, when the subsistence minimum is low, when wages are low, when savings are never recovered, when people cannot buy for their money what is needed in markets and shops, when millions of people without apartments, when no rights can be protected in courts, when political repression has flourished in the country with a violent flower and are imprisoned by Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, when the country in total international isolation on all the outer fronts, when the mistrust of power has reached a critical limit when people in the East, and in the West, at this point in power, Janukovich, the parliamentary majority are putting into an apple-split form of language law. Why? So that Ukrainians in the East and West start arguing with each other to eat them with their foreheads, not to solve social and economic issues, but to have the whole country take each other's breasts and say, "What language are you in for national or regional?" How did you vote to introduce one of the eighteen regional languages, or do you want it to be Ukrainian and still national? We cannot allow this to happen when the storm reaches the entire country. Already in Parliament, thousands of people, millions of people are watching television right now, listening to radio, millions of people can't live peacefully on this day because they know that this majority is set to destroy Ukrainian language and take away from the Ukrainian people, perhaps the last thing that is left of it, and not yet taken by these oligarches, his soul, his heart, the language of the Ukrainian people. That's why we demand that all the bills be removed on a language subject today. We demand that this issue not be brought into the hall at all, such as the one that is disrupting society. And we encourage colleagues from most who have state views, which are patriots, which are mostly, we know about it, and we know what pressure is being exerted on them now, let them go to this question with an open heart, let them not support this provocation that was brought into the other Ukraine's hall. We won't miss it! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u37	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] When we come to that point, I will certainly put to the vote a motion to withdraw or postpone the consideration of language bills. All or one, as you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u38	All of them, no problem. Now let's look at the laws to which the President of Ukraine belongs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Oh, no, when we get there, I'll do it later. Let's not rush. To re-examine with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Ukraine's Act on Making Changes to Some. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u39	Adam Ivanovich, please announce. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Mergers of Multi-Apartment House Owners, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 10.04. 2012. There is a proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. Let's announce, let's announce, everybody's there, usually. Well, whatever you're worried about, you've already checked everything. What are you telling me? You'll go in person and ask. Don't give me that assignment. [[17:21:17]] For 249 Decision taken. The reporter is Yuri Miroshnichenko. The reporter is Sergey Serbin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u40	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts concerning the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House, adopted by the Supreme Council on 15 March 2012, cannot be signed for such reasons. [[Registration number 8474]] This law is called upon to create a competitive environment in the housing services market. It should be noted, however, that the rules of law do not meet the constitutional principles of the protection of private property rights, articles 13 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which may result in uncontrolled alienation from the unification of the joint owners of the apartment building of residential areas. They narrow down the rights of joint property owners in a large apartment building, which is a violation of article 22 of the Constitution. There are no problems with the creation of joint owners in newly built buildings. The organization of such unifications in old - fashioned buildings is not being improved. The law contains internal contradictions that create risks of uneven application of the law. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine and reject the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u41	My beard, please, from the committee. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u42	A draft government bill for second reading, adopted as a basis for July 5, last year, was discussed six times by the committee on the need to reconcile issues with the Ministry and the public organizations. The last draft of the bill was initiated by the General Legal Authority without notice. On March 15, this year, the bill was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole as a bill of 235 votes by national deputies. The President of Ukraine on April 17, this year, made proposals to this law, requiring that the adopted law be rejected as one that violates the requirements of several articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert management, concluded on 14 May this year, supports the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the law adopted. At its meeting on May 16, the Committee decided to agree with the opinion of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u43	Honourable National Deputies, Honorary Colleagues, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority also proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject this law. I am voting for a motion to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the unification of joint owners of a multi-housing house. [[Registration number 8474]] Please vote. [[17:24:56]] For 253 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Adaptation to Legal Persons and Subjects of Property Rights of Individuals, Jubilee and Celebration Dates, Names and Dates of Historical Events, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 14.03. In 2012. [[Registration number 2447]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:25:37]] For 245 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Yuri Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur, Stepan Davimuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u44	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act "On Adaptation to Legal Persons and Subjects of Property Rights of Individuals, Jubilee and Celebration Dates, Names and Dates of Historical Events" adopted by the Supreme Council on 23 February 2012 cannot be signed by the President for the following reasons. [[Registration number 2447]] The proposed rules limit the constitutional powers of the Head of State to exercise leadership in the area of national security and defence of Ukraine and contradict article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The law proposes that the President, as the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, assigns the names of the individuals, the Jubilee and the festival dates, the names and dates of historical events, the merger, the merger, the military forces, the military educational institutions, the institutions, the organizations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. At the same time, the right to assign the names of natural persons, Jubilee and Celebration dates, names and dates to historical events, other established by law, military formations, is granted by law to state authorities governing appropriate military formations. It is considered necessary in the law to regulate the powers of the President of Ukraine and, accordingly, to order the head of state to submit these issues, providing for them to be introduced by the state authorities governing other entities, in accordance with the law, by military formations. I call on the Chamber to support the proposal of the Head of State to ensure that our laws are qualitative and in line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the interests of our citizens. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u45	Stepan Davemuk, please. None. Dear colleagues, there are two amendments that the committee has taken into account. They should be put to the vote for confirmation. Amendment 1 I'll bet you a vote on the amendment for confirmation. Please vote. [[17:28:14]] For 253 Decision taken. It's up to the vote to Amendment 2 to support it. Please vote. [[17:28:36]] For 259. Amendment 2 received. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a bill to be passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2447]] Please vote. [[17:29:06]] For 258. The law was passed in a new order. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending Appendix No. 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on budgetary allocations]] [[Registration number 10478]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:29:44]] For 255 Decision taken. The reporter is Adam Martinyuk. The reporter is Valérie Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, Catherine Timofievna Vashchuk and I propose to amend Appendix No. 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. The need for such changes is dictated by the following. In Appendix No7 of the State Budget subsidies, we recorded a certain amount of funds for socio-economic development in the name of the local administrative and territorial unit, which is 2 million, 4 million dollars for the village of Ivanovka Rožishten. Without a doubt, each village would be worth a certain amount of money, and that would be a good thing. But the purpose for which these funds were to be used would not be used because it was predicted that a church building would be built, including these funds. Of course, no State Treasury will miss the construction of church buildings at the expense of government funds. At the same time, there is an urgent problem in this Rostian area to complete the reconstruction of the central district hospital and, above all, to cover up this hospital, which is extremely important in view of the upheaval of the fall season. So we suggest that in this plugin you take the words "for the village of Ivanovka," that is, for the territorial units of the district of Rožistian region, and in this area these funds will be used, including some of the funds that can be used to repair the road in this village of Ivanovka, or some other needs for which state funds can be used, they will be used. So please support this proposal, take the words "for the village of Ivanovka" away from the "Rystian region." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u47	Valery Baranov, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, there is. Lukyanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u48	This bill on the committee wasn't discussed, but before, well. There were no comments regarding the rejection of the bill. So there's an offer: to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u49	Please sign up for the discussion. Igor Plahoi, please. He's refusing. Katerina Vashtsuk instead of Gryvkoski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. It is true that in favor of the area, in favor of the same village, the village of John, because otherwise the money will simply go out, it will not be used. There is an urgent need in the area, Adam Ivanovich said, in the repair of the district hospital, there is a roof that flows through all the cracks, and there is a need to treat people, a large area. In the village of Ivanovka, we need to repair the road, do other social repairs. social structures, all of which will be done if the money comes to the area for social needs, for the repair of social facilities. Please, I'm from this area, I know the situation. There's a call from the district council to you and me, members of the district council, district people, doctors, people of all, citizens. Please be very supportive of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u51	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Act amending Appendix No. 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2012 is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10478]] Please vote. [[17:35:10]] For 240 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider, please note, the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2012 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 10488. I understand, the rise in the political temperature in the room, and I'm going to put it to a vote now to see if there's a willingness in the Supreme Council to consider this issue right now. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[17:36:06]] For 221 I'm asking you, dear fellows, to think it's a signal vote of readiness, so I don't see a problem. Well, I'm betting on the vote to return to the vote. Please vote. [[17:36:36]] For 239. There is a willingness to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:36:54]] For 237 Decision taken. The reporter is Alexander Oliynik, the first Deputy Secretary of Defense. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u52	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In 2012, six multinational trainings are planned in Ukraine in conjunction with the Armed Forces units, both Western partners and neighbours. With the SND countries, we plan to work together in the framework of the Ukrainian-Russian teaching "Forwater of Peace 2012", the Ukrainian-Belarusian-Russian teaching "Slovakia Partnership 2012". And also Ukrainian-Belarusian and Ukrainian-Russian anti-aircraft teachings. The Western partners are scheduled to conduct the most extensive exercises of the Sea Breeze-2012 and the Repid Trident-2012, during which our partners have traditionally directed considerable resources to provide these trainings. Which will buy fuel-oil materials for Ukrainian ships, planes and combat equipment. And this is a normal world practice, because our partners get the opportunity to prepare in our territory, which is mutually beneficial. All joint learning has an exclusively peaceful theme. It should be noted that multinational training will work for the strength of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and national security of the state and is the final stage in preparing the Ukrainian Armed Forces for international peacekeeping operations. Dear National Deputies! In the light of the above, the Ministry of Defence is asking for support for the draft of the law of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u53	Thank you, too. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Stepanovich Griesenka, to report. Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! This bill is being tabled every year, and if it wasn't for the disgraceful situation with the Language Law, I'm sure he'd get almost 400 votes. [[language, language]] Our committee has considered this bill. Traditionally, and this is their principle position, the representative of the Anti-Compatriot, everyone else. I mean, it's actually an all-inclusive "for." We know that our army must achieve mutual compatibility with partner countries in order to protect our interests and stability in the region and the world, and without military training, we cannot, in principle. What's more, it's part of the military training that's being conducted in Ukraine. And according to data provided by the Defence Ministry during the committee review, about 5 million dollars are allocated by Ukraine and seven times more by our partners from other countries. That is, in the face of the poverty of the Ukrainian army, it is a serious economic gain even for military school and for us to do anything other than ritual and parade training and military training. So please support this bill. And I would also like to say. If you're interested, from the point of view of national security, the language law. So let's leave the person who should be at the centre of attention in peace. And we're not going to destroy our society right now. Let's get all the language bills off the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Basil Hara, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u56	Dear colleagues, our army's problems have been replicated for 20 years. And yesterday's debate at the parliamentary hearings has shown that we have a rather sad situation. What the President is offering is one of the possibilities of externally drawn funds to show what we have is not all bad, of course. And look at the positive experiences of those who will participate in the exercises in our territory. I therefore believe that we must all support and take this decision in a friendly manner and allow our troops to participate in European-level exercises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u57	Grivkowski, please. He's refusing? Well, he's refusing. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee proposes to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office has reached a positive conclusion on this issue and this bill. There is a vote on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Presidential Decision approving the entry into Ukraine's territory of other States' Armed Forces troops in 2012 for participation in multinational military training, please vote. [[Registration number 10488]] [[17:42:46]] For 238. The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! Now to the subject of fever in society and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Once again, I emphasize and remind you of the suggestions on the Conciliation Council. What will be the first to vote is a motion to postpone consideration of draft laws that deal with language. Registration numbers: 9059, 9059-1, 9073. Just a minute. About the postponement. 9714, 9714-1. There's another bill. But it's not included in the agenda, it's registration number 10514. If you don't agree to postpone consideration of the bill, then I'll put the vote on inclusion in the agenda and consideration at the same time. Just a minute. Adam Ivanovich, pick up and announce now. [[B in m in s a l in]] They're going to announce one minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please. Announcement. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u58	Dear colleagues. Don't yell, don't shout. Dear colleagues, we are provided with information from the Department of Public Health and with information from the Apparatus, which is in accordance with the orders of the Head of the Supreme Council on mission or vacation. I'll read what's given. But not always, you've seen for yourself, it's true. For there is an order of the Head to be sent out, and a man has either not left or has arrived. There's a man who's kind of sick, and he's in the hall. That's why I call names, and you'll see, you'll see, you'll see. Hospitals: Belowsova, Triduk, Klukkowski. On mission: Shershun, he is; The sand in the shipping, but it is; Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, but it is; Grigorovich, Kzarykov, Upper, Skubenko, Borodin, Pavlovsky, School, Zvaric, Samylik Katerina, who is. On holidays: Novikov, Skudar, Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u59	Dear people's deputies, please. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you, all the heroes who call names here, personally go and ask, and they'll explain it to you, and you won't have any questions. Please keep your voice down. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention again, and please vote. There is a motion to postpone the consideration of draft legislation on language issues. [[Registration numbers 9059, 9059-1]] These are draft laws, I'll read them. "The ban on narrowing the scope of the use of Ukrainian." [[author – Viacheslav Kirilenko]] And the second bill on the prohibition of narrowing the scope of the use of regional languages or minority languages of Ukraine. [[author - Koleschenko Vadim]] Then Bill 9073), the authors of the bill, Kiwalov and Koleshnenko. And finally, Bills 9714, 9714-1 is a bill by Kolesnick and Lutsky to amend the Law on Preschool Education and the Bill of National Deputies of Ukraine Samojlik, Kurilo, Baranov, Mahorts*** to amend the Law on Preschool Education. [[on the organization of the educational process]] I'm voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of these bills, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote, please. [[17:47:27]] For 1 It's not a decision, it's a pity. Dear National Deputies, then we need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Ukrainian State Language Act, by Paul Mokchan. [[Registration number 10514]] Please vote. [[17:48:02]] For-0 Well, why don't you vote, dear fellows? Then let us move on to the full - time consideration of these issues. Such a rule is proposed. For the rapporteurs, up to 10 minutes, as the Rules provide. The answer to the question is in five minutes. For a report to the committee head, you should probably give 10 minutes. And the answers to the questions are five minutes. From the factions and the performances of the national MPs. The draft Law is announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9059]] Viachelav Kirilenko, please. Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u60	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters! Dear colleagues! We have already announced the position of the united opposition forces that everything that is going on around the language issue right now in the hall is a pre-planned provocation that aims to divert the attention of the Ukrainian people from social issues, from the issues of wages, housing, education, the return of savings, political repression, external isolation and the mass of other issues that the authorities cannot resolve, which it has failed and now wants to suppress with language issues. So we're taking down a bill that's been passed in other circumstances two and a half years ago and we're calling for those who don't speak, but in practice care about the peace of the state and the Ukrainian people, not the oppression of hysteria, the turmoil in society, the turmoil in the head and the opposition that will inevitably arise if most people today approve the provocative Language Act of the majority. Again and again, we say that the issues raised in language legislation do not have anything, nothing, to do with the vicious current problems that concern Ukrainians in the east and the west. Once again, most of the authors of other bills that Ukrainians in Donbassa and Galicín, Montenegro and Crimea today are concerned not about what the regional language will be like, which of the 18 regional languages will be regional, or all 18 of them, but about when the pension will be increased, when the salary will be increased, when housing will be granted, when rights can be protected in court when it is possible to live more humanly. These questions concern Ukrainians throughout the country. That's why I'm filming my bill, and I'm asking you not to look at it. I call on the opponents to do the same, unless they are provokers sent here from abroad and I call on the patriotic, state-owned deputies to make a decision of a free nature, and not look at the pressure, not to support language bills that essentially destroy Ukrainian language, leave it with only a name and leave no stone stone on the status of national language as Ukrainian, because such an approach is a violation of the Constitution, because only the Constitution can determine the status of languages. As early as 1996, articles 10 of the Constitution and 1989 of the Language Act settled all issues of language in Ukraine. We don't have any language persecution. We don't have any language preferences. The Ukrainian people speak the language in which they are comfortable. The language issue in Ukraine is resolved. We urge you to stop this provocative discussion of the provocative bills that the authorities have submitted today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, let's make this happen: we'll go through all the bills, then we'll vote in turn. Because if they don't vote, then we have to talk. Yeah, right now, when Koleschenko comes. We agreed that everyone would report now, and then you'd report it. Dear colleagues, Bill 9059-1. Vadim Koleschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u62	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished voters! You can hear a shabbash who is being set up by national fascists who, apart from their point of view, do not accept any other view. They're national fascists who can shoot people for speaking a language other than what they want. They're national fascists who are willing to shoot a man for having another nationality. However, I call on the citizens of Ukraine to draw attention to the fact that our independent Ukrainian State has created people of all nationalities who have different languages that are native to them. And these people tax our Ukrainian state. At the same time, I draw the attention of the voters of Ukraine to the fact that Ukraine has repeatedly expressed its euro aspirations. I would therefore draw the attention of our constituents, not the Fascist nationalists, who, in addition to their views, know nothing about the long-standing resolution of the language issue in Europe. These are also countries where there are between 2 and 4 public languages. Where there are no 2-3 State languages, it is decided that languages are protected by the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. And that's right. Because today, in the 21st century, we are building a state in which human rights are the dominant. We are building a State where the ideology of human dignity and its protection is paramount. We have had experience in the 1930s when monoideology and monotonation essentially brought Europe to its knees, and it was only through the concentration of the will of the entire world community that fascism was destroyed. To this day, we offer our community a peaceful solution to our coexistence under very difficult conditions. Only a foolish and unreasonable person does not recognize that Ukraine is a multi-ethnic, multi-ethnic State and where the world is very and very fragile. And today we need to know clearly and understand that, according to the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine over the past 20 years, mutual intolerance and mutual hatred against Russian, Jewish, Roma and people of other nationalities have increased by 5, 7, 15 times. People who do not understand that Ukraine is inhabited by people of different nationalities are prepared to end the disaster with Ukrainian statehood and Ukrainian independence. That is why the Party of Regions, the reasonable people of our country, have done their utmost to prepare a balanced European law that ensures the protection of the Ukrainian language as a State and regional place of compact residence of the people who are building our independent Ukrainian State. I point out that those who scream haven't even read the bill. These are people who do not even know about the international obligations of our Ukrainian State. I recall that Ukraine had ratified the Charter on Regional Languages and had undertaken to protect 13 regional languages. In the regional language bill, we met the wishes of the Venice Commission and the OSCE Commissioner and added four more languages so that we could protect them and ensure equal participation in the construction and administration of our State. I draw attention to the statement by Knut Wallebeck, OSCE High Commissioner for the Rights of Natsminin. He said: “It is not the responsibility of the parties to ensure the development of the regional language at the places of compact residence of these people that countries must ensure that the regional language is used in the territory of the whole State.” This is done to ensure, not the assimilation of the violence that is required of us, but the integration of people into the community called the “Ukrainian nation”. I understand very well the people who scream. These are the people who are afraid to lose their jobs. Because they don't know anything else. Moreover, they were not even able to read in Ukrainian, in the State language, because if they had opened the bill and read it, they would have been surprised that there was article 6 in the bill, which said that the only State language in Ukraine was Ukrainian; they would have wondered if they had read an article that said that the Ukrainian State was the only one in the defence language. These inadequacies would read in Ukrainian that the work of public authorities and local self-government was provided in the State language. These remarks would be surprised to learn that the bill was written in black and national language, that education in Ukraine was provided in the Ukrainian State language. And only in places of compact residence of people whose mother tongue is another, non-State, the State makes it possible to use the second language, and I stress, rather than the “place” of the Ukrainian State. We're seeing a panoptic with you, a performance called "I'm afraid of losing my job and telling me nothing." And here we see these crickets, who have nothing to say to the frank and bitter truth that the Party of the Regions has provided protection to the Ukrainian language through the adoption of the bill, and they have done nothing in 20 years to protect the Ukrainian language, to ensure its development and to ensure that the people in their country, without fear of being put to the wall tomorrow, will speak their own language. And they are those who have a conscience to speak of some human rights, and they are those who are able to speak of human dignity. We can see very well what human dignity means to them: either we, or all others, are traitors, or all the rest of us are not villains, or all the rest of us are not people who have the right to their views, to their freedom and to their right. I stress, for the citizens of Ukraine, you see a spectacle of the idle. And I call upon the people of Ukraine, peaceful and very tolerant, who respect each other, who treat the people who speak different languages well. Citizens of Ukraine, you see the outgoing political bodies, their fall will no longer be in Parliament and glory to God. We see an icon, yes, this icon calls upon these people to remember and to confess to men the sins they have brought. We are withdrawing Bill 9059-1 because we have prepared an excellent, European-compliant bill on the foundations of public language policy, which provides real protection of the Ukrainian State language from the dirty hands of so-called patriots. And this bill ensures the peaceful coexistence of citizens of all nationalities, of all faiths, of citizens who have a native language of any other than the State. This ensures peace and tranquillity in our wonderful Ukrainian State. I call, of course, to support the bill on the basis of language public policy as the most European, the most democratic, which protects human rights, protects the dignity of every human citizen, not just those elected, the bill, which does not simply conform to European standards, is in line with the aspirations of the entire Ukrainian people, the democratic aspirations of our Ukrainian policies and people who are concerned about the future of our independent Ukrainian State. We are therefore withdrawing Bill 9059-1 and calling for you to vote in favour of the bill on the foundations of public language policy. Thank you so much for the spectacle that has been shown to us by people who do not love the Ukrainian people, who hate the Ukrainian language, who hate the statehood of our wonderful Ukrainian State. But I'm sure their time is running out. Their time is up. And thank God, the Ukrainian people will soon be sighing and will be relieved to throw the Tunisians off their backs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the authors of the two draft laws have spoken for their removal. [[Registration numbers 9059, 9059-1]] I would like to take this into account in the process of further discussion. Now, here's the report on Bill 9073. Who's going to report, Kielczynko or Kiwalov? A chariot, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u64	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected Ukrainians and respected deputies, who have the opportunity to hear what we are saying. I am talking about the need to see our Law on the Fundamentals of Foreign and Internal Policy. I think everyone here voted in favour of the European choice of the Ukrainian State. And we know clearly and understand that our actions must focus on the protection of human rights that exists in the countries of the European Commonwealth. I note that the Charter of Regional Languages, the linguistic minorities, which has been adopted by the Ukrainian State, takes into account and on the basis of what is today an obligation, is supported by half of the European Union countries. And those countries that have not ratified the European Charter have between two and four national languages. At the same time, the Charter of Regional Languages protects dying languages is again a misunderstanding and a totally childish misunderstanding. Because the regional languages in Europe are: Italian, German, Romanian are the languages that have 200 million bearers, so it is a question of protecting human rights. At the same time, I remind our citizens and citizens of Ukraine that, by voting on 25 February 2010, the European Parliament, by voting on Ukraine, said one of the paragraphs, regretting that the right of citizens to learn in their mother tongue had not yet been ensured in Ukraine. I would like to point out that last year the United Nations regretted Ukraine's failure to implement the Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of the Child and the right of the child to education in the mother tongue and to inclusive education. I will recall the disgraceful document adopted by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which was adopted. The Committee of Experts of the Council of Europe in June 2010, where more than a hundred pages emphasize that the human rights to the use of the mother tongue are systematically and massively violated in Ukraine. Moreover, there are scary phrases for Ukraine, I am literally speaking from the words of the report “is regrettable that in Ukraine, where so many people use Russian as their mother tongue, so far, this Russian language has such a low and inappropriate status”. And, second quote from the same report of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, it states that “the experts have suggested that this problem will soon be corrected and that the Russian language will receive its status”. This is not a programme of the Party of the Regions, it is the policy recommendations of the experts of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. So where were these screams when they read the report? For them, the radicality of older women is more important than the interests of the Ukrainian State. The language policy framework bill takes into account all the recommendations I have made. Moreover, all the recommendations of the Venice Commission and OSCE have been taken into account. I have already said that we have added even four languages, which have been proposed by these respected European institutions, as a sign that we are ready to cooperate with Europe, we understand the importance of protecting human rights. Recalling the same Knut Wallebeck, I will remind you that today we are on the verge of important events, when the entire Ukrainian people must realize that we are a monolithic, political nation. The Ukrainian people, where everyone's rights are not violated, where everyone's rights are protected, where every Ukrainian citizen, regardless of language, regardless of religion, regardless of nationality, has the right not only to pay taxes on the maintenance of our State, he has the right to speak, he has the right to be heard, he has the right to be protected. These are real principles for the rule of law. And when I go back to the bill on the basis of the language policy, I can only say one thing: article 6 of this bill is paragraph 1: “The Ukrainian language is the State language”, and paragraph 5 of this article says: “No provision of this law can be interpreted as referring to narrowing the scope of the use of the State language.” I would like to say that the liars who have captured our television screens in the last few days have not read this bill that protects the rights of every human being. For example, article 16, for those who do not understand Russian, in the original language, in the national language, in the language of notary business: "Notary business in Ukraine is carried out in the national language." And article 14, the language of the judiciary, which says that judicial action in Ukraine is carried out in the national language. I find it difficult to talk to people who are blind and do not understand what a task is to protect human rights. Even better, when you read the article entitled, article 20, "Language of education": "Citizens of Ukraine are guaranteed the right to receive education in the national language." And these screams, unknown legal ones, did not even get tired of reading these sacred words about the protection of Ukrainian national language. And article 20, paragraph 7, on language and education says, "In all general secondary schools, public language is provided!" And the article on the language of the Armed Forces of Ukraine number 29 says: "The language of statutes, documentation, business, teams and other statutory communication in the Armed Forces of Ukraine is the state language!" So, please tell me, what do these screams want? They want to ignore our English national language! There they are, thieves! Shame on them, shame on our comrades! They help us to care for them. So for the national language to be protected, we proposed a bill that protects the language of our nation. And they won't accept it. And what can such criminals be called? But they don't belong in our Supreme Council. Because they are people who want to steal our national word. And then there's these little notes that say. People are good! If the Ukrainian nation is so great if it is so rich if it is so common, will this great Ukrainian nation allow a small number of people whose native language is not Ukrainian to be allowed to learn in a regional language other than national language? Will that greatness give these little merchants of their children the opportunity to raise their children in kindergartens in their own language? Will this great nation, the Ukrainian nation, give children the opportunity to learn, apart from the national language, in their native language? Will this great Ukrainian nation give the Ukrainian people the opportunity to fulfil their obligations to the European community and finally to protect the rights of all people, to ensure the human right in our country to have not only the opportunity to communicate, but also to speak, hear, receive information, among other things, for which he pays the expenses. Because these people, for whom Ukrainian language is not a national language, cherish this national language and no one forbids it. So we've seen this show of greatness when the Ukrainian great nation gives these people who are building the Ukrainian state, who are building it, who are keeping it at their expense, and they're allowed to communicate in a regional language, in their own language, so that they can say to their children: their own son or their own daughter, I know that we live in that country that protects the rights of all people, and I know that we live in a country where fascism and Nazism will never be. I suggest you leave and leave all this nonsense behind and support the bill on the protection of national language and allow people to learn, talk, communicate and receive information in their own regional language. Thank you very much, dear fellows, for the opportunity to speak up to the Ukrainian people and to encourage them to support people for their rights and for the rights of their people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to the reporter. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. What's 10, 15, how much do you need? 15. It'll be 15. Yuri Baldirev, please. 8: 13:39
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u66	Honorable Rapporteur! Please indicate whether this bill has been reviewed by the Institute of Language of the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences? Whether the views of Ukrainian archaeologists were taken into account. The historians who studied the development of the ancient Russian language in Ukraine? Because we know that the mother of Russian cities is certainly Kiev, as is Ukrainian. This is illustrated by the graffiti written on the walls of Sofia Kiev, our main shrine from the 11th and 14th centuries. Has such an examination been carried out? And what assessment did your bill receive? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u67	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u68	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, this expertise has not been done, but I think the whole of Ukraine and the entire world community knows that the first books in Ukraine were printed in Lviv by a well-known publisher of Fedor in Old-Slavian. But we do have a recommendation from the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, which recommends that the Ukrainian authorities ensure as soon as possible the adoption of a new language law that takes full account of Ukraine's linguistic diversity, and that representatives of minority groups, NGOs and the general public be involved at all stages of this process. I would like to point out that, before this bill was drafted, almost all Ukrainian national and cultural minorities were involved, which was addressed to both the OSCE and the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u69	Ivan Plush, the MP's group "Reforms for the Future."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u70	Romanyuk, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u71	May I have the floor to the representative of Chechtov?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u72	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u73	Dear Vadim Vasilevich! Indeed, if the person who listened to your statement was in the hall, whether the journalists on the balcony listened very carefully, and even I saw, recorded, commented. And the radio audience, and the TVs on the red thread of your speech, were that in this law you protect above all the state status of the only national Ukrainian language. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the first one. This is understandable to all, but it is not clear to the crowd of these parliamentarians, who are incomprehensible for what reason they are gathered near the rostrum. I have one question. Do you think this law will receive the support of the European community or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u74	Kolesnicka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u75	Thank you for asking. Indeed, the adoption of the bill was very difficult. I will remind you that I am the head of the coordination board of the Organization of Russian compatriots of Ukraine. So these organizations don't support this bill because they only need one Russian language to be state language. However, we are based on reality and we are based on the Constitution, so this bill has been thoroughly examined by the Venice Commission, which has generally supported the bill. Moreover, the Venice Commission has written that it supports the right direction, both in terms of which, and its position, which is more balanced and benefits from the fuller use of linguistic diversity. That's the first one. Second. The European Human Rights Committee secretariat and the European Parliament Regional Language Charter secretariat supported the bill. Moreover, it states that Ukraine does not fully implement the Charter of Regional Languages in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u76	Irina Heratschenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I don't think any of us have any questions about the big Russian chauvinists and the provocateurs gathered in this room. But I want to talk to Ukrainian journalists. Dear colleagues, please ask these defenders of the Russian language when they last read any Russian book. Do they know where the Russian Drama Theatre is in Ukraine, or do they just before the elections tear up these Kosovarkas on themselves to show that they are the protectors of the language they know, the status of the Czech Museum in Crimea, or were they at the last in the Bulhakov Museum in Kiev, do they know that Ahmetova destroyed that museum? And I really want to go to all the Ukrainian voters today, especially those who speak Russian. I don't think there's anyone in this country who doesn't realize that people who don't know the real name of Anna Ahmatova, Ahmatova, and not Ahmeta's who don't know what ties her to Kiev, but they do have little to do with the real protection of Russian. These are absolute provocations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u78	Please, Koleschenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u79	Dear colleagues! You know, I wouldn't recommend dealing with issues that you don't really understand or understand because the issue of the Czech Republic Museum in Crimea is being dealt with by the Russian Crimea community, which is being dealt with by the Supreme Council of Crimea and by our deputies, the regions that provide money for its renovation. So look at you. That's the first one. And the second. Of course, I would have been surprised because I read in Ukrainian just 10 minutes ago that the bill was intended to protect the Ukrainian language as a national language. There is not a single word in this bill on the protection of the Russian language. The question is why people don't hear basic things. The answer is very simple: Not only can they not read in Russian, they do not even know how to read in national language. Because that's what I said in the bill on the principles of state language policy. I'm very sorry for these people, and I think they're, well, a little bit cured of their fanaticism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! We've considered Bill 9073 and we have two bills left, they're alternate, 9714, 9714-1. Please, who will report Bill 9714? The authors are Koleschenko and Lutsky. Who will report? Kolechenko? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u81	Dear colleagues! The bill, edited by Koleszenko, Lutko, is a little narrower and deals with this problem in a narrow context. We therefore believe that the second draft is an alternative, which has been prepared by the same colleagues, Mohort and Samoylik, and is more broad and more suited to the requirements of the day. Therefore, I propose that my bill be withdrawn from consideration and not wasted time on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u82	Bill 9714-1. Authors – Samoylik, Kurilo, Baranov-Mohort. Who will report? Catherine Seminal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u83	I'll report it. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I have a bill called "The Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Preschool Education." [[on the organization of the educational process]] But if that's the subject, I'll report it, and I've been asked to do it by my colleague Kurilo, and my colleague Baranov-Mohort. I want to say right now that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education has asked Vadim Kolesnick to withdraw his bill because our bill is absorbing, including the positions that Vadim Koleshnenko is proposing. And he said yes. We are truly grateful for this on behalf of the copyright group. Individually, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision on the results of the first reading of the bill, and we know that there is a observation by the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we'll take them into account by the second reading. Basically. The bill is intended to address important aspects of the work of pre-school institutions and to provide legislative conditions to increase equal access to pre-school education for children of appropriate age. And I want to emphasize this again, because we know that we have 5 years of compulsory preschool education and the first link to basic education, and so it's very important to create all the conditions that are necessary for the work of children's preschools. The first point that we're focusing on and setting up in law is the creation and discovery of different types of preschool schools, groups, including even custom rooms. Because we know that we have some brigade villages left where there's no good kindergarten, and so we suggest that even in the adapted facilities we can organize the work of one of the preschool groups. Also, the creation of inclusive groups for early corrective work. By the way, we're being targeted, really, by all the documents that we're getting from European institutions. We know that we have a lot of children with disabilities, so we suggest that if children with language disorders, or other disorders, other defects are available to open up special groups in preschools. In fact, this practice has always existed in Soviet times where specialized groups have been established, where children have been drawn to the level of those children who have normal levels of development. Well, who can be against that? I have just arrived from the committee of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of the SND countries, where this issue has been discussed, and the question has been raised that we should work out a law that could be used by any country. The other one. We propose in the bill to provide free nutrition in preschool schools for children who have reached the age of five and six. I don't think anyone's going to be able to resist that, and someone's going to vote against that. This question is long overdue. In addition, the introduction of compulsory health care for children in preschool educational institutions for preschool education. With regard to medical care, we know that at the time of the destruction of preschool facilities, a medical escort was virtually destroyed. We make sure that this bill requires health care for children, as well as pre-school pre-school software. We know that preschool education is the first line of education for children to learn and be raised in play, but to do so, we need to bring about the appropriate software for preschool education, including for those groups of children with disabilities. We're clarifying the age period for preschool children. Why do we also ask to support this? Well, kids used to go to first grade when they were seven years old, and now they're six years old, and we're forced to bring age-appropriate periodization into line with them, to meet the national cultural and educational needs of citizens by establishing at the legislative level the right of parents to choose the language of child learning and upbringing, especially in places where national minorities live compactly. In fact, we have this practice and especially many such kindergartens or groups in Western Ukraine, in Romanian, in Hungarian, in Polish and in Hebrew. Our bill is not an alternative; it covers all the proposals proposed in the above-mentioned bill, including the extension of basic tasks and principles of pre-school education on the accessibility of pre-school education in regional and minority languages. Ensure that parents are free to choose the language of parenting and change their age, psychological and social status. These proposals are supported in practice by the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, the National Academy of Teaching Sciences of Ukraine. They support this bill and believe that this bill is on time today. But there's a note from the Ministry of Finance. But we don't have any drafts where the Ministry of Finance won't give us any notice. And the observation is also from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Once again, both the committee and the drafters of the bill are willing to work with experts in such a way that the observation of the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is taken into account in the second reading. We propose, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the drafters of the bill urge you to consider in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Preschool Education, introduced by the People's Deputies of Samojlik, Kurilo and Baranov. [[on the organization of the educational process]] take the basis and unlock the issue of preschool education in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, please sign up for Catherine Samuel. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u85	Dear Ekaterina Semenovna, it is difficult to find any arguments that might have challenged the logic of your statement. Indeed, we also believe that we must create and adopt laws that enhance the comfort of life in the country, people of different nationalities, different religious views. This is both in the humanitarian field and in the religious, linguistic, cultural, scientific and other fields. From that point of view, in your view, the adoption of your law will add to the comfort of life to people of other nationalities the same as everyone else, and I will not accept the word of the Home Nation. The titular nation, reminds me of Germany in 1933. So is it to create comfortable conditions for everyone else or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u86	Microphone, Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u87	Thank you so much for asking. Dear Mikhail Vasilevich! Dear colleagues! Of course, the adoption of this legislation, in my view, will only contribute to the respect of our State's highest legislative body, which has risen above its political ambitions. It will help bring together our peoples and Romanians and Bulgarians and Hungarians and Poles and Jews and Russians, all of them Ukrainian people. And, of course, by this bill, we have come to the point of solving pre-school education issues, and I think, believe me, after our vote, many of you will receive letters and telegrams in gratitude for what you think about the future of our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u88	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u89	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Catherine Seed! I've read both of the bills that are currently under consideration on this bill of the Law on the Principles of State Language Policy and your bill amending the Law on Preschool Education. I don't see, for example, alternatives in these bills, and I don't know what they've put in there. But that's not the point. I understand that you, personally, as an experienced parliamentarian and a group of those national MPs who have been preparing the bill to study the experience of other countries, are referring to both the SND countries and the Western European countries on this issue. Please tell me, is there any other savages like the Ukrainian Parliament forbidding children to be raised in their own language? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u90	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u91	I want to give you an example from experience. I was born in a Russian - speaking village. But there were five hours of Russian every week and four hours, sorry, five hours of Russian literature and four hours of Ukrainian literature. Six hours were Russian and five hours were Ukrainian. And who's going to tell me today that I don't speak Ukrainian when I grow up in this, you know, Russian village? It all depends on how the State reacts to this sensitive issue. Then conditions were created for the language to develop alongside the national language, then it was called "international communication language." And I'm proud to have learned at a time when conditions were created for me to know both one and the other, and poorly another third foreign language.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u92	Yes. Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u93	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. The reporter, an unarmed eye, shows that the Russian language is the dominant language of the situation today in Ukraine. Newspapers of 68 percent in Russian, magazines 89, books 87, and television channels of 58 percent. So essentially, it's the Ukrainian language that needs protection in the Ukrainian state. But your team is working with the hebelic methods. And under the impression that you're protecting the languages of a national minority, you're pushing for the Russians. And you're covered in the European Charter of Regional Languages. But this charter is designed to protect the vanishing languages, not to assert the domination of the powerful, which is directly Russian. Today we have a situation where you say that this language, this project has a good conclusion in scientific circles.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u94	Please, Catherine Seed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u95	Comrade, my dear fellow! I've never covered for anything in my life. One day I'll have no cover and no protectors. And as for the Russian language, you probably don't know the statistics. The winners of our Olympics are children from Sevastopol, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Luhansk, Donetsk. You don't know very well the real state of things. But what we need to create conditions for every person, whatever nationality she is, is to make her feel comfortable in this country, because she's respected as well as Ukrainian -- so respect both Romanian and Czech, and Pole! That's what we need to do, not savagery!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u96	Dear colleagues! The questions have been answered. For my report, I invite the head of the committee of Vladimir Yavorowski. For all the bills, please take 15 minutes. Please turn on the stand microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u97	Dear voters! Dear Ukrainians! Especially are those who listen to what is happening today in the so - called Ukrainian Parliament! Dear fellows! My dear fellows in opposition, who courageously stood up for our most important national sanctuary, is the Ukrainian language! I would like to remind the voters first of all that today's amazing festival is the Ascension celebrated by Ukraine. And today, in many parts of the Ukraine, souls are remembered, and those souls, millions, billions, perhaps those souls who protected the Ukrainian language, carried it on their mouths and in their hearts. Today, according to a colossal paradox and a dramatic paradox today, the Day of English, English, English, and English. So, dear voters, you now understand very well that this House of Parliament has a horde with no honor or conscience, which is why they have raised these questions on this very day. Now for the bill. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality unanimously proposes that the bill be rejected. [[One committee member held on to everything]] The name is the most important, fundamental, fundamental reasons why the committee has made such a decision that the bill is not possible in any way. I want to tell you that this is a question, a language question that is raised on a very false, lying base. At the base they took those who wanted to hold bilingual language in Ukraine, they took the Charter of European Languages as a base. I want to inform those who are now listening to us that this is falsely done because the ratification of this charter has not been accepted as an official translation. No document passes unless there is an official translation with a seal and certified in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the time, Medvedchuk was translated into an amateur translation, where the word "minoritarian" was actually deleted, it was not there, only in the regional languages. This is where they build their ideology. I was able to get an official translation of this paper with the seals in it, the name that translated it, because he's responsible for it, it's Mr. Sibezha and Berszów Alexander Volodymyrovich. I have this bill. I'll read you two literally first-page quotes and you'll understand. I'm reading. "According to the fact that the protection of the historic regional or minority languages of Europe, some of which are threatened with extinction over time, contributes to the preservation and development of cultural wealth and traditions of Europe." That's what this paper is about. I want to remind you that of the 47 countries in Europe that join the Council of Europe today, only 7 countries have ratified this charter. It was not ratified by Russia, which would have had to do so, for the language of many of these national minorities is literally wiped out. This charter was not ratified by the developed countries, so he set it up to ratify it. I want to state that if we had a normal Constitutional Court, we would now be transferred to a court that accepted a false charter. The Constitutional Court would have established the truth brilliantly. But you know we don't have that possibility because we don't have that court. Let's move on. A bill was introduced, which was very much mentioned in the forehead about the introduction of a second national language — Russian. You know, it's Simonenko, Greenewsky and Ephraim. You know that the stone on the stone, the international structures responsible for these things, our internals didn't leave it on this bill, because it absolutely violates the 10th article of the Constitution. Instead, as they were thrown out the door, they now climb out the window. What's the matter? They want it to be as if they are not talking about the Russian language, the basic idea of why it was written. It is a matter of introducing a second national language in some regions with ten percent of the language of a minority. And now let's think about it, it's all done under the lynx6 "Ah! How we love national minorities and things like that!" I'm asking, what kind of national minority can take that 10 percent today? One. And secondly, who's going to set these 10 percent, the authorities, theirs, today? We can say today that even the Crimean Tatars at some border in Crimea, some might have this percentage, and the rest, I'm talking to them, not in Zakarpata Hungary, not even the Romanians in Bukovina, I'm not talking about other national minorities, they're never going to get that 10 percent. Who can choose the language that can be used? You understand, only Russian! Now, please count the same Crimea, count Herson, count Lugansk, Doneck, Odessa, Mikolai, Kharkiv. A large part of Ukraine will be bilingual. Can you imagine this state being torn apart by another language mark? Can you understand that? Moreover, it is even suggested that passports be different, in that language, in that language. I ask, is there any national minority today who can offer to Ukraine as a state today any claim that someone is not allowing it there? Today’s legislation, and Ukraine, by the way, is recognized as one of the most liberal countries that deals with national minorities. Let's move on. I'm saying once again, it's all based on a big fake. Here's the answer to this bill that we got from the European Commission for Democracy through law or the Venice Commission. This is what the European Commissioner writes about this same bill, and he says, "This bill of the Law on the Principles of State Language Policy is clearly based on the previous law, the draft law. It confirms to a very large extent the position of the previous project and contains numerous positions that are being played out of the old text." Here's the conclusion of the outsider, who. It's not like it's our cute guy or anything. So this is the conclusion. What's more, I want to show you, too, you know, that the member of the Venice Commission is Marina Stavniczuk, co-worker of today's Presidential Administration. It would seem, well, she should be with them, she spoke boldly and said, "The Venice Commission has criticised the language bill." And she says, "We need to preserve the integration role of Ukrainian as the only national language." It's published in The Day. This is Stavniczuk, a member of the Venice Commission, by the way. Let's move on. This is what the High Commissioner writes in matters of national minorities, the OSCE, Knut Wallebek. Listen to what he writes: "In my opinion, the new draft law does not regulate the use of languages in Ukraine in such a way as to maintain a balance between the interests of different communities or to promote the integration and stability of Ukrainian society. My guess is, "This bill can intensify, not reduce the tension between the media of different languages, and deepen the existing division in society, and then it's counterproductive to stabilize Ukrainian society." I repeat, this is written by Knut Walliebek, on which, by the way. Koleszenko, I am happy that I did not hear him speak, but I guess he spoke here in those half hours, in whose name he began to demand, Koleszenko, the release of Wallebek. Can you imagine letting this man go? We apologized, by the way, for Christmas Eve before him. I'd like to say more. All of our internal expert structures, which are, are all actually against this law. The chariot is faked. I'm giving you one particular example. I have here a document signed by the president of the Kyiv National University of Shevchenka Bougrove. There's no form, there's nothing, there's just a stamp. And Bugrov seems to support this bill. But when he learned that he himself had written it, a group of top philosophers, professors at the National University of Shevchenka spoke in the press about the fact that the speaker had no right, the issue was not discussed. They were on our committee yesterday. Yesterday they published this letter on "Ukrainian Truth" and so on. I can even prove here what was provoked, as if national minorities were supporting this bill. When we learned that they had their clones, they had official and unofficial representatives of national minorities, so he collected them and collected them. Moreover, I'll tell you that the same prophet, look, he doesn't write on the Head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, and he answers them, the People's Deputies of Kiwalov and Koleschenka. I want to say that in fact today all the conclusions we have, all these conclusions warn Ukrainian leadership, warn the party that is in power today, not to go out with this issue today. Because, again, I repeat, this bill is actually aimed at, let's say, bringing the articles of the Constitution into the Ukraine of bilinguality. Because of this, I am convinced that there is a reason not to vote today. But I'm talking to people today, first of all, to let them know, because I really understand that there are moods here to read. I want to tell Mr. Wheeler myself. If you vote for this bill, and he, God forbid, will pass, I tell you again, in Ukraine, do you know what will change? One thing is, people are gonna be yelling, "Get out of the gang!"and a gang out!".. That might be the end of it. Because I want to say that this bill is totally unacceptable, it can't be accepted. I address those who are still hesitant today. I find it hard to imagine, for example, how my colleague, whom I have long known, Peter Pisarczuk will vote. And what I want to say to you is, remember, by pressing this "for" button today, you're going to be in one row with Valyev on the blacklist. You'll be in the same line with Suslov. Your names, believe me, will be cursed by our children if you vote for it. And they'll turn over in the grave, they'll tell me. I'm just asking you to take your conscience back to the x-ray and see what you're doing, what you're voting for. Is there a problem with Russian today in Ukraine? Russian language flourishes in these areas. And I would point out once again, if I were in Russian power, that would clear up Ukrainian power and most of the Russian language that drives it into a stereotype of language that is threatened with extinction. Can you imagine that? And they're driven here. The Russian language that thrives today, which is the language of political communication, is the working language of politics. It's all there is. So it's a mockery, if you want, even cynicism, and in the attitude of the Russian language itself. And to the Russians that we honor and among them, by the way, there are a lot of people who support us. Absolutely. That's why I'm saying, I'm convinced that someone who was driven out today, and we know that you were picked up, that you were scared by that. That you will not be on the lists or that you will not be supported in the elections, but remember: Your conscience is above all else! There are things you can never sell. And one of them is language. And the last. I still have a few minutes. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I am asking you, especially to let our electorate know how we are voting today in the middle-empty room how this bill is going to be voted on. Who's gone? Let me quickly read: there's no Bagres, there's no Brezna, there's no Vesewsky, there's no Vásadze, there's no Volkov, there's no Geller, there's no Head, there's no Drought, there's no Zvegilski, there's no Ivanyushchenka. What Ivanyushenko writes together and Victor Yushchenko separately, I don't understand. There is no Cloak, there is no Leather, there is no Fox, there is no Melnik, there is no Amethov, there is no Berezkin, there is no God - fearing, there is no Mountain, there is no Demyanko, there is no Igor. The mountain is, I apologize. I want to say again, this is the fourth hour data when the session opened. The mountain appeared, I apologize. There is no Kinakh, there is no Litwinov, there is no Lionfly, there is no Mkhtaryan, there is no Sigalah, there is no Scudder, there is no Feldman, there is no Yankovsky, there is no Popescu, there is no Shrub. It was four o'clock, and now it's just Gorina, and I apologize to her again, and by four o'clock, there were no more than 100 people in the regions. What vote for responsible things? It's actually a constitutional law and you want to vote by pressing all these buttons that are there. I don't think that's gonna happen. Because of that, they'll say again: gang out!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for a question to a co-conspirator. Dear colleagues, the lines are all in the end, I beg of you. Three minutes, please log in. Mikola Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u99	Mr. Volodymyr, let me remind you of the words of Alexander the Great, the need for any denationalization that leads to the desolation and depopulation of man. So this authority today needs a desolate and depraved Ukrainian person without Ukrainian language, without cultural knowledge, this is the beginning of the restoration of the policy of national captivity of Ukrainians. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u100	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u101	Well, my position, my position hasn't changed throughout my entire political biography, but I did. It's not me, it's just that today most absolutely Ukrainians, and if we really had the courage to hold a referendum and close that question, I have no doubt that if people were to be properly explained before the referendum, we would have, well, at least 70 percent for the support of a single national Ukrainian language. With what we give the opportunity, the state, I mean, allows all national minorities, their theaters, their literature, their culture and so on. Because of that, of course, today you know what you said, and not Putin himself, but Putin's wife said, "Where Russian ends, Russia ends." And Koleschenko wants Russia to end up in the Ukrainian under the house, under the windows somewhere, and so forth. As a result, of course, we reap, reap from the great problems of the Rusification, which took place for three hundred and fifty years and which was in the twentieth century, you already know that in the Ukrainian language where people were taken, so on. Because of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u102	Jaroslav Jojik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u103	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Mr. Vladimir, according to the drafters, they have received support from the scientific circles of Ukraine. You've completely reasoned with them for a complete lie. Independent journalistic research has also shown that people who allegedly supported this bill, they either don't know it or they don't want to talk about it at all. Can a person say that, even if he did sign it without coercion, sign it because it is his position? Of course not. Do you not see here a parallel with what happened in Ukraine in 1939 when hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian families were taken away after the reunification and there were people talking about the liberation of Western Ukraine? Do you not think that today’s authorities are acting completely?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u104	Answer. In my speech, I appealed to expert institutions that have legal grounds for doing so. Because I call you, I named the example of the University of Kiev, but the Institute of State and Law -- someone doesn't believe their conclusions? – who actually thinks that this bill can't be adopted in any way. What's more, I didn't say, the Ministry of Finance is absolutely against you, because they understand that this is a colossal money that will have to be translated from one language to another in one area or another: lawyers, unions. I don't know what Koleschenko's talking about. Priests, by the way. Because of this, all those who are the major charms, the chains of society, and the people who understand it, everyone believes that this bill cannot be adopted. What's more, Mr. Joyce, I'm saying once again, neutral people, the same Wallebeck, you see how he specifically defined that this would be a destructive law that would work. But who in this country is listening? They promised to hear everyone, and they were deaf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the factions. From factions. It's recorded from factions. Bodnar, Caplienko, Koleschenko, Cibenko, Jojik. Please sign up for the National MPs. Put your names on the board. 30 minutes, please, give me the time. Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u106	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street. Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u107	Viacheslav Kirilenko. The next one will be the Chaplain. Six minutes from the factions, please. From the BUT faction and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u108	Viacheslav Kirilenko, a united opposition. Dear colleagues, if it's all right, it's all right. There is a reference to human rights, see what the High Commissioner for Human Rights writes in paragraph 34 of the Supreme Commissioner for National Minorities, which is precise, "recommends the Ukrainian authorities accordingly to refrain from considering the draft Law on Languages from 2011 in its present form, precisely from this. Here's the first position of the highest structure in Europe on protection of the rights of national minorities. We are now being argued for the destruction of the Ukrainian language as if it were the interests of national minorities. See what the Commission on "Democracy through Law" or the Venice Commission writes, this is the Commission on Legislation and Human Rights Number One in Europe, everyone recognizes it. Finally, the question remains whether the draft Law corresponds to article 10 of the Constitution. The Venice Commission recalls in this context the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of December 14, 1999. It seems questionable to the Venice Commission that the parallel use of national language and regional and minority languages, attention, and mainly Russian language, in significant areas of social life, and not only at the local level, can be considered to be used in accordance with article 10 of the Constitution. That is, the High Commissioner for National Minorities and the Venice Commission clearly point to the conclusion that the proposed bill of subjects who had just reported directly contradict article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Next, what do our experts write? You think language is just sounds, it's just those who speak Ukrainian, some of them may hate most of them, but you don't know that language has an integration function for the state. Neither the power nor the opposition nor the East, nor the West without language can have its own independent state. Please don't believe the conclusion of the Kuras Institute, which was founded and led by Ivan Fedorovich Kuras, the Institute of Political and Ethnic Studies, is not even an institution of Ukrainian language that you don't trust, not an institution of linguistics of the National Academy of Sciences that has given negative conclusions. And this is the Institute of Political Research. He concludes: "Let us note that the main flaw in today's bill, as well as its predecessors, is the anticipated expansion of the possibilities for Russian to a level that in many cases exceeds the level of use of Ukrainian and will have a detrimental impact on its functioning." This is proof that you do not care for national minorities by law, but you do care for the destruction of the Ukrainian language. I quote from the Kuras Institute of Political Research: "This makes the bill unacceptable for the further development of Ukrainian as a national language," and this is your actual task, and I quote: "and therefore not compromising and politically confrontational," which we remind you of. I quote, "In addition, the inaccuracy of many of the laws will mean, if implemented, the possibility of arbitrary interpretation by officials and the complexity of the protection of their rights by citizens," which we have also repeatedly told you about. I quote: "At last, full implementation of all the rules of the bill would require attention! the huge cost of translating documentation and oral language from the national language into regional and vice versa. And the preparation of a sufficient number of translations and experts, which have sufficient scope for the regional language project, reminds me of 18 of them, and most of them now have very limited circulation in Ukraine," well, apart from Russian, which, of course, will be given priority by the adoption of this law. [[officials of executive authorities, judges, teachers, etc.]] And I conclude by quoting the Institute of Political Research: "In this way, the bill is not acceptable for consideration. Nothing but the further destruction of political passions from its introduction into the session room is worth waiting for." Deputy Director of the Maybear Institute. This isn't the Institute of Language and English. These are people who look at all aspects. Because you don't trust the Institute of Ukrainian Language and Language. Why? Because that's where everyone speaks English. So you don't think this department of the National Academy of Sciences can be trusted. It's a major flaw. Under regional language display, you give de facto state status only to Russian. Because only in almost all areas will it acquire more than 10 percent of the language environment, and 2 other languages and two parts of Ukraine will get this figure with difficulty – Hungarian and Crimean. That's the main purpose of this law! It's kind of like following the Ukrainian language and de facto making it a state of Russian. No national minorities are actually spoken of in this bill. They're being used. In contrast, it is demeaningly used to handle foreign political tasks. And last of all, it's very important. Our experts have counted, and we have also applied to the departments of the Academy of Sciences. So if I follow, I'm 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u109	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u110	So, if you follow what the Institute of Political Research has said, in the literal implementation of this law, the cost of implementing this law is more than all the money that Ukraine has already spent on Euro-2012! Up to 5 billion dollars worth of this law! What kind of social initiatives do you talk about when you make fools of everyone to do things and upset the public? Take this law off! We urge the patriots not to vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u111	Vladimir Caplienko, Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u112	Deputies! Respectable Ukrainian citizens! On behalf of and on behalf of the MP's "Reform for the Future" Group, I have the honour to express our position with regard to the draft Law 9073. We're all different. We have different life positions and that's natural. But we are the national deputies of Ukraine! And we have the only ideological position on language politics in the state. The MPs of the Reformation for the Future will under no circumstances support the changes in social relations that occur in the application of Ukrainian languages if, in their essence, they prevent the approval and functioning of Ukrainian national languages. [[Applause]] This is the attempt made by the bill. That's what we're getting out of. There is no problem of language in the population of Ukraine! This topic is artificially heated and leads to polarization of society! In doing so, the principle of free language self-determination as defined in this bill is not established either by the Constitution of Ukraine or by international legal acts or by the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of National Minorities or by the Charter of Regional or Minority Languages. Article 5 of this law states, think of the state as contributing to the development of multilingualism, with the first part of the 7 articles strengthening the approval of the multilingual State. Article 7 provides for a 10 - percent regional language status to be declared. Excuse me, Your Honor, if it is predicted that the status of the regional language, which is required for all authorities of the state, local authorities and even physical citizens, is foreseen for the decision of local councils to be up to 10 percent, we can actually create a regional language minority in accordance with this law by any percentage, even half percent. That's impossible. The following article 10 or article 11 provides for the very priority of Russian over others. Read this bill carefully. Article 20 provides for the granting to educational institutions all rights to restrictions on Ukrainian, meaning national, language. Private higher education institutions make decisions about national language for their own reasons. Ukrainian language will no longer be compulsory even in public and municipal educational institutions. What is the value of this bill? We think it's over 3 billion a year. This law is really about creating problems for the Ukrainian language, which means Ukraine. Every MP in the "Reforms for the Future" group is defending the interests of Ukraine and our state. Praise the English language! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u113	Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u114	Chetnut, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u115	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u116	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, when you meet with voters, you start to realize that the foundation of wisdom is not sedentary men in parliamentary or ministerial robes on the shoulders, but the foundation of wisdom is a simple working people, because wisdom comes from the east, from the earth, from life itself. I recall a meeting in one of the factories where there were 350 workers without higher education, and the only person with higher education was the head of the factory. After quite a long time. I'd say an emotional encounter started with questions. And at the end of the day, he asks the question of a factory veteran, a veteran of the plant. He says: "Mr. MP, answer one question. Here are two deputies, two ministers, two businessmen, two doctors, two teachers, two soldiers, two drivers, two metalsmiths. One speaks English, the other speaks Russian. They understand each other very well. Say, say, please, respectable MP, who are the two fools? [[B in m in s a l in]] I didn't know how to answer that. He says, "It's not a fool who speaks Ukrainian and a fool who speaks Russian. And the fool who begins to teach another, in what language must he speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then he said, ‘O my Lord! We don't need to be taught what church we go to! You don't have to teach us what language to speak! You don't have to teach us what shirt to wear! Give us a chance to decide for ourselves." So I'm definitely against us giving up some kind of titular nation! We don't have second-rate citizens in the country! [[B in m in s a l in]] Be a Jew, be a Romanian, be a Tatar, be a Ukrainian, are all the same. I am categorically opposed to having Jews, Tatars, Romanians bet less than the representatives of the title nation. We were 33 years old, history remembers how fascism began. So, you see, we're going to Europe! So let's look at Switzerland! And why is there the highest standard of living? That's why people live very friendlyly. In small Switzerland, every canton has its own language. Four public languages! And let us model the situation, and tomorrow we will discuss the transition to the same language in Switzerland. It will descend below Ukraine in economic terms tomorrow! Therefore, today's document, presented by Koleszenko, protects the Ukrainian language as a single national language. On the other hand, it allows representatives of other nationalities: Jews, Romanians, Tatars, vengeres to feel comfortable in Ukraine, not representatives of any other nationality and second-class people. We suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u117	Finish up, please. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u118	We propose to vote in favour of the Wadim Kolesnik Act, which on the one hand protects the status, state status of the Ukrainian language and, on the other hand, creates comfortable conditions for people of other nationalities and places them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u119	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Baldirev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u120	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, today there is a great deal of emotion in this room. It's natural. Unnaturally, it is unnatural that deep study of the subject and its professional discussion of how it would be from such an important, emotional issue and sensitive problem is replaced by the method of the field. Who's snarling at the rostrum today? Those who dream of Europe day and night. What are they playing against? But they are against a bill based on European language practices. I mean, they're actually speaking out against their own European choice for Ukraine today. Our colleagues present at the rostrum are very often fond of talking, discussing human rights. And the language question is that it's not human rights? Is that not a language abuse? What is the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine? We will support Bill No. 9073, author of which is Vadim Koleshnenko. But not because he solves the language problem in Ukraine. Unfortunately, he does not solve the language problem in Ukraine, but this bill is a step forward in the right direction. And that's why we're going to support him. The faction of the Ukrainian Company in this regard is quite consistent. We stand in the position, like most of our voters, that there should be two national languages in Ukraine: Ukrainian and Russian. Today, there are more than 40 countries in the world, where there are between two and four national languages, and they are successfully developed. So once again, I want to emphasize that we are absolutely convinced and that we will do everything we can to make sure that there are two national languages in Ukraine: Ukrainian and Russian. That's how it's gonna be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u121	Yuri Baldiriev, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Kossov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! As I prepared for today, I found a book, two books by a well - known Ukrainian scientist named Vissky, published long before the issue became controversial. In 1966, a book entitled "The Ancient Russian inscriptions of the Kiev XIX century" was published and a book entitled "Medieval inscriptions of Sofia Kiev" was published in 1976. Both books were published by Science Thought in the city of Kiev. And this book contains graffiti from the walls of the XIXth century of the Council of Sofia. I will read some of them: "In the summer of 6,000 March 560 on the third day of December, the Fourth World was concluded in Žiljani Svetopolk, Vladimir and Oleg. On the ninth day of April, the ruler was appointed. At 6000 562 months of February, the 20th end of our king." These are the graffiti of the 11th century. Similar inscriptions refer to XI, XIII, and the 14th century. That is, the name of the months will not allow us to mistake the language of the inscriptions because we know that in Ukrainian the months are called other names. That is to say, since the 11th century, Kiev has undoubtedly been a native of modern Russian. This is not surprising because there was a single State from the Baltic Sea to Dnieper and to Volga to the east, in which they spoke about the same language, in dialects of the same ancient Russian language. All these people called themselves Russian. And so. This tradition has continued. A well-known Gatman Mazepa called himself the "Russian prince" in his letters to Carl HCP. Philip Orlik, when writing the Constitution, which is now considered the most ancient Ukrainian constitution, wrote: "We are the people of the Russian Greek faith. Our country is Little Russ. Our language is Cossack." This is a translation known to all of Emilian Pritzak, I think he can be trusted. Therefore, I think I should remove all this politicization and vote in favour of the Wadim Wheeler Act as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u123	Mikhailo Kosov. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u124	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. That's the question here, who's the fool?".. That's a very interesting question, because the point is, in the statements I have to hear here, there's a bright answer. But there is no such practice anywhere in Europe that the language of a national minority becomes a national language. There isn't! And if you say Switzerland, where there are 4 national languages, there are 4 peoples living there. 4 nations that have their own historical land, which have their own history. Of course, each of these nations uses its own national language and candaces, no doubt. You suggest that the protection of national minorities be offered. That lie is because no national minority and their language protects your law because you say that where there are 10 percent of the speakers of another language, that language becomes regional. What is the nationality of 10 percent? What, the Jews you're talking about, do they have any other nationalities? And the Poles don't have, and the Hungarians don't have, and the Romanians don't have. The only nationality that has 10 percent in all regions of Ukraine is Russian. So you are pronouncing Russian as the second national language in Ukraine. And one more thing. After all, none of those who are now blocking the rostrum are opposed to Russian as well as to any other national language. And the bill, which is proposed, does not apply to language, it applies to the state. And this law will divide the Ukrainian state into two parts: one state will be the Russian-speaking Ukraine, and the other part of the country will be the Ukrainian-speaking country. And this will inevitably ask the question that people are now talking about, that it will be a resistance that will not end in a peaceful way. This confrontation could end with a bloody collision, or the division of Ukraine into two parts -- that's what you're proposing to the Ukrainian state today. Surprisingly, this law you're proposing is all over criminal, it's not just anti-constitutional, it's criminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u125	Eugene Kzarkov, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u126	You know, I want to say from the example of the Odessa region, according to the 2001 census, we have 134 nationalities living in our area. For another vivid example, I will give a national composition in the Balgrad region of Odessa region: 60 per cent Bulgarians, gagauses 20 per cent, Russians 10, Ukrainians six, Albanians two and 65 per cent other nationalities. When we meet in Bograd, Bolgrad region or Odessa, we communicate in Russian everywhere, because Russian is now a constituency and it unites us and makes us think: why, when France or German or Eskimos meet in Europe, do they communicate in English, taking it into the language of international communication and no one accuses anyone of any expansion? Why, for example, does Argentina, which does not have its own language, speak Spanish and develop sufficiently effectively? I therefore call on the inhabitants of the Odessa region to take this matter seriously. Why? Because in post-Soviet space, you know, this language not only united the Odessa region or Ukraine, it brought together one sixth of the land. And when we go to the electorate's trains today, sometimes we meet an Armenian, a Georgian, a Tajik, an Azerbaijani, a Russian, a Jew, a Uzbek, and we all understand each other in the only language - Russian, in the congregation language. Because I can't and you can't learn all languages: both Armenian and Tajik, and really this language has a very important function. Petr Stepanović said and stated to our leader that, indeed, for us the programme is the maximum and normal programme of state status of the Russian language. But today, when the current power, including in Odessa, is large enough, two Russian schools are still in Odessa, and 95 per cent of the Russian population in Odessa is not normal. And you know, I don't understand one more thing, but today I'm at the buffet, Yavorivsky, Movcan are coming to the buffet and asking for Russian cheese and Moscow sausage in Russian, and they're getting it and they're not having any problems. Therefore, do not politicize this issue, and we will vote Odessa in favour of the Russian language.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u127	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u128	Please pass the word to Christmas Eve Wadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u129	Vadim Koleschenko. The next is John the Rabbit. Vadim Koleschenko, please. Turn on the microphone. Check the card. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u130	Thank you. I think it's a replacement for a minute that I still have to make a lineup. Dear voters, we've just been offered a bloodthirsty national fascist here. And I understand him. He'd like to shoot anyone who doesn't speak Ukrainian. It's obvious and obvious. What's even more surprising is that we already have a foundation for that. There are more than 80 laws in Ukraine prohibiting the use of any language other than Ukrainian. That's why you know, as they say, God didn't give the barbed cow antlers. Lord's sake, if these national fascists come to power, they'll hang each other. This is the problem for Ukraine. Therefore, without even supporting this very, very long-standing and very tolerant bill that protects the rights of Ukrainian citizens, these so-called figures encourage us to fight for the surrender of state status to the Russian language. And we understand this very well how this can end for the Ukrainian State. Because the lack of tolerance, tolerance and, in fact, the national Fascist ideology shown in this room can lead to this. For those who do not know how to read, I recall that the issue of the protection of human rights is key in our Constitution. The implementation of the bill would clearly protect the rights of the Romanian community, the Moldovan community, the Hungarian community, the Romanian, the Crimean Tatar and Moldovan communities. Because the place of distribution is not only the territory of the district but also the district and rural council. I understand why this nonsense is happening. To give them a machine gun, they'd shoot anyone who disagreed with them. Fortunately, we're not on our way. And the Ukrainian people will rid themselves of this increase, which prevents Ukraine from reforming and protecting the entire Ukrainian political nation. To those gentlemen who are unable to read documents, I recall that the Commission on Racism and Intolerance has once again stated that in Ukraine the level of xenophobia, human-hate racism is growing and that what we see today is the problem without which our State will not be able to solve and overcome. I think we can uphold our rights, I think we can prove to the people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-24-m1.u131	Dear National Deputies! In view of this situation, I close the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The evening session of the Supreme Council is closed.
