ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:51]] The 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be announced. Open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues: the Weaver of Roman, whose anniversary is 50 years old, let's welcome Arsenius Yatsenuk. [[Applause]] I ask you to welcome our colleagues and wish them success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you about the summary of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary between 15 and 18 May. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place, 135 issues of the agenda were discussed, as a result of their consideration: 30 laws and 46 regulations were passed, 32 bills and one draft decree were adopted, two bills were sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, five bills were returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 23 bills and one draft decree were rejected; three laws were passed, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, four laws were rejected, and 207 parliamentary motions were announced. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, we have considered 135 questions with you last plenary week. Much more legislation is available for this plenary week. And this tells us that we need the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to continue for at least 21 hours so that we can do what we have planned with you. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal, the thing that sounded on the Conciliation Council, to continue the evening session until the finalization of the issues set out in the schedule for Tuesday, May 22. Please vote. [[10:03:23]] For 224 Dear colleagues, I don't see what you're doing here. What, he doesn't want to? I understand that. I'm voting for a return to this proposal. Please vote. Dear colleagues, I take your cry as a crazy desire to work. Well, let's do it. Vote, please. [[10:04:00]] For 232 We're back on the subject. I am voting on the proposal to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the completion of the consideration of the issues set out in the May 22 schedule, that is, today. Please vote. [[10:04:27]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, 30 minutes are allocated on Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups and factions. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech. Yes, please, the names of the national MPs. Stepan Dávimuk, "BUT" faction. Who will act? Roman Zabzaluk, please. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow citizens! The Yulia Timoshenko faction, "The Fatherland", states: further delay in meeting the requirements of the PAREE resolution will inevitably lead to the final loss of the authority of Ukraine in the international arena and to the deep political and economic isolation of Ukraine. The brutal and arrogant reluctance of the current regime of Yanukovic and the Party of Regions to fulfil the commitments that Ukraine has made to the Council of Europe, the European Union, and the international agreements that our country has ratified will have irreversible processes and severe socio-economic consequences, primarily for the citizens of our country. During the reign of Victor Yanukovic, Ukraine was already in a very dangerous situation. During this period, there have been major deteriorations in the key areas of the functioning of the state, total corruption. In fact, in an anti-constitutional way, all social programs and citizens' rights have been suppressed, an independent judicial branch of power destroyed, de-blooded local budgets, law enforcement agencies converted into a repressive regime tool. Julia Timoshenko is a living example of Ukraine's lack of the rule of law, the presumption of innocence and independent justice. Anyone who has the courage to defend his rights can be thrown out without investigation and trial for playing. As today, the authorities with Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, and other representatives of the opposition forces do. That is why the Faction "BUT- "Paternity" insists on the immediate cessation of the regime's abuses against Yulia Timoshenko, the immediate admission of Yulia Timoshenko to parliamentary elections, the establishment of the TSC to investigate the resonant killings in 1995-1998, the murder of the national deputies Eugenia Szczerbany, Eugene Kushnarov, by the way, by those persons who are in power today. Against the background of the rapid poverty of the population, another so - called improvement in the lives of the Party of Regions is widespread corruption that has gripped and paralyzed all the spheres of our nation today. A corrupt and corrupt state apparatus, from its top, is the greatest evil for the country and the people. With total corruption and criminal occupation, there can be no prosperous society. Thus, we find that the authorities of Yanukovich are consistently and methodically building a totalitarian and corrupt country. That's why Julia Timoshenko and the opposition forces of Ukraine are urging all democratic and national patriotic movements in Ukraine to take action and in a constitutional way eliminate this criminal oligarchic power. To do this, it is now necessary, together, to start a major cleansing of the country from corruption, beginning with the first persons of the state. Public, including international, investigations into all corruption by representatives of today’s Ukrainian authorities need to be initiated. The Ukrainian people, the international community, should know about their financial abuse, the formation of property acquired illegally in the territory of other nations. Although Julia Timoshenko is in prison, she is heard by the world. She refers to all honest journalists, leaders of public movements, officials, forces and all concerned people to the fate of Ukraine to hand over to the representatives of the united opposition the materials of journalists and other investigations that clearly prove the international nature of the crimes of the ruling nation in Ukraine. Ukraine should and certainly be cleansed of criminal occupation, a democratic state, and a full member of European society. Juli will! The people of Ukraine will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u3	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u4	In two years of government, a respected compatriot turned Ukraine not only into the poorest country in Europe but also into a geopolitical reservation. The first Ukrainian authorities complain in one voice that Western Europe is demeaning Ukraine because European leaders do not go to the Yaltin summit and do not want to meet with Azarov in Brussels. But Europe is declaring a boycott not to Ukraine. The civilized world boycotts the power of Yanukovic, not Ukraine, but the authority that destroys democracy, imprisons opposition, and bathes itself in corruption. Not the West humiliates Ukraine and not the East, the greatest disgrace of our state is the present power and what it does with the country. It is a violent injustice in the distribution of social goods, an unconcealed cynicism of power, when 45 million Ukrainians are viewed only as the source of their profits. This is human injustice and total lawlessness. No wonder the President faced international isolation from the West. Strangely enough, he was surprised. So far, Europe has not imposed sanctions against the leadership of Ukraine. But this time can come very soon -- if you try to falsify the parliamentary elections. Westbound is a complete failure. As a result, geopolitical dances began in front of Russia, and the President rushed to Moscow for support. And he drove some kind of "white flag" -- a promise to ratify a free trade zone with the SND. Although the European Union has made it clear that the area of free trade with SND is not compatible with the area of free trade with the EU. Thus, the authorities are ready to finally block Euro-integration and throw themselves into Moscow’s arms. But no one likes the weak. Therefore, instead of cheap gas, Janukovic received only new requirements from Putin: the entrance to the Customs and Eurasian Unions and the surrender of the gas transport system. I've been given a new portion of international disgrace. The worst part is that the international isolation in which the Ukrainian authorities have been exposed is painfully beating the Ukrainians. The EU’s visa-free regime will no longer be promised. We're running out of international loans and investments. Not only in political but also in economic isolation, alone with the economic crisis. From this geopolitical stalemate there is only one way out -- to change that power. Only after that will prospects arise in Ukraine and our movement to Europe will be possible. The October 28 parliamentary elections will be the beginning of the fall of today’s regime. This election, on the one hand, will be led by the Party of Regions led by Yanukovič, Azarov and its satellites, and on the other hand a powerful united opposition: "The Fatherland", "The Change Front" and a series of parties that have joined together to send the current regime to the history dump. The united opposition has a change plan for Ukraine and offers an alternative. It is based on simple and understandable concepts of a normal person’s worth of life. Our program is already being presented for public discussion. We will implement it with you and with your support, your countrymen of honor, justice must prevail and it will prevail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u5	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! Respectable citizens! On behalf of and on behalf of the MP's "Reform for the Future" faction, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adaptation of EU standards and requirements and the concern about external policy and the external security of citizens should not be a cover for non-professional or openly lobbying legislative work in these walls. Among the issues to be considered for this plenary week were two identical drafts aimed at implementing the National Plan of Action for Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine. [[Registration numbers 10381 and 9592]] However, draft Law 10381 is surprisingly repetitive in almost complete terms of a government bill that was not included in the agenda two months ago. Probably because the purpose of visa liberalisation was to cover up completely other hidden goals for us. We are ideologically convinced that draft Law 10381 leads us wrongly and cannot become a basic act in the area of liberalization of the action plan. A few arguments, four of them. The first argument. Although Europe requires limited implementation of Ukraine's documentation to go abroad with an electronic biometric information medium without changing other internal documents and without the introduction of a separate special law. As a result, domestic passports or passports are not and cannot be subject to discussion and ICAO requirements for the implementation of the action plan. In doing so, the legislative initiative of our "Reforms for the Future" faction on the adoption of a new edition of the Act on the order of departure from Ukraine and entry into Ukraine of Ukrainian citizens, which foresees a change only necessary to cross the state passport border. [[Registration number 9592]] The second argument. Because from now on it will not be clear whether a Ukrainian citizen has the right to vote with documents of a new model, such as a foreign polling station, or whether that right will be denied. The third argument. Because the main focus of Bill 10381 is on issuing new expensive forms of documents, as well as replacing the timeless passports of a citizen with a limited term. And all this money, our money with you, but not ours sitting in this room with you is the money of Ukrainian citizens. Fourth argument. Because, as they say, quoting Stanislavsky, "I don't believe." Because we already know the sad story of the predecessor of Project 10381 of Ukraine's Entouraged Act "On Documents That Testify a Person and Confirm Ukrainian Citizenship", adopted by Parliament on September 23, last year. The second issue then raised too many of those initiatives, the introduction of biometrics and the replacement of internal documents without exception, or the fact that the President of Ukraine was forced to refer this law to Parliament and apply the veto. Because we are an Orthodox country, and for us the word biometry is equal to the word chip, which in turn is a symbol of the act of coercion of Orthodox Christians. The members of the Reforms for the Future are convinced that the above-mentioned requirements are met by the EU, primarily by the consolidated position of the Ukrainian Parliament. So let's find her. So we call on you, noble national MPs, by May 24th, to consider draft laws 10381 and 9592 to form their own and uninvolved positions. When we look each other in the eye, we have not done evil to our own state and faith, for we live only once.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u7	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Michael Rudchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, today my statement is based on the numerous requests and appeals made by citizens who are outraged by the lawlessness that is being built on railways. First of all, it is a passenger transport system. On 27 May, a new timetable for train movements is in place, which cancels about 30 pairs of trains. Mostly these are the so-called night trains that are the most demanding of our citizens. It's not the desire to move on to the day people. And power is well aware of that. Ukrainian citizens are now outraged and rightly protesting the proposed abolition of a number of direct trains between the regional centres. Instead, people are invited to obtain translations. The Lugansk-Lviv direct train has been cancelled. Now, in order to get from Luhansk to Lviv, we need to make a transplant in Kiev. Older people, families with children will be forced to stay at the station for an additional four hours, and they will be in Lviv only in the middle of the night, not at nine o'clock in the evening. I'm not saying the transplant train, the transplant trip will cost at least one and a half times the cost. And that's with the bottomless wages and pensions in Ukraine! What it costs to cancel the cheapest train "Kiev-Sevastopol"! It's still on the holiday season! Why, this train was rightfully popular! The ticket cost only 100 bracelets, which is a third of the cost of trains! Or, for example, an entirely unwarranted substitute for the very popular Kiev express "Livov-Kiev" for the speedy Hyundai. Winning time will be only an hour and a half, and the ticket price will go up three times. The optimisation of passenger transport has led to a fair protest against the population. On 12 March, about half a thousand New Alexeievka residents of the Herson region protested the change in traffic schedule and the cancellation of 16 trains at their station blocked the railways. The company supported this action and also organized the picketing of the Herson regime, demanding that the previous timetable be restored. In January-April, the company conducted protests demanding that the mariopolitans not be deprived of direct trains to Lviv, Poltavu, Lipeck. Our protest was also supported by the inhabitants of Volnovahsk, Novoazovsky, the First Level and Voddar regions of the Donetsk region. Respectable voters! There is no need to be seven pedestals in the forehead to understand that rising prices and reducing mobile passenger composition have nothing to do with optimism for the benefit of citizens. This is due to a critical lack of budgetary funding and an attempt to transfer this burden to ordinary citizens. Moreover, the question that we Communists will raise today is directly linked to another privatization affair. It's not much about preparing for the privatisation of the Crucifixion. In addition to its most delicious part, the freight transport sector. Only in the past, 2011 did the loss of the passenger sector approach the mark of 6.5 billion bracelets. Only through income-generating rail subsidies has it been possible to bring an end to the situation. Privatization will necessarily lead to a reduction in the number of trains, a rise in the price of tickets. Therefore, the Company is categorically opposed to the forthcoming privatization of the Cruise Stations. We insist on the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Act on the Nationalization of Strategic Enterprises and Industry. And from this rostrum, I once again appeal to the distinguished colleagues of the other factions to support us in this matter. This is what Ukraine needs today to overcome the crisis and development of our State. For what has been created by our generations has been created by our fathers and grandfathers to work for all, not to feed the oligarchs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u9	Mikola Rudchenko gives the right to speak to Michael Shershun. Please, your speech, the People's Party faction. Lutsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, colleagues, present! In recent times, our faction has received numerous appeals not only from citizens affected by an accident in CHAES but from district councils and administrations in many regions. They're very sharp and they're related to the problem of social protection of the Chernobyl population. Because in terms of this category of people, it's like everyone cares. And in fact, it turns out that our own, not always balanced, decisions or even idleness are ourselves, I mean all branches of government, we provoke the dissatisfaction of the affected citizens. The dispersal of resources and responsibilities among various ministries has led to the ineffective use of even these funds allocated from the government budget. Here are some real examples. At the time of the healing of the affected black people. But the ministry that does this purchases travel blindly, taking into account neither the many needs nor the medical recommendations on disease profiles. As a result, for example, for the Chernobylites in the Plain area, twice as much travel has been purchased to treat the endocrine system and organs of vision as needed. Moreover, people with digestive diseases are sent to the Priazovkurt sanatorium and to the Black Sea, and respiratory and nervous systems are offered treatment in Truscavec, and vice versa. And so the negative trend has been followed for more than a year. No adult travel has yet been purchased in the Sanatorium of Carpathia and Mirgorod, the mother’s and the child’s travels in the Crimea sanatorium, and so on. Every year, the state spends money on transporting people to health facilities at a time when professional local sanatoriums are half-empty. For example, 80 percent of the health facilities of the Equinox are not active today. But many people, because of health conditions and potential problems associated with the road and climate change, cannot go to a different area of health. In the meantime, the Chernobyls themselves and the medics assure us that the local sanatoriums are perfect for recovery. The other side of the problem. The victims complain about the organization and quality of recovery. But contracts continue to be made with the facilities under complaint. To remedy the situation, the People’s Party’s faction proposes that the mandate be delegated to the local executive authorities to heal the affected citizens because they know the needs and demands of the Chernobylites better. And that's the only way we're going to be able to make a difference. A critical issue today is the provision of medicines free of charge for outpatient treatment. Each one is offered a cure for 44 bracelets a year. And this is at a time when such money can be bought except for a drop from a dead man. And the second category liquidators have all come out of their sight. Free medicine is not for them. That's why we need to make urgent changes to Cabinet Order 955 and include in the calculation formula of the participants in the liquidation of the Chernobyl AES accident of this category. Ordering also requires a system of relief and compensation for the victims, as the differences in the size of the established Kabmin decree and the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens as a result of the Chernobyl disaster have caused numerous lawsuits by the communities before the courts. In various areas, they range from 10,000 to 20,000. Such a situation creates social tension. The faction of the People’s Party therefore stresses the need to bring legislation into line with the current laws of Ukraine. Dear Mikolo Janovich! I very much hope that the government will respond effectively to the proposals of the People's Party faction so that social initiatives in the state will be implemented, not in words, but in action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u11	Maxim Lutsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The school year of the 2011 - 2012 general secondary school ended, and an introductory campaign was launched and everything related to it, namely, the KNW. I'd like to inform you about the move. So, I want to point out that all the required preparatory procedures have been implemented in a timely and complete manner, namely: tests developed in a timely, improved state-of-the-art structure of the COD centre, test tasks delivered to testing sites in a timely manner, the WHO has been able to meet all the requirements, and certified video surveillance equipment and metal detectors have been used in the COD. As an example, on May 15, a chemistry test began, 46,000 700 people registered, 42 thousand 600, or 91.24 percent. Almost 170 public observers and 54 media representatives were observed. No comments were found. The answers are processed by the graduates using computer programs. The results of the WCO of all teaching subjects will be announced by July 1st, and by July 2nd, documents will begin to be accepted at higher educational institutions. I mean, an Aubrey can submit documents without hindrance to an established string. Now about changing the terms of acceptance compared to 2011. By order of MON to young people and sports since October 12, 2011 No.1179, I emphasize that on October 12, last year, MON has already approved the rules for admission to universities, and the aboriginals have been able to prepare themselves in a qualitative manner for university entrance. The conditions adopted in 2012 are not fundamentally different from those of 2011. But the change took place at an increase in the pass point from profile items, from 124 to 140 points, on the way to the baccalaureate. I emphasize that such money is seen as an important language to ensure a quality approach to selecting candidates. The changes also relate to the clear and transparent publication of the list of candidates. What does that mean? Some universities made lists untimely, and thus the graduate did not know whether he had entered or not to submit or have the opportunity to another university. Now we've clearly stated that the first list should be 1 August not later than 12 hours, second and third respectively, not later than 12 hours respectively, August 5 and 8, respectively. The enrollment of entrants in basic and complete general education for the day-to-day form of education will take place: on a public order, no later than 11 August, at the expense of individuals and legal persons, no later than 25 August. Under the terms of adoption of 2012, the NRA’s admission commission is obliged to establish the act of each application in the paper form of its registration. I also pay attention to the features of the addition of the ball to the winners of the fourth stage of the all-U.S. student Olympics from basic subjects and the third stage of the US Small Academy of Sciences competitions. In the first place, the graduates will receive an additional 50 points, the second, 40 and the third, respectively, 30 points. A mandatory procedure for accepting documents is to check the winner’s surnames in the appropriate Minmolodísport order on the official site. I want to inform you, on May 17, 2012, the Cabinet Order had already adopted a government order, and according to the decree, the amount of admission to prepare professionals for a junior specialist of 79,000, for a Bachelor of 127. I would like to point out that there has been an increase of 14 to 64 percent compared to 2012 in the technical direction. In our opinion, fill the employment centers with thousands of economists and lawyers. In general, I would like to point out that, in my opinion and the committee, the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sport have prepared in good time and in good quality for the 2012 introductory campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u13	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions and groups have been completed. For the suggestions that have been made and that need to be responded to by the executive authorities, I ask that you prepare letters, appeals, and assignments. Dear colleagues, we need to consider a section on the inclusion of a series of bills in the agenda. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges) (registration number 10425). [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u14	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, since laws are now being taken for granted -- the more, the better -- I realized that we are moving through the night, and I realized that the Labour Code for National Deputies has already been repealed, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill, which was initiated by the President of Ukraine, is in grave violation of the Constitution. There are no findings from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Moreover, it is explicitly stated in the Explanatory Note: given the fact that the powers of the President, the Supreme Council with regard to the appointment and election of judges provided for in the Constitution, cannot be ruled out entirely without amending the Basic Law. It's written in. But at the same time, if we want to show for external use that we have independent judicial authority, independent of conscience, from everything else, as Lucenka, the Timoshenko case, has shown. As a result, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich may not have to rush such bills. Let's get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u15	Yes, please, Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! I want to pay attention to the opposition, the previous speaker, who, when it comes to speculation, always takes into account the recommendations of the 1862 Council of Europe. The recommendation itself draws attention to the attention of the community, especially in paragraph six, to making changes, including the Constitution for existing legislation, in order to ensure the independence of judges. So I propose that we put into the agenda, vote in the first reading, and then the differences that the Constitution makes, and those moments, especially the recommendations. Resolutions 1862, para. 6.2. and 6.4. which require changes to the Constitution, submit these proposals to the Constitutional Assembly, prepare appropriate proposals, and work. So I'm speaking on behalf of the faction of the Regions and as the head of the Ukrainian delegation in Paris, so that we can put it into the agenda and accept it at least in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u17	Helen Shustick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u18	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, our faction clearly opposes the inclusion of this bill in the order of the day. I want to remind everyone that it is from the submission of the author of this Janukovich project that we have in the judicial system of fully controlled judges, we have political prisoners by a decision of the courts in the name of Ukraine. The authors mentioned the resolution of PARJE, its implementation, but why they do not mention other paragraphs of the same resolution, the release of political prisoners — Timoshenko and Lucenko — is about the humanization of national criminal legislation, 365 and 364 articles. I can say with confidence that once this presidential know-how has been adopted, the judges will be completely controlled. What I'm going to say is that the people's deputies are not allowed to question the judges when they vote, to comment on their work. Our job is just to push the buttons. Who needs this legislative initiative? And lastly, with this project, the president, in fact, admitted that the Public Prosecutor's Office had an influence on the decision-making of the judges and intervened in the judicial proceedings, because the President himself restricted the right of the Prosecutor's Office to appeal to the judge and was allowed only after the hearing of the appeal and the hearing. The real purpose of this bill is to crush Europe's eyes. And let's not close our eyes and not support the inclusion in the agenda of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, taking into account the comments and suggestions that have been made, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on strengthening the guarantees of the independence of judges]] Please vote. [[10:35:11]] For 217 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on architectural activity and on licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[on the licensing of commercial activities in construction]] [[Registration number 10131]] Please vote. [[10:35:46]] For 230 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Psychiatric Assistance Act. [[on the extent to which assistance is provided to a person caring for a disabled person]] Registration number 10416. Please vote. [[10:36:22]] For 296 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Approval of the Universal Programme for HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support of HIV-infected and AIDS Patients for 2009-2013 is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10192]] Please vote. [[10:37:01]] For 316 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10337]] Please vote. [[10:37:35]] For 269 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the appointment of national commissions that regulate the market for securities and financial services is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10404]] Please vote. [[10:38:09]] For 267 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Appointments of National Commissions shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 10405]] Please vote. [[10:38:37]] For 265 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10456]] Please vote. [[10:39:10]] For 294 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the calculation to the State budget of Ukraine by sub-credits]] [[Registration number 10395]] Please vote. [[10:39:44]] For 257 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Appendix No. 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 shall be put to the vote. [[on budgetary allocations]] [[Registration number 10478]] Please vote. Please vote. [[10:40:18]] For 241 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on improving the conditions for the appointment of a pension]] [[Registration number 10085]] Please vote. Yes, when we consider it. We're just including. [[10:40:49]] For 190 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree on the creation of the Military Glory Avenue in the Park of Eternal Glory of the city of Kiev. [[Registration number 10389]] Please vote. [[10:41:18]] For 265 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the enforcement of court decisions]] [[Registration number 10142]] Please vote. Take down the vote, please. Olena Shustik, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u20	Olena Shustik, "BUT is Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Once again, I'm drawing your attention to what kind of bills we're putting into the agenda. As noted in the explanatory note, a bill was sent to execute the courts handed down in favour of the State. And it's proposed that the main body that will ensure and control the implementation of the tax system be tax authorities. However, the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Office, does not support these changes. And that's right. Such powers of tax authorities are contrary to the Law on the State Tax Service in Ukraine and the Tax Code. After all, the tax system monitors the timeliness of the charges, the financial sanctions for the breach of tax legislation alone, and it has nothing to do with administrative fines. The other one. The project foresees that the decision to impose administrative tightening applies to the execution of the order provided for in the Executive Conduct Act. But it is virtually impossible to do so, since, apart from a fine, confiscation or the removal of an article of the Code of Administrative Offences, it provides for warnings or corrections that are not regulated by the law. The bill will complicate the procedure for the enforcement of court decisions and create even more problems and collegiates, as it is contrary to existing law. I propose not to support, not to include in the agenda a bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! I would ask you to pay attention, there's a whole range of suggestions. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u22	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There really is a whole range of proposals, a whole series of expert conclusions, which in many ways contradict each other. But I'd like to see if you can see where the changes are going. Changes are proposed in the Law on Executive Conduct. Instead, it's the Criminal Procedure Code. Although another Code of Criminal Procedure has now been signed. And the Code of Administrative Offences. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if relying on the State Tax Service to apply a penalty in the form of confiscation of property is to be introduced, it is also necessary to amend the Law on the State Tax Service in Ukraine. By the way, this is in general contrary to the functions of the State Tax Service in Ukraine and if we want to cause even more trouble to the state. Because now the words "tax" are afraid. Because nobody gets VAT back today, they just talk about what they get, they have to cancel it as a class. These changes do not solve any problem of timely recourse to enforce fines in cases of misdemeanours that have short notices. That's why I think it's absolutely right for my colleague Shustik not to be included in the order of the day. And that is why we can shorten the work of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if we do not adopt such legislative acts at all. I propose not to vote in favour of including him in the order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that a number of letters have been added to this project, which contain comments from ministries and authorities. Please take this into account. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the enforcement of court decisions. [[Registration number 10142]] Please vote. [[10:45:57]] For 238. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the extension of the law to workers in mining and uranium mining]] [[Registration number 10129]] Please vote. [[10:46:32]] Z-70. The decision is not taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Printed Media in Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the simplification of the registration procedure for printed media]] [[Registration number 10135]] Please vote. [[10:47:06]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on the Ordering of Individual Laws of Ukraine is put to the vote in accordance with the Ukrainian Information Act. [[Registration number 10157]] Please vote. [[10:47:37]] For 114 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure equality of rights between single mothers and single parents. [[Registration number 10045]] Please vote. [[10:48:07]] For 311 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on administrative data submitted by employers to the State Employment Service]] [[Registration number 10107]] Please vote. [[10:48:40]] For-35 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[on the list of single contributors]] [[Registration number 10188]] [[10:49:15.]] For-61 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to improve taxation for widows of dead coal-based pensioners who were entitled to free supply of fuel for their lives. [[Registration number 10088]] Please vote. [[10:49:49]] For 304 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Trade in Medical Devices in the Rural Region. [[Registration number 10225]] Please vote. [[10:50:21]] For 273 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 324 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[about congregations for special use of water]] [[Registration number 10215]] Please vote. [[10:50:53]] For 259. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree marking the 20th anniversary of Ukraine's participation in United Nations peacekeeping operations and establishing the Day of Ukrainian Peacekeepers. [[Registration number 10339]] Please vote. [[10:51:27]] For 271 Decision taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order marking 195th anniversary of the birth of I.K. Aivasowski. [[Registration number10148]] Please vote. [[10:51:57]] For 297 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 130th anniversary of Cyril Steczenk's birth. Please vote. Registration number 10201. [[10:52:25]] For 262 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 110th anniversary of the birth of Zoe Hydei. Please vote. [[10:52:55]] For 111 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 130th anniversary of the establishment of the Kyrovograd Academy of the Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre by them. M.L. Kropivnicki. [[Registration number 10216]] Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I just want to remind you that this is a unique theater, a base theater from which we started, in fact, Ukrainian theatre art. Near the hut of Nadia, where all the parishes of the Ukrainian theater lived. And that's very important. And in this, there's no extra cost in the draft regulation, it's about running this theater, doing an all-U.S. show, let's say, better performances. This theater is now under budget repair and is likely to be completed by the end of its jubilee. Because of this, there is simply an amazing opportunity to celebrate the anniversary of this theater today. But the jubilee of the theater is going to be in the epicenter of these events, but it's going to be around it, of course, a great theater picture of Ukraine. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u25	There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 130th anniversary of the establishment of the Kirovograd Academy of Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre called Kropivinski. Please vote. [[10:54:54]] For 323 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 150th anniversary of the writing of the national anthem of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10244]] Please vote. [[10:55:23]] For 315 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 180, "BUT – "Fathership" – 59, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 20, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 17. I'm voting for a proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decision to celebrate 400 years from the birth of Nemiritch Yuri - politics, diplomat, statesman, writer and polemist, known as the author of political and theological tracts, magnat pattic, colonel, diplomat of the Hmelničina era. [[Registration number 10245]] Please be sure. [[10:56:19]] For-126 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Please be sure. [[10:56:50]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. I would like to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order marking the 175th anniversary of the birth of Paul Chubinsky. [[Registration number 10248]] Please vote. [[10:57:19]] For 135 Dear colleagues! I think so. One minute, now. Wait a minute! Please, calm down! I think you could assign a committee to draft the 150th anniversary of the creation of the state-of-the-art anthem to add positions that would apply to Paul Chubinsky's Jubilee. Vladimir Yavorowski, please. And we're going to get out of this colossal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u26	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, that's exactly what I was going to say, get out of this colossal, because to vote for the Jubilee writing of our anthem and not vote 175 years after Chubinski's birthday -- absolutely stupid and all that. For that reason, the committee will work, we will introduce the Jubilee of Chubinsky into a separate paragraph before the decree adopted, Volodymyr Mikhailovich. We could even vote for that to include this. Then there'll be no collisions. And then you'll sign the decree and that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u27	The point is, Vladimir Aleksandrovich. I can't put a vote on this right now because we haven't even taken the Draft Decision as a basis. We just put it in the agenda. Let us simply arrange that the committee’s protocol assignment in preparation for the previous decision will include positions that relate directly to the author of the anthem in connection with his Jubilee. And that's how we settle this situation. No objections? None. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order marking the 75th anniversary of the establishment of the Labedin Medical School of Professor Sitenk's name. I would like to vote on the inclusion of the draft order in the agenda. Registration number 10256. [[10:59:24]] For 121 The decision is not taken. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[Registration number 10262]] Take down the vote. Mikhail Kosov, please. We've made up our minds about the Scout movement, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose to the authors of this proposal. Take the Constitution, article 15 of the second part, and it literally says, "No ideology can be considered a binding state." Tell me, is the pioneer movement based on Communist ideology? Of course. For Lenin, Stalin, the Communist Party, be ready! And the answer is always ready! Wait, if you're always ready, be ready. What if someone's not ready? At the national level, we owe him always to be prepared, although it is an ideology that does not fit his world view. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if that were to happen, don't let God that they've taken that decision, but you can't sign a normative act that specifically denies article 15 of part two of the Ukrainian Constitution. And that's why I don't think we should vote for proposals that are obviously completely wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u29	Sergey Gordienko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u30	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would like to deny it to a colleague of mine who was speaking, for there is certainly no man in this room who has not been through the pioneer movement, through patriotic training, a love for his Fatherland. I would like to say here to the previous speaker what the pioneer means first. So you claim the right of children today to be involved in the patriotic upbringing and love of their Fatherland. I'd like to tell you that any movement, of course, if you look for it, has ideological padding, including scouting and other movements. But if you don't, you will vote or you won't vote, the 90th anniversary of the pioneer movement, the pioneer organization Vladimir Illich Lenin is widely celebrated in Ukraine in all areas of Ukraine. And the All - Ukrainian pioneer line took place in Zaporozhye, which is widely reported in the media. I understand why or why you hate it. And what you said. But I'm drawing attention to what we've done negative? And unfortunately, we destroyed the Soviet system of education, which was based on the interaction of schools, families, and the public, and the harmonization of approaches to parenting. After destroying it, we gave nothing in return. And now we will reap in the future what we are doing with these young people today without giving in return what we have taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Taking into account the exchange of thoughts that have just taken place, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the pioneer movement. [[Registration number 10262]] [[11:03:58]] For-35 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Order marking the 125th anniversary of John Cavalieridze's birth. [[Registration number 10271]] Please vote. [[11:04:30]] For 133 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u32	The factions!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u33	The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 5, "BUT - "Patkaščina" is 59, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" is 21, the Communists are 22, the People's Party is 0, "Reforms for the Future" is 18, the non-fractional is 8. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, and honourable voters, it seems to me that there has just been a complete misunderstanding. Ivan Kavaleridze is a huge figure in Ukrainian culture. Second movie director after Alexander Long. The world - wide film director, Cavalieridze, was viewed as a second follower at all. The unique sculptor who made Taras Shevchenk’s first monuments is here in Ukraine. Well, what are you doing? How can we not vote for this man simply because Mikola Tomenko, the representative of the opposition, made this decree? Well, what are you doing, people good, take your head! Chickens will laugh. For Kavaleridze do not vote to celebrate his Jubilee!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u35	Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u36	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I wonder why the faction of the Party of Regions didn't vote for Cavalieridze. Maybe because he's not a member of the Party of Regions and wasn't in this party? Maybe those, and in fact, to be serious, our voters are respected, this fact of not voting for the 125th anniversary of Kavaleridze's birth really shows a very bright fact -- the extraordinary cultural limitations and ignorance of those people, the vast majority who are in power today. They have Ahmatova, they have Ahmatova, they have Kavaleridze, they don't even know who it is, Chekov is a poet and so on. People are good! You may vote not only for the pioneers but you may vote for the prominent Ukrainian people’s names! Perhaps you would like to see the films made by Cavalieridze, Mr. Chechtev? Are you mad that he is the author of Shevchenk’s monuments? Perhaps if it were your monument or Yanukovich, would you vote? Shame!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u37	Now. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Let's calm down a little bit. Well, we have to look at the dates. Of course, we can vote this year's anniversary date, which was two years ago. Sure. This year it was 153, and three years ago it was 150. The Committee passed out three years ago, let's mark 150 this year when it's 153! Well, they'll laugh at us. That's why we didn't vote. Yes, indeed, he is a remarkable man and so on. But the point is, it's already been a birthday! And we can't vote again, I repeat, on the birth date of 153 years vote for 150, which was three years ago! Well, it's easy here in the daytime. That's one reason. The last number shall not vote on the anniversary dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u39	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The logic behind identifying prominent actors in culture and history is that as a minimum, when we are born, we write down a plan of action to do so. Indeed, under certain circumstances we would have to accept this month. But this does not mean that if the birthday was a few weeks ago, that in 2012, when the birthday of John Cavalieridze was 125 years old, it is not possible to organize arrangements in both May and June and July. Usually a Jubilee of this level, and by the way, I remind you that I follow the principle that has always been set in respect, I don't make a decision where there are no dates 100, 50 or 25. So this is a fixed principle. 125 years is a date that has been honored both in Soviet times and today. That's why I think John Cavalieridze has created so many brilliant films that you can see today: both "Grigorius Scovoroda" and "Natalka Poltavka" and "The Zaporec of the Danube." In fact, not only is he famous as the author of the monument Shevchenk but he is also the monument to the Princess Olga, who was restored or restored during independence. By the way, the monument to Jaroslav the Wise. He's known all over the country. And today there's a school, by the way, a strong architecture school by John Cavalieridze, where the middle generation and the new generation have continued its traditions. So if you're talking about directing school, Long Beach Cavalieridze school. And when it comes to architectural sculpture school, it is also a school that celebrates Ukraine today. So I think it's absolutely correct, if even the birthday was a month ago, we're in the year. In 2012, which should be the year of John Cavalieridze's celebration. So I would like to return to this decision and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u41	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u42	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I want to thank Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko for noticing that we have a year to celebrate. And our respectable friend, who is tired of raising his hand, is raising many times today. And when the numbers got mixed up, someone told you 153 years. Only 125 years have passed since John Petrovich Cavalieridze worked at the Odessa Film Studio. When I was working at the Kiowa Film Studio. And, Sir Michael, I'd like you to see what's going on at Odessa or Kyiv Film Studio. Unfortunately, we don't make Ukrainian movies. Unfortunately, we've got other films from another state, we've got violence, we've got promotions from everything else. And what Ivan Petrovich Cavalleridze suggested: it was both the film and the Prekop, and the Collievishtina, and the Gregory of Skovorod is one of the brightest philosophers of modern times. And those monuments that Tomenko told you about, and a lot of things that we should be proud of all the years to celebrate, and remind young people who was this giant, and remind today our filmmakers that we don't have to translate movies and show on all the TV channels, starting with "Intera," ending with "Ukraine" which Ukrainians are vulnerable, because there's bound to be a Ukrainian in the movie, either a traitor, or a drunk, or a prostitute, or someone else. Well, that's what happened in those movies. Let's make our films normal, Ukrainian and learn in Cavalierid. Let's go back to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think we're all happy to have all the creative experts here at the Cavalieridze session hall. But since there was such a conflict and discussion, one minute, and at the same time, I was asked by a number of factions to vote on the Presidential Bill. Let's finish the consideration of these issues, then I'll go back to these two bills and we'll vote them out, and we'll successfully include them. As an exception, and as a compromise, we'll put it into the agenda. All of it. So we're putting it down. Now we're going to get to the bottom of this, and then we're going to go back to these two bills. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 110th anniversary of Yuri Janowski's birth. [[Registration number 10297]] Please vote. [[11:13:19]] For-143 The decision is not taken. I'm going to vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. [[Registration number 10298]] Please vote. Andrea Owls. Please vote. The century. [[11:13:45]] For 310 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 140th anniversary of Vasil Krichevsky's birth. [[Registration number 10307]] Please be sure. [[11:14:20]] For 278 Decision taken. Well, the decision's made, for 278. Dear colleagues, come on, let's go. I'll bet you a vote on the proposal to be included in the agenda of the daily project. Order to mark the 125th anniversary of Henry Neuhaus' birth. [[Registration number 10394]] Please vote. [[11:15:01]] For 314 Decision taken. I'm voting on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. Order marking 175th anniversary of the birth of John Nechuy-Levitsky. [[Registration number 10407]] Please vote. [[11:15:37]] For 340. Decision taken. Just a minute. Decision taken, 340. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Decision on Recognition in such a way that it has become invalid, the Orders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Approval of the Regulation on the Certificate of the Official Person of the Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine and the description of this certificate". [[Registration number 10498]] Please vote. [[11:16:23]] For 260 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the military forces of other States to Ukraine in 2012 for participation in multinational military training. [[Registration number 10488]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Please. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u44	Thank you. I'm sorry. We had everything in this room, but there was no such thing as an important and very important bill to the State concerning the confirmation of law or approval, more faithfully, the President's decision to allow the forces of other states to the territory of Ukraine without discussion on a profile committee was put to the vote. I'm telling you, what's the rush today? Today at 3 p.m., the National Security and Defence Committee. Who's in such a hurry to introduce this bill right now to vote in this room? What is more, it provides for the use of public funds, that is, funds from the State budget for these multinational military trainings. That is, people’s deputies should discuss the problem in a comprehensive manner before making a balanced decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I ask the committee to consider this question and put it on the agenda on Thursday. The section has been completed. Dear colleagues, let's put it this way: no one will go back anywhere, because all of this is against the law. Come on, think. [[B in m in s a l in]] When did they return? When? A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the characteristics of rental or concession of facilities in the areas of heating, water supply and water supply held in municipal property is under consideration. [[Registration number 9739]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:19:20]] For 223 Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing and Utilities. The reporter is Sergey Maybeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u46	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, proposed a bill to address the issues raised in the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Renting or Concession of Central Water and Water Supply Facilities, which are in municipal ownership and to implement the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Ukrainian Economic Reform Programme. The bill is designed to create favourable conditions for private investment in the area of heating, water supply and water supply, primarily by establishing transparent investment conditions, securing the guarantee of return, ensuring information transparency in the conduct of the competition, regulating property relations when the terms of contracts, concessions or leases are met. The adoption of this law will help to resolve problems in the conduct of the concessional competition, ensure the information transparency of the procedure, determine the duties of the tenant or concessionaire in the execution of the contract, regulate the time limits for the fulfilment of investment obligations under the terms of the contract, and also facilitate the efficient management and functioning of thermal and water supply facilities that are held in municipal property. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u47	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u48	The committee considered the bill on 21 March this year and, in support of the government legislative initiative, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis and to develop it with representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing for consideration in the second reading, taking into account the comments and proposals of the legislators. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Act on Renting or Concession of Centralized Water, Heat and Water Supply, which is owned by the municipal property on which our committee worked, became effective on November 20, 2010. A year before his operation, the MINREGION, its authorized body, was carrying out work on its implementation and monitoring, which revealed a number of issues that were addressed by the bill. The main scientific and expert management, with the conclusion of 16.03.2012, proposes to adopt the project as a basis and to process the observations during its preparation for second reading. In particular, the administration disagrees with the unconditional refusal of notifying leases and concessions. The Committee on Budget Affairs has objected to the deadlines for entry into force, as the bill will have an impact on the spending of local budgets. This proposal will be taken into account by the committee when working on the project for second reading. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that when a bill is being passed by the Government, it must pass through all ministries, and obviously must be harmonized, especially with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which in some way claims that today's patients cannot be treated abroad and so on. No, as one of the authors of the penal code, I claim that it was written there. And in this Code of Criminal Enforcement, there is no right to set up listening devices for people who are condemned. That's what it says. The Ministry of Justice therefore prefers to view it better, since in 793 and 794 articles of the Ukrainian Civil Code, a contract for the hiring of a building or another capital building, a separate part of it for a period of 3 years and more is subject to notarial certification and state registration. Because of this, it is obvious that those leases and concessions, as proposed now in the new part of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Renting or Concession of Centralized Water, Heating and Water Management Facilities in Municipal Property, obviously had to be taken into account. Obviously, there's a scientific expertise proposal that shows that there's a discrepancy between this law and the Civil Code. And I want to show by my statement that we have the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which should clearly see and foresee a lot of things, especially not to do lascivious further legislation. Patches to be made, changes and additions to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u51	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, truly to you. National MP Landik, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u52	Thank you. You know, we're good at handing over, making different forms of property in communal property. But what do they all lead to? Let's see, in the same area of Lugansk, the water supply is transferred to the same plant. The water's gone, the quality's bad, and the price goes up every day. Because they gave one of the monopolies. It's the same thing with gorges. Prices are constantly increasing if the State does not hold back, and quality is, of course, deteriorating. And you can see it on every single thing we give and give to a monopolist. You could understand this bill if, for example, we allowed not more than 10 percent, as it is said, in one hand, then there would be competition, then we could see who is better and who is worse? And since we tried to monopolize and take all the garbage from local councils in the last meeting, now we want to monopolize and take away the heat and water supply. And all of this leads to what he said to us. Olanergo, yes, in private hands, but it's one for the entire area. Electricity in some villages in the Lugansk region is 120-130 volts, and we pay 220 volts, and the counter thinks very well, even better than 220 volts. Thus, the monopoly will continue to increase the price, and the quality of the heat and water supply may deteriorate. Therefore, what the Antimonopoly Committee never sees is what we are told throughout Europe, but there are more than five.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u53	Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u54	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We realize that these heat and water supply facilities, all of which are utilities, will be leased to private entities or concessions. And private structures, taking them into leases or concessions, will of course do everything they can to exploit their profits. And this profit is really only going to come from raising tariffs for all utilities. So the normal national MP, I think, who communicates with the electorate, never votes for this bill, because it's important that we have all these enterprises that provide water, water, heat to keep them in communal property, and that the state should provide adequate support for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the bill could be adopted as a basis. The voting position is based on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the characteristics of leases or concessions of facilities in the areas of heating, water supply, and water supply held in municipal property. Please vote. [[11:29:34]] For 239. Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Control is being announced for consideration. [[on compensation payments]] [[Registration number 10067]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:30:07]] For 216 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Deputy Minister for Regional Development of Construction and Housing, Isenko Dmitry Valeriovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the committee, Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u56	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, article 41 of the Urban Control Act establishes that officials of the State Architectural Inspectorate are subject to compulsory State insurance. However, the U.S. Insurance Act provides for a transition from compulsory state insurance to compensatory payments. In this connection, article 41 of the Urban Regulation Act requires that the Ukrainian Insurance Act be complied with. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u57	Thank you, sit down, please. Please inform Yuri Sergiyovich of the committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u58	Dear colleagues! The committee considered this issue at its meeting. The scientific expert supported this bill. The European Integration Committee has confirmed that it does not conflict with existing, existing agreements with the European Union. The committee is also asking you to support this bill in the first reading. And those remarks that are from the side, they're not serious, I don't think the comments from the Committee on Budgets and Science and Management will be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u59	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, may I vote? Who insists on the performance? Please sign up. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Radovec, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u60	Please pass the word to a colleague of Gashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear radio listeners! In particular, the project is intended to replace compulsory state insurance for officials of State-architectural inspections with compensation payments from the State budget in the event of accidents in the course of their service obligations. The project also foresees that in the event of the death or death of an official in the course of his or her duties, compensation benefits will be paid to the heirs. For the officials of the State Architectural Inspectorate or their heirs, compensation payments from the State Budget will be paid in accordance with the order established by the Cabinet. However, for the time being, existing legislation decides to raise the issue by means of compulsory public social insurance at the expense of payment of insurance premiums. And even though it is a positive legislative initiative to set compensation payments, it is worth noting that the size of such compensatory payments is not defined at the legislative level. We believe that it would be appropriate to specify in law what amounts of compensation will be paid and in what cases. So that the procedure of compensation on the part of the State would be transparent. Considering that this legislative initiative fits into the context of the President of Ukraine's social initiatives, the Reforms for the Future faction will support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u62	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Yuri Carmazin, please. Then the Fedun will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u63	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Stanislav Arjevetin and I are not adherents of this law. What's the matter? Let us see what is written in the present law in part seven of article 41. It says, "The officials of the State Architectural Inspectorate shall be subject to compulsory state insurance in accordance with the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Who is in the way? Well, who's in the way that people are insured today, that there's no problem with that? And who is prevented by the fact that, in accordance with article 999 of the Civil Code, the "On Insurance" Act by compulsory State Insurance under article 41 on the regulation of urban activity and the order of compulsory State Insurance for officials of the Inspectorate approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, these people are insured and can work normally? I'd like to say that the conclusion of scientific expertise is a little bit distorted when you read here, and it's written a little bit differently. It says, quote, "In view of this, we propose that before the adoption of the individual law mentioned above leave part of article 41 in the existing edition. – Leave it as it is! – Complementing the standard for making compensatory payments from the State budget under compulsory government insurance in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” So the expert board doesn't want to narrow down the protection that's already in place today. I advise you to open article 22 of the Constitution and see. And it says that when new laws are passed, there is no narrowing. So all your social initiatives! Absolutely! You take a ticket to Kharkiv now and you get three times the price, over 500 bucks. That's an improvement! This is a social initiative! Beresh, look, all the trains in the night canceled, everything else. This is an improvement, this is a social initiative. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u64	National Deputy Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? He's refusing. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Once again, the committee proposes to adopt a bill based on what the committee's deputy chairman has reported. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. [[on compensation payments]] [[Registration number 10067]] [[11:37:00]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement on the purchase of goods by aircraft industry is under review. [[Registration number 9748]] It is suggested that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:37:37]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. Correspondent is the head of the committee, Alexei Vitaliovich Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u65	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, among the real sectors of the aviation economy as well as the space sector, are high technologies. I would like to say thank you to all the Ukrainian national deputies, because during the third, fourth, fifth and sixth vocations all factions, all political forces are concerned with the preservation and development of high technology in Ukraine. Ukraine will produce and start today testing and manufacturing Ukrainian helicopters in Winnice at a factory with Ukrainian engines, with Ukrainian motors. The point is that the modern development of domestic manufacturing companies, aircraft, helicopters, and motors, foresees an increase in the role of domestic consumption, but so far, to a large extent, their work depends on the needs of the external market. Businesses that modernize the production of airplanes, engines, work cost-effectively, pay taxes and, in principle, pay a good salary, but so far, the main ones depend on the export of our products. Foreign purchases require a contract to be executed in the shortest possible time. The special thing is that the procurement process is carried out in a longer time period, and the production of airplanes and aircraft engines is a technically complex process. The production cycle can be a year or more. And in manufacturing we have to get, you know, permission to buy one participant, it's provided for by the law in force. So gathering evidence of the inability to buy into any other participant, when a manufacturer is located outside Ukraine, is very often simply impossible. You know, we have to buy Russia with our titanium mining and metallurgical combinations. Dear colleagues, the bill is short. It's made up of one sentence. I'm making an offer. Today, one of the coauthors of this bill, the Hero of Ukraine, is not feeling well. Let's make him and the airline industry, the gift industry, we'll take the whole bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u66	Alexi Plotnikov, head of the Committee on Economic Policy Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u67	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 10 April 2012 reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement on the purchase of goods by aircraft industry, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies to Boguslayev and Suhim. [[corresponding registration number 9748]] The bill proposes not to extend the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement to goods according to the complete information on airplanes or helicopters and to the specification of materials and aggregates on official engines that have been submitted to the manufacturer's design documentation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a number of comments to the bill. Since the project aims to shorten the purchase deadlines for modernizing production, repairing airplanes, helicopters and engines to them and to prevent the collapse of manufacturing processes and non-performance of contracts with foreign customers, the Committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the project be adopted on a basis and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 9748]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u69	I'm asking you to tell our colleague most of Behiz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u70	Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to say what Vinitza said, 421 airlines are a big, powerful factory that's been repairing aircraft for thousands of months. The factory hasn't worked in 20 years. And we have to thank the hero of Ukraine, Boguslaev, for coming to Motorsich and the factory alive. So I think that this bill must be supported, because the aviation sector is the most scientific asset, and it must become the basis for the economy of the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u72	Thank you, too. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi said quite accurately, starting with the fact that the aviation sector is one of the few that is highly technological in Ukraine. I'd like to add some more. This is not only a sector of high technology, but also a sector that is competitive for Ukraine when compared with other sectors. So two key factors, which force and encourage the state to support this sector, are, first of all, high technology and, secondly, competitiveness. What is happening in today’s world? I've already talked about it from this rostrum: they're sneezing, surviving, dispossessing countries and areas that are competitive for the richest, richest, and influential countries in the world. This is how the process of marginalizing the economy of many countries is happening because the competitor is being destroyed. What should the State do under such conditions? To support those areas that are competitive, I would say that, apart from airplane construction, there are not so many in Ukraine -- it is indeed a space industry, it is a agriculture in its potential, but there is one that is feared, by the way, including our friends and benefactors, because Ukraine can take on a serious niche in the world distribution of labor, and that is why they are very afraid. And that's why when it comes to airplane construction, and especially to the fact that, in these difficult circumstances, those who do it go even, not even, but to the modernization of this area, to the modernization of this area, the task of parliamentarians as state people to support what Ukraine is competitive, what it is competitive about. We need to make sure that these areas are supported by the state. And among them, perhaps one of the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u74	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear national deputies, today we were invited to mention how pioneers were like other organizations. I'd like to mention how we had ministries: heavy engineering, medium engineering, and so on. What is it now? Is there the Ministry of Industry, or is there at least a question or an industrial policy? Not at all. Your administrative short-term reform has led to the fact that there is no ministry to take care of it. Because of this, I am extremely grateful to our colleague Bogslaev, let him recover, and to Jaroslav Sukhoma, who has reported this law now, and I want to say that, Ukraine, we are competing with powerful world corporations, which have apparently been behind the adoption of the Law on State Procurement, where we have not removed these things from shipbuilding and placed them entirely under one of Russia's oligarchs and Hersonians and Mikolaiyevs and other shipowners. Why'd you put it in? In order to perform a task that is no longer an industry in Ukraine. As a result, this law must be adopted immediately and immediately to ask the question of the signature to the President, both in the first and second readings. You see what kind of evil was done when the Euro wasn't applied to this law, how many billions were given, and here no one's asking for any billions, they say, let us choose for ourselves, as the designers suggest, the detail that they planned and introduced, and send this product, create added value, load Ukrainians, really, serious work. If only we had cars and vans and everything. And President Yanukovich, before his social initiatives, proposes primacy and urgently create the Ministry of Industry, without this Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u76	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u77	Honorable colleagues, distinguished national MPs, respected citizens! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future clearly appreciates this legislative initiative on the procedure for disposing of public procurement in the aviation sector. And that's what we come up with, on the one hand, the seemingly convincing position of Jaroslav Suhogo, the convincing position of the authors of the legislative initiative that the aviation sector needs a different view of purchases. Because it's shorter because it's supposed to have contracts and stuff, but there's another side. Well, first of all, I'm not going to talk about the State Procurement Act itself, which clearly regulates one issue: if an enterprise or a direction has to move away from public procurement, it can go through and be written in this law by a separate special procedure, and that provides for an active legislation. The second question. Let me remind you that government funds are controlled exclusively by law. And for that, the government's purchases were written down to control the money. Which one of you can give your neighbor your wallet. Let him handle his own judgment. Because it's going to be faster. That's probably some kind of wrong position. Next question. Here we said populist things about the airline industry. Does anyone know what it is in Ukraine? When it comes to building an engine, yes. When it comes to aircraft repairs, yes. But these factories and these businesses are overrun by products. I recently went to the Motor City Company. There's no window to get a new order. Odessa’s aircraft repair plant There's no windows, everything's down, everything's working, the business is profitable. So we're talking about some virtual planebuilding industry. How many AN-178, 148, have you ever built in the history of an independent Ukraine? Two? That's what we're talking about. I want to tell you on behalf of the MPs that we think this bill is wrong, we think it should be rejected. And you shouldn't try to walk away from constant and normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u78	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u79	A normal standing public procurement procedure within the existing Public Procurement Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u81	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm sorry, I can't stand it. Now I had a brilliant lobbyist from a foreign capitalist and a foreign producer. In 20 years, we opened up the Ukrainian market, and we flooded it with a three - way purchase. Millions of Ukrainian citizens are forced to go abroad to take pots to Europeans. Therefore, the policy of the State must be radically changed. It should be designed to protect a domestic national manufacturer. And first of all, the airline industry as one of the components of Ukraine's economy. Under this bill, 150 companies are involved in the production of airplanes. These are thousands of jobs. So we have to lower taxes. We have to simplify procedures for Ukrainian aircraft to fly, for Ukrainian tractors and combines to sell Ukrainian potatoes and Greeks, not Chinese flax and Greeks, and everything else. This will enable millions of Ukrainians to provide jobs and wages and a decent life.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! I ask you to listen to this pathetic appeal and, in principle, the right one. Here the speakers also said that Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, that we need to have a structure that works for the industry. And as for your fellow Members of the Air Force, I would like to inform you once again that, on May 27-28, there will be a meeting of the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament, which are part of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of Ukraine-Russia, as well as representatives of the two chambers of Parliament, with the participation of government officials, where we will discuss how from words to business, we will move on to cooperation so that the aviation branch does not die in Ukraine, so that there are no problems in Russia, the main thing to be the result. In this I would ask that we make this decision, this is exactly what we are doing, from conversation to action. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a whole. I would like very much not to deny and make this decision for us. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement for the purchase of goods by aircraft industry. [[Registration number 9748]] Please vote. [[11:52:36]] For the 320. Thank you. The law is passed. Copy that. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of terms of supply is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:53:11]] For 223 Decision taken. Reporter - Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Bandurov. The narrator is Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u83	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, by the President's decree of 19 May 2011, has lost effect on the President's decree of 4.10.1994 on the application of international rules for the interpretation of commercial terms. [[No. 589]] With the loss of validity of rules regarding the obligation to apply Incoterms rules to economic operators, it is actually possible to determine, on the basis of free will, the terms of supply contracts for domestic and external trade, the use of known international customs, recommendations, rules of international bodies and organizations. So today it is necessary to remove the above-mentioned standard from the Ukrainian Laws on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine, for the Protection of National Producers from Dempeded Iport, for the Use of Special Measures for Imports into Ukraine, and for the Code of Masters. It is suggested that the draft law be supported in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u84	Thank you, sit down too. Please inform the Supreme Council about the Committee’s decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u85	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 24 April 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of conditions of supply, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Penetration No. 84]] The purpose of the bill is to enable economic operators to determine, on the basis of free will, the terms of supply contracts for internal and external trade, using known international customs, recommendations, rules of international bodies and organizations. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the following considerations and proposals. The Committee on Economic Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of terms of supply, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, please write down who will speak on this matter. Names of the national deputies. Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u87	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Of course, it is not just a question that stands before us today. And because I think that's the problem. And those who do especially export-import business are constantly faced with the problem of assessing a product. For example, a product and a loving subject are imported, of course, that if it imports a product along the way, its task is to buy a better product, to buy it cheaper in the market. And of course, today's market, taking into account the trends in today's economy in the world, is one that is not stable. So you can't tell that the same product on the move can be at the same price. Especially if you compare today’s market trends in Asian production and European production. What's going on in customs? The Customs Service, of course, taxes, when goods enter the border, on a system of accounting that is appropriate, so to speak, a trend, or practice, or is the calculation of that product at a high rate. And accordingly, there is a conflict between the importer and the services that are in order to fill the budget. And importers, that is, our subjects are interested in getting this product to a cheaper border. And in this case, I turn to the government, to the customs office, which we need to bring once and for all, and to put responsibility on the subject. Because each entity is not an enemy to itself or to its own enterprise. He's interested in buying the product cheaper. He is interested in making the product reliable and quality. Where he buys it, at what price and so forth, it is not a subject of discussion or an object to investigate this customs or other service. So this problem, in my opinion, as set out in this legislative act, is more problematic, broader and needs to be brought back to it. And I'm here using the opportunity to bring this question together once and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u89	As is the case in European countries. In European countries, no one ever asks what price you bought in Ukraine and drove to Ukraine. Yeah, I bought it, I paid my taxes, it's your responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Once again, I recall the conclusion of the committee: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The main scientific and expert administration is not so categorical, it believes that the bill can be recommended to the Supreme Council for adoption as a basis. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of terms of supply. [[11:59:25]] For 257 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, let's continue our work. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies is being announced for consideration. [[on stimulating regulation]] [[10338]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:32:00]] For 169 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Sergey Czech. The Coroner is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u92	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, Honourable People's Deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on Natural Monopolies, developed by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine and submitted to the Supreme Council for the implementation of the National Action Plan 2011-2012 for the implementation of the Programme of Economic Reform "Affective Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State", approved by the relevant decrees of the President of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to introduce a new model for regulating natural monopolies. The introduction of amendments to legislation is particularly necessary for the granting of a body that regulates the activities of natural monopolies, a broader range of powers that strengthens the independence of the regulator and allows the transition from an active system of regulation of the value of natural monopolies to stimulating regulation. The introduction of incentive regulation will allow for transparent and consistent pricing policies by setting long-term tariffs for at least 3 years and their annual adjustment or indexation rules, improving the financial situation of natural monopolies, providing them with the resources needed to service and restore technical infrastructure, increasing their investment attractiveness, creating incentives for natural monopolies to reduce inefficient costs, similar to that of consumers in a competitive environment, to obtain reliable and quality goods, services that match their fair value. The bill is in agreement with all interested executive authorities without notice. Given the importance of it, please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u93	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Yuri Voropeiev, deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u94	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! This bill was considered at the meeting of our Economic Policy Committee on 15 May this year. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis for first reading. The main innovation of this bill is that the issues of public regulation of prices for natural monopolies, for the goods of natural monopolies will be regulated, until now they have been regulated by the Nazis alone, from then on, if we adopt this law and it enters into force legally, they will be governed not by a single public body, but by an entire collegiate body in the face of three State bodies. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Expert Office recommends that it be sent for further work. I've seen this conclusion from the Chief Executive. They believe that it would be better to provide for the order and procedure to encourage public regulation of pricing issues. Well, I think it'll work out until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u95	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who will speak on this matter? Sign up then. People's deputies' names on the board, please. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u96	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The author of the bill did not say that the reason for this bill was that, he said, regulation was being applied at a time when the planned economy was in operation, and when the market economy was in effect, the state regulation could not have any positive effect. To that end, he said, and a stimulating regulation was introduced. That is to say, the State as a whole and those authorities that regulate the tariffs of natural monopolies have failed to deal with this issue and want to place a natural nature on the market. Well, here's the thing, you see, there's going to be an investment attraction for these natural monopolies, and here's the railway, and the connections, and the power supply, and the pipeline, and the gas supply, and so on. So it's an investment attraction. So the tariffs are going to go up. What, then, will we tell our electorate? Is such regulation linked and usually rising tariffs for all types of services associated with the President’s recent social initiatives? That is why I believe that this bill cannot be supported and I call on the people's deputies to support my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, who else is insisting on the performance? None. Let me remind you that the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that it is appropriate to send a bill for further work. The voting is governed by the first rule on the adoption of the draft law, registration number 10338 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on enabling regulation]] [[12:38:50]] For 238. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve vocational and technical education. [[Registration number 9587]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. [[12:39:23]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports Boris Žebrovski. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you immediately that the Committees of the Supreme Council have largely supported the bill. In addition, he was considered and supported by every regional administration and every education department in all 27 regions of Ukraine. What is the main purpose of the bill? Increase the quality of vocational education. There's a lot of factors. I would just like to point out that the ministry has also studied the international experience. For three years, the Ukrainian-Canadian decentralization project has been working on the management of trade and technology, and it has been studied in Germany, Austria, Russia. It's in the explanatory note. Where to begin? Of course, it's funding. As early as 2007, an experiment began in Kiev, Lviv, and Kharkiv areas on the transfer of funding to certain administrations and administrations, some of them. The conclusions are positive. It should be noted that the project mostly uses compromise and agreeable words. For example, the bill proposes to address issues of improving vocational and technical education by increasing the role of local authorities or by contributing to the creation of the necessary conditions for young people in the area of acquisition of vocational education. It is also proposed to grant students the right of vocational and technical schools to free and indemnified use of cultural, physical and sports objects. Schools and students can do it, but PTNZ students can't do it, it's absurd. And finally, about the comments. Articles 6, 19, 119, 120 of the Constitution do not deny the exercise of powers by regional governments, including those delegated by the State. The proposed draft law presents the Cabinet of Ministers, which means that it may and may support the transfer and delegation of individual provisions to local government administrations under article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to improve the quality of our professions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u100	So let's rely on the creativity of teachers and masters, the indifference of people in their hometowns and villages, they can see more. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u101	Thank you, too. Maxim Grigorovich Lutsky, head of the Committee on Science and Education, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u102	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on 11 April 2012, reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving vocational and technical education, No. 9587. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, on Vocational and Technical Education, specifying the powers of the local self-government authorities and executive authorities in the field of vocational and technical education by temporarily transferring the individual powers of the relevant central executive authorities to the administration of the professional and technical institutions of the state ownership of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev and Sebastopol city authorities, the appointment order and requirements of the head of the professional and technical institution, the forms of knowledge control, skills and skills of the students of the relevant educational institutions, etc. The Committee on Budget Issues concludes that the bill has no impact on the budgetary indicators and, if the law is adopted, it can take effect in the proposed terms. In doing so, it is stressed that the distribution of powers for the management of vocational and technical education should be carried out at the expense of the budget and within the limits of the budget allocated to the respective functions of the central and territorial authorities each year. The Committee on State Building and Self - Government suggests that the project be adopted in the first reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the first reading of the bill makes it appropriate to direct the subject of the legislative initiative. The Committee on Education and Science agrees with a number of comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, however, we can recommend that it be accepted in the first reading on the basis of further consideration of the subjects of the law - abiding initiative. And take into account the observations of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. So the proposal is to take the bill as a basis, and then work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u103	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please sign up, Your Honor, to discuss the matter. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u104	MP Group Reforms for the Future, Mikolayevščina. Dear colleagues, today our economy is experiencing a sharp deficit in skilled workers, especially in the real economy. Because in some businesses, the average age of workers is approaching the retirement age, and there is a steady increase in the aging rate of the workforce. In Ukraine, on average, 1 out of 6 economically active persons is over 50, and 1 out of every 14 is older. In addition, a negative demographic balance should be added, which also hinders the normal reproduction of the labor force. Instead, the labour market today requires mobility and competitiveness and a proper level of qualification for workers. And this, in turn, requires the direct interaction of local authorities, vocational and technical schools, business and manufacturing. In our view, the adoption of the bill will provide an opportunity to strengthen the role of local self - government authorities and to focus on the development of the labour potential, with maximum regard to the needs of the local labour market. In view of the noted MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction, this bill will be supported. But what I want to say from myself is to the Deputy Minister of Education that it would actually be very, very good if this bill clearly prescribed not only an increase in roles and promotion, but a clear set of indicators to provide education today. Because in a situation like this, the pitiful state in which there is professional education today is, in fact, very and very bad. So that it doesn't happen in a way that the Ministry of Education can't take it anymore and they've switched it to local self-government, and today the problems in local self-government are enough without professional education. So I wanted the cost to be provided to finance this very, very needed sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u105	People's Deputy Korgee, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u106	Please give the floor to colleague Hanushtak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u107	Yuri Hanushka, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u108	Ladies and gentlemen! When we make decisions about the transfer of such powers, we need to understand the logic of what the criteria for this transfer should be. These criteria are set out in the budget code, article 86. I think this is one of the most central articles of this document, which is the second since the Constitution. And there are such things as state authority, and what might be local authority? Next, the criteria for how local powers are divided by levels. We're trying to mix it up again. I repeat the criteria. If the authorization is evenly located throughout the territory according to the level to which it is transferred, it may be passed. If there are clear criteria that this is the quality of the success indicator, you can pass it on. If all of this is not available, it must remain with the one who dictates state policy. It's not all there. In fact, we don't have a net of profits all over the country. Here, however, it is proposed that local self-government authorities be empowered at the base level, not even at the district level, but at the base level. It's a huge mess. I'll also tell you something else, if we're going to be complex, then we need to make changes to the Budget Code. Because we're ripping out of context, and let's hand over who has the money, let him finance it. Well, it doesn't. That's not how it works. If we want to make a normal law, we need to look at it the way it should be considered, the opposite.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u109	Vladimir Moisik, the faction of "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" refers the right to speak to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u110	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, today May 22nd is the day of burial in Ukraine of Taras Shevchenk. Ukrainians go to Shevchenk’s monuments, Taras’s mountain rises, and everyone asks about Shevchenk, and the fact that until now, Ukraine’s tobacco industry is in charge of Ukrainian education and is destroying everything Ukrainian as soon as possible. I've just called all the girls in Ukrainian who are studying in graduate school, "Not the pretty girls," and I quote him so softly. Well, as many ministers as there were before the Smoker, no one thought of such a fool. And this one, you can do anything. Nobody tells him anything. Next. In Poland all schools are in regular order, although there is also Euro-2012. We have a complete avalanche: children from schools are released, almost expelled, all tangled, external independent evaluation as it is, the graphs are all broken. This is how Tobacco manages its educational industry. And that's what the professional worlds are talking about, and the third time we're considering this law. The purpose of this law is to give houses, places of work to those nudists who want to buy these buildings in areas that are priceless. Thus, it is suggested that, according to a representative of the Ministry of Education, the first step is to pass on to the administration in a soft form. And the next step is the ownership of those people who want to take this PTU away, and so there's no trade-in-the-business centers anywhere near it. This is another contribution from Ukraine’s phobic and non-professional Tobacco to Ukrainian education. And we are again required to vote for it. There was a minister of Nikolainko who worked three governments -- the government of Timoshenko, the government of Yehanurov and the government of Yanukovich, by the way. He lay bones so as not to give up the local authority of the professional world. Because I wanted to keep it. Now they want to destroy. We don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u111	Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u112	Please give the word to the colleague of Zarubin Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u113	Oleg Zarubinsky, Oleg Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u114	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues! Since the bill concerns vocational and technical education, I'm not going to talk about education at all, about the minister and about my phobias. I would like to stop at what is an objective state of modern vocational and technical education. And perhaps considering this bill or other legislative initiatives, what can be done to change this situation? Today, equipment is used in the classrooms, in the fields, in the laboratories, in the fields, in the schools, in the educational farms, in equipment, in technology, including agriculture, with an average of up to 10 years - 4 percent, from 10 to 20 years - 36 percent, over 20 years - 60 percent. These are objective indicators. And you can scream or not scream, but they're not changing the system of vocational and technical education, and they're going to cause it to really be destroyed. And to say that it needs to be restored will make no sense. Clearly, the limitation of budget spending over the years has caused such a moral, I would say, both moral and physical aging of the resource base. In turn, I can't help but say that it's interesting enough how government spending is distributed in countries that we consider to be advanced, developed, civilized. In Germany, for example, 39 percent is central funding, 47 percent is regional, 13 percent local. In Austria, 72 percent are central, 25 percent are regional and 2 percent are local. Obviously, the question is to use and understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u115	Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u116	I'm done. Thank you. . To use those scientific expertise proposals to bring this bill to a more perfect appearance in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Communist faction insists. Vladimir Leschenko, please have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u118	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! The Deputy Minister of Education and Science spoke of the bill being challenged, as if, by improving the quality of education. But the main point is to change the management system of vocational and technical education. That is, pass it on from the state to local self-government. Most of all, it's funding. So, until the State financed, it was more or less normal. There are two examples in Chernigov. The higher vocational school of domestic services is funded and now from the state, from the state budget, everything is fine. And the number 6 vocational school from the woodworking industry has already been transferred to the local budget. There has already been a problem with funding. These scholarships have already come into existence, not all of them being paid to their children. Shortening states, that sort of thing. And debt on scholarships at other trade schools. Therefore, the support of this bill will only lead to the destruction of the system of vocational education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u119	Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, it is important to remember that vocational and technical education should long be passed on to the region. Only there do they know how many workers and how special we should prepare. It doesn't have to be the Ministry's prerogative, it has to be the region's concern. Therefore, the financing of PTU should be transferred to the region. And this is the world practice of civilized European countries. The bill can only be supported in the first reading. However, consider what is said in the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. First, we're going to vote on a regulatory proposal, namely the adoption of a project as a basis. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Registration number 9587. This is a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve vocational and technical education. Please vote. [[12:56:48]] For 236 Decision taken. I am announcing a draft law on the implementation of the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine. The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:57:18]] For 215 Decision taken. The reporter is Rays Moseyenko, First Deputy Minister of Health. The correspondent is the Deputy Head of the Vitaly Corge Health Committee. Please, Raisa Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u122	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria is one of the largest international financial institutions in the world, which generally invests the world’s money resources to save lives directly linked to AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. As far as this fund is concerned, the Global Fund has already allocated $326 million to Ukraine, which the state does not need to pay back. In the context of systematic underfunding of measures to combat tuberculosis and AIDS, this aid is extremely important and tangible. Yes, the funds that are taxed for Ukraine and as a result we lose another 20 percent of these costs as a result of the full application of the normative acts that apply to work as the Global Fund and to our territory in Ukraine. The Global Fund has systematically highlighted the need to address these issues, which will improve the efficiency of aid grants and use these 20 percent of the funds specifically for the benefit of patients. One of the issues that is being addressed by this law is the lack of an effective mechanism to control how public organizations spend these costs, directly grants, this is being settled. At present, it is said that the Global Fund has allocated an unprecedentedly large grant of $300 million for the first time. Today, the recipients of this grant will for the first time, in fact, not social organizations, but including the participation of the Ukrainian Centre for Prevention and Control of AIDS and Tuberculosis, and the participation of sub-recipients: this is the Ministry of Education, Science, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Social Policy, which are defined as sub-recipients.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u123	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u124	Thank you. Thus, this project regulates the order of receipt, distribution, use of funds, and control and audit of targeted and correct, quality use. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u125	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Victor Petrovich Korz, deputy head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to address one of the leaders of "The People's Self-Defense, Our Ukraine," who was speaking here. And he's always giving marks to politicians, ministers, government officials. I'd like to advise him to be more modest and self-critical, because he was also sitting in that office, where he and Dmitri Tobacco, and he promised with President Yushchenk 5 million jobs, and he even reported on the first million. We realize that this is the outsourcing of what is desired for what is real. And unfortunately, the level is limited to political talk. So I would like to emphasize that. And now, essentially. The Health Committee considered the April 11, 2012, bill. It's very important and it's really focused on addressing the issues of how Ukraine can use the global fund's grants to fight AIDS and tuberculosis. Unfortunately, Ukraine today is no exception to this problem. The question is defined by the President of our State, Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, as a priority for action. We have been tasked with reducing the rate of spread of HIV infection by 13 percent by 2015. Next, we are the second in Europe today in the world’s fifth century C.E. at the rate of spread of these infections. Nearly 60 Ukrainian citizens are diagnosed with HIV each day. Dear colleagues, 21,000 new cases of HIV infection have officially been reported in 2011. Epistaxis analysis is very unsatisfactory. This epidemic is a major challenge to the economy of our country. As politicians, therefore, we understand the importance of taking effective action to combat AIDS. Expansion to appropriate ART therapy today allows for an increase in the number of people affected by the epidemic by 41 percent. The Global Fund has already allocated $326 million to Ukraine to fight AIDS. Taking into account the cost. 25,000 people have already received help. But there is today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u127	Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u128	Today, there is a problem that needs to be solved: it is the loss of 20 percent of that cost. That's why I'm asking by the transcript our decision to listen to the committee. We will need to amend, not the One Customs Tariff Act of Ukraine, but the new Customs Code of Ukraine, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 13 March and signed by the President. This is due to the fact that the acquisition of the new Customs Code repeals the Single Customs Tariff Act. People's deputies would like to support this fine law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u129	Have a seat, please. Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Soroczynska Kirilenko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the Reform Group for the Future will support this bill. And I want to point out that for seven years in Ukraine, the Global Fund has been providing assistance in the fight against listed infectious diseases. A very large educational work was carried out in support of this fund. More than three million young people, students, and students were trained, trained, and well - trained. In 2007, AIDS nearly tripled. I want to let you know that 326 million dollars have been allocated to the TB prevention program, which should not be returned. And I assure you today that only the actions of the government, parliament, in the workplaces must be put in place to help resolve these issues in our country. I believe that this bill needs to be supported and that it must be given the funds for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u131	Vladimir Karpuk, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u132	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, this important bill is to be supported with the aim of making effective use of the funds allocated by the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria for Ukrainians, because the Global Fund has repeatedly paid attention to the gaps in legislation and the efficiency of using these funds in Ukraine. It was difficult for the first period to accept an application from Ukraine and to allocate funds. Now, really, 326 million dollars are being allocated, which are being used pretty effectively. In Ukraine, the number of people receiving antiretroviral therapy is increasing quite rapidly, to this day it is 6,000 people, and in the future it will increase to 26,000 when it comes to the next cost of this grant. Success in treatment, especially in prevention of transmission of HIV infection from a mother who is ill or who is carrying HIV-AIDS to a child. And the rate of increase in HIV-AIDS in recent years has also declined virtually at the same time. That's why there are successes. These funds were used by public organizations, especially through public organizations that are active in the fight against HIV-AIDS and tuberculosis. And here's an interesting detail, for example, I've also heard for the first time that because of Reneta Ahemtova's Development Fund, 92 million dollars have been allocated through the global fund, which is directed at what goes into the pyariary as the allocation of funds through only Renata Ahmedova's fund. That is why this law must be adopted. We really need to address the flaws in our legislation, to do all that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u133	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u134	And make sure that these funds are used effectively for Ukraine’s health.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u135	Thank you. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u136	Sirs and gentlemen, I don't share the euphoria that's in the hall about this bill. First of all, there is no need to cover up the fight against AIDS, tuberculosis, and other diseases. Because good intentions lead the way to hell. Look what it says. It says that there will be no tendering procedures. So we clearly legitimize corruption in this state. I want to remind you that the global fund is actually working on World Bank procurement procedures that are extremely perfect. And the level of corruption in purchases that are done under World Bank procedures is considered to be minimal, virtually zero. And all the funds and European procurement legislation are based on World Bank procedures. We're going to eliminate these procedures. Well, why? That's obviously because the program's recipient is the Renata Amhtova Foundation, as TB was taken by the Pinchuck Foundation. Then look, well, duty-free, well, first of all, if you want to get fired, you have to put a zero rate on customs payments, except for the incoming VAT. Because the goods that we have in our customs territory, they're getting a refund on their outgoing VAT, so we have to have a plus and nowhere else it's going, it's going into the budget. And if you release, it's just the drugs, because it's going to be the same thing that we had with the free economic zones when they were taking the thigh to the right areas and covering up because there's not going to be any control in this respect. I guarantee it, because I know it wasn't once. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u137	Thank you. Zuravian Vitaly, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the proposal of article 7 of the draft does not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Tax Code, which states that, I quote, "There are questions about taxation that are regulated by this code and cannot be established or amended by other laws other than those that contain exclusive provisions for amending the Code." This article should therefore be deleted, and this should be taken into account when preparing the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee is proposing, I remind you, to adopt the bill as a basis. There's a number of comments from the science and science management about the project. I would like to vote on the position of the committee, as well as the Rules, on the basis of the draft Law on the Implementation of the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine. [[Registration number10121]] Please vote. [[13:10:52]] For 275 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 186, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 13, communists – 23, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 12. Respectful colleagues, taking into account the importance and urgency of this law, have put to the vote the proposal to have the committee prepare him for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:11:38]] For 264 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on renewable energy sources. [[registration number 8455]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[13:12:09]] For 226 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Head of the State Energy Efficiency and Energy Agency, Mikola Paskević. The focal point is the head of the committee, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u140	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on renewable energy sources, designed by the Agency to adapt Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, simplifying the permit system in the field of renewable energy and unifying technology in the field. He was introduced to the Supreme Council on April 28, last year. The bill provides for the simplification of the permit system by excluding the requirement to obtain five permits for the construction of renewable energy objects set out in article 6 of the Ukrainian Alternative Energy Act. As part of the introduction of a green tariff on electricity produced from renewable energy sources, it is very relevant today to provide guarantees of the origin of this electricity, the order of which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In accordance with the bill, the authority empowered by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should confirm such a guarantee. The bill also harmonizes terminology. Because today the current legislation uses the terms "alternative energy sources", "renewable and non-traditional energy sources", "renewable energy sources". However, since 1 January of this year, the European Parliament and Council directive, which has been drafted by the bill, has become obsolete. The new directive of the European Parliament and of the EU Council, which is slightly different from the previous directive, has been adopted in its replacement. In order to bring the bill into line with the requirements of the new European Union directive on renewable energy sources, the Agency acknowledges that the bill needs to be finalized. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u141	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Martinenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u142	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security reviewed the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on renewable energy sources. [[No. 8455]] [[of 28 April 2011]] [[author - Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine]] As a result of the committee’s consideration, a decision was made on the need for substantive drafting of the document due to gross errors and disagreements both with national and European legislation. This was also accepted by the drafters of the bill. The committee's proposal is based on this. In particular, the amendments to article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Fuels propose that the word "non-traditional" be replaced by the word "renewable". In this case, according to the bill, renewable sources of energy will fall under oil, gas crops, heavy oil varieties, natural bitumen, gas-saturated water, which strongly contradict the definition of renewable energy in the 77th EU Directive. Nor has there been a single point of view regarding the powers and spheres of regulation of individual public authorities. The bill provides in article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Alternative Sources of Energy for Energy Efficiency and Energy to be established and approved by the State Agency for Energy Efficiency and Energy. Since the committee believes that it is energy, the governing body in energy, or NCRE, should do so. Thus, if the bill is adopted on a basis, the initiatives I have made to regulate the comments I have made will be contrary to article 116 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. In view of the above, the committee proposes that the subject be reinstated with the right of legislative initiative to draft the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! Thank you, too. Let us perhaps not go into discussion. Shall we consider a proposal for a comeback committee? Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Kenzior is transferring the right to speak to Stanislav Argewittin. Then the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u144	Dear National Deputies! My warning is on the proposals made to the Electricity Act, especially in the construction of mini-electric power plants. Because there's now a green corridor for the sale of this electricity. A change in licenses, simplified regimes, of course, it's all good. Adaptation to international legislation is also good. The only problem is that all of this is done in Ukrainian and under whom. Changes are proposed to introduce simplified systems, arbitrary systems. Variation of some licensing, including in the construction of minielectric power plants. State policy can now move into the area of the construction of minielectric power plants to such a kind of permissiveness and uncontrolled construction. These factors, of course, have caused the reaction of Ukrainian entrepreneurs, and today in the Zakartat region, through local authorities, the desire of 350 investors who want to build mini hydropower plants has already been expressed. In Ivano-Frankiv region, almost 150. In Lvivska, Chernivetskie, almost two dozen. We understand that this will lead to the death of fauna and flora, and to the collapse of tourism. I'm not talking about flood control anymore. Deputies of the Carpathian region of Dávimuk, Kossov, Schlemko, Tkak, today’s nominee, Stojko, Arzvetin, Gudima approached the President of Ukraine to stop such uncontrolled construction. If we want to adapt to international standards, let's do it in Switzerland, for example, collecting water into reserves, then pumping it up, then running hydropower stations around and around. We have, you know, all the rivers at the top of the Carpathians will be thrown into the pipes. Today, one village head decides. Because it's all built up at private expense. So I think this bill with such benefits is part of what I said I should send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u145	Yes, Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? Okay. Dear colleagues, then we will follow the Rules strictly. I am voting on the first proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on renewable energy sources. If you don't support this proposal, then the bill's return will be voted on. [[13:20:13]] For 264 Decision taken. So the bill was adopted as a basis. A draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the conditions of admission to Ukrainian citizenship]] I am voting for a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, and I ask the rapporteurs to be prepared. [[13:20:45.]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteurs are the National Deputy of Ukraine Ivan Mikhailovich Stojko and the First Deputy Minister of Interior Sergey Petrovich Černech. Be sure to determine who will report from the committee. Please, Ivan Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u146	Thank you. Ivan Stojko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Civil Society Act. [[on improving the conditions of admission to Ukrainian citizenship]] A few words about the substance of the bill itself. According to the current edition of article 9 of the Ukrainian Nationality Act, one of the conditions for the naturalization of a person is the possession of a national language or his understanding of the extent to which he is able to communicate. My bill proposes to complement the stated requirement by establishing that language should include the ability to read, write and speak in the national language, including knowledge of the basics of history, the political and economic system, the basic traditions of the Ukrainian people, which are, by the way, European practices. Such a situation is primarily due to the imperfections of today’s legislation in the area of citizenship because of its legal gaps. The bill is also designed to implement the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine for the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, its historical consciousness, tradition and culture by satisfying the legal, historical, national and linguistic needs of future Ukrainian citizens. Unfortunately, my bill was not supported on the profile committee, but for the sake of justice, I would like to point out that the committee has found it appropriate to use the position of my bill in the drafting and drafting of a bill tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for second reading. I understand that most people today are also not meant to support my bill, so, given the above-mentioned proposal, I will support the decision of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u147	Thank you, too. First Deputy Interior Minister Sergey Petrovich Chernych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u148	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on citizenship is proposed for consideration. The bill is designed to implement the requirement of article 4 of the Constitution of Ukraine on single citizenship by reducing dual citizenship cases. The project introduces a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Nationality Act, notably by supplementing article 2 of the current law, which establishes principles on which the Ukrainian legislation on citizenship is based, namely, the prevention of the emergence of multiple citizenship. In addition, it is suggested that a substantial reduction be made in the number of persons who, according to applicable legislation, have the right to submit a declaration of refusal to foreign citizenship but who do not lose it in fact and to set up a duty for individuals who have acquired Ukrainian citizenship to return the passport of a foreign State to its authorized authorities. The draft Act also envisions the obligation of a Ukrainian citizen to report on the acquisition of foreign citizenship, as well as the establishment of administrative responsibility for the timely submission of a full - time Ukrainian citizen who voluntarily acquired foreign citizenship, to declare this. The bill amends a number of other laws of Ukraine to include restrictions on the state and military service for persons who, at the same time with Ukrainian citizenship, are in the citizenship of another state, namely: "The State Service", "The Ukrainian Security Service", "The Police", "The Prosecutor's Office". The adoption of the law will promote compliance by citizens of Ukraine with legislation and reduce the number of cases of dual citizenship. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate for the bill, there are comments to be made that will be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, has been asked to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u149	Thank you, too. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkovic. Please, Yuri Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! You've seen that there are two bills: one from our colleague, Deputy Stoick, and the other from the Cabinet of Ministers. They're defined as alternatives, but they're a little bit different for their purpose, problems that they're facing. I'd say they're different. The Stoika colleague's bill amends article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, and it reinforces the demands on people who want to acquire Ukrainian citizenship. In particular, it establishes the obligation to read, write, and speak in national language and to have knowledge from the background of history, the political and economic system of Ukraine, the basic traditions of the Ukrainian people, and those who ask for citizenship. This should be accepted, but the committee believes that these issues should be dealt with in a comprehensive manner, along with other problems of citizenship, such as the problem of dual citizenship. The bill introduced by Kabmin is called: "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on citizenship." It reinforces demands and significantly reduces the number of cases of dual citizenship. It's supposed to make changes to a number of laws in Ukraine, it's a lot of laws, it's about the State Service, it's about the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it's about the Service of Local Government Authorities, it's about the election of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and so on. So the requirements for persons who are in another state's citizenship at the same time -- you can't take them to work with these bodies that I've listed. If you briefly describe this bill, it is, according to the committee, more complex and certainly better prepared. Our committee has always been anxious to consider such bills, especially for such a bill as is as serious as a bill concerning citizenship.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u151	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u152	Our committee decided to reject Stoika's bill and to recommend the adoption of a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers, although according to members of the committee, it is proposed that the John Stoick bill be taken into account in the drafting of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Names of the national MPs, please. Olga Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u154	Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Dear colleagues, people who want to become citizens of one state or another, should have the basic points of knowledge about politics, the economy, the history of taps, knowing its language, there is no other way to integrate into society, there is no other way to raise respect in new citizens for the country where they want to take root. The Stoika colleague's bill is very necessary and relevant. By adopting it, we will not only standardize matters according to the standards of other states, but we will also signal to Ukrainian citizens that their country, language, history, should be respected, that we should have an elementary idea about it, not just to use it as a territory of looting and enrichment. That's why the faction supports Mr. Stoick's bill. The government bill introduces certain safeguards to cover a number of positions for dual citizens. But, dear colleagues, for some reason, no words are spoken of by the national deputies of Ukraine. And that's why we think that since the bills are alternative, we're going to support Mr. Stoick's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u155	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u156	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! The draft laws currently under consideration are extremely important to our nation. We have a very large number of cases today where, having literally lived for a few years, citizens or officials from neighbouring countries come to Ukraine, and together, without knowing the language or tradition or the history of the state they came to, that is, Ukraine, they suddenly become great officials in our country, even becoming members of the government. And that's why not adopting this law, where, in my opinion, there must be a very clear condition for getting a citizenship document for Ukraine, what every esteeming state does, this candidate for a Ukrainian citizen has, if you've said it here, an exam of both Ukrainian and Ukrainian history, and knowledge of, as it were, our traditions, customs, that he should not walk this, new-hot, give credit for such a statement, citizens of the white crow in our society. I don't know how the problem needs to be solved when we have thousands and thousands of Ukrainian citizens today who carry one or more, or more, or more passports, or that are strictly prohibited by the Ukrainian Constitution. I would, well, leaning towards the thought of one of the authors -- John Stoick, our colleague -- still insist that, and he insists that he agrees with the support of the government project, but take away all these necessary positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u157	Complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u158	In order to include these provisions in the draft law, the author of which is John Stojko, and thus to strengthen the government project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u159	John Popescu's right to speak is transmitted by a colleague of Kiselov's, a faction of the Party of the Regions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u160	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! Both laws apply to the acquisition of Ukrainian legislation, but they apply to various aspects. The first bill, 9728, proposes to add to article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act, in which, by the way, one condition of the naturalization of a person's language or understanding of a person's language is sufficient to communicate, such moments as the rule of state, the language should include the ability to read, write, speak in a national language, I don't see any problems here. But it goes on to say, including knowledge of the foundations of history, political and economic order, of the basic traditions of the Ukrainian people. I want to remind you that, according to the Constitution, the Ukrainian people, and you have a large-letter Ukrainian people, they are citizens of all nationalities. And the question is, how do you do all these traditions? The second question is, who's going to develop these tests from the text of the project? Third moment. It is also not clear whether the State assumes the obligation to provide appropriate knowledge for foreigners. And if the state does not provide this knowledge, then how will it require it? As a result, such an approach can be seen as the imposition of excessive restrictions on citizenship, and here we already have a question with the European Convention on Citizenship. In line with what article 5, it says that it provides for a simplified system of citizenship. In order to avoid these collisions, we need to work on this. As for the second bill, 9728. So it is proposed that a foreigner who has received Ukrainian citizenship be provided with a three - month period for the application of a declaration of refusal of foreign citizenship should give his passport. If he fails to give a passport to an appropriate institution, that could be the reason why he should be deprived of Ukrainian citizenship. As a result, the Party of Regions will speak for a bill of 9728-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u161	Finish up, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u162	Because we're pushing for a reduction in quantity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u163	Vladimir Caplienko. I'm sorry, Valentin Matthews, Communist faction. Then Cappleyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u164	I'd like to give the floor to Valery Bezz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u165	Valerius Ananiyovich Beaz, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u166	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! For good reason, colleague Gnatkovic spoke of the complexity of this problem. The point is that the first bill proposed by colleague Stoick seems to us to be more inclined, as it were, to the problems that we discussed under the Language Law. As for the Cabinet bill, it is more professional and, in our view, is now subject to vote. Why? Because all the issues of registration, re-entry, citizenship and state response are absolutely fair. Moreover, we need to agree with the idea that we have today, or with the realities that we have today, especially when the urban, rural heads are already two or three citizens. And the state would have to do something about that. Therefore, from these very positions, the Communist Party faction will support the bill of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u167	Vladimir Caplieko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u168	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Representatives of the House of Representatives "For the Future Reforms" will support the bill marked "1". And we'll get out of the next one. Clearly, our colleague Stojak’s initiative deserves attention. In fact, in most countries in Europe, in the United States, Canada, you need to have ideas about language, political order, culture, and so forth about the country to which you come. However, I support my colleague Beviz's argument that with the sign of "1" the bill is more professional, it can be based on it, it's broader. However, these two laws regulate completely different positions: one for dual citizenship, the other for the quality of a citizen held by a state or another. I just wanted to draw attention to the fact that the struggle against dual citizenship is a top priority for our nation today. The instruments of influence on Ukraine that can be passed on to Georgia or Ossetia, which were used by our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I put to the vote first the bill of John Stoick and then the next one as required by the Rules. I am voting on the proposal for acceptance on the basis of Project 9728 to amend article 9 of the Ukrainian Citizenship Act. [[on improving the conditions of admission to Ukrainian citizenship]] Please identify yourself. [[13:37:31]] For 121 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on citizenship. Please vote. [[13:37:59]] For 267 Decision taken. A draft Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on the Final and Transitional Provisions of Ukraine on the collection and payment of a single contribution to the general government social insurance is being announced. [[on the promotion of payment of current payments and repayment of arrears to the Ukrainian Pension Fund]] There is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for voting. Please vote. [[13:38:41]] For 233 Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Nadrag Vasil. The reporter is Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u170	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, a draft act designed to encourage insurers to pay their current payments on a single contribution to a general government social insurance policy. The draft law provides that the payers are not liable for payment of a single contribution, or who, within six months of the date of entry into force of the Single Social Contribution Act, have paid off their new debt and applied to the relevant pension fund body, have the right to extend the amounts of the debt due from the payment of insurance premiums which are outstanding on the day of the contract to schedule the amounts of the debt and the payment of the insurance premiums for the period up to 31 December 2010, respectively without payment of the fines. Distresses are carried out within 24 months. The Pension Fund body shall, within ten days from the date of receipt of the application, decide on the extension of the debt and make a contract with the payer to extend the amounts of the payment of the contributions in the form approved by the Pension Fund. A breakup agreement is necessary if the payer did not pay the full amount of the lost payments. An insurance company that properly fulfils the terms of the contract, fines, and pennies associated with this debt are subject to write - off. The implementation of the Ukrainian bill does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u171	Thank you, sit down. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Georgievovich Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! A number of enterprises have faced a difficult situation with a single social contribution. As at 31 December 2010, this debt amounted to 1 billion 700 million. By the way, 900 million already under a single social tax, and 800 million before you and I decided to impose a single social tax. A normal solution is proposed if we accept, and I think we will adopt this law, within a six-year period, an enterprise that pays at least the last six months of its regular contribution, a single social contribution, makes a statement. And for 24 months he is restructured and given normal pay opportunities and cancels any foam that is, of course, snowballed on these enterprises. I think it will benefit both businesses with difficulties and a pension fund that receives a single social contribution. And we have the opportunity, within one calendar year, to return one billion additional to the pension fund, which will then be transferred to all the other funds. The Committee has considered the bill and proposes that it be adopted as a basis. In principle, we could adopt it in general today as a law. I beg your pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Is there a need to discuss this? Please sign in if there is. Names of the national MPs, please. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u174	In principle, this bill is of a technical nature indeed. Because it's about restructuring debt for those enterprises that still have a chance to pay the only social contribution to the pension fund. Of course, it's probably the only option when there's an enterprise that works to ensure people's work, today, well, because that's what happened, it has some problems with the Pension Fund, and this debt is being restructured for 24 months. So there's a real possibility that you could extend your debt to that term. Our MPs will support this bill, taking into account that it will actually make it a little bit easier for businesses that actually work and work transparently and have some relationship with the Pension Fund. So we're really going to extend this hand of help and we're asking Parliament to do the same. And it is possible even to vote today not only on the basis but also on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u175	Thank you. That concludes the question. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on the Final and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance". [[on the promotion of payment of current payments and repayment of arrears to the Ukrainian Pension Fund]] [[Registration number 10028]] Please vote. [[13:44:27]] For 259. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a suggestion that, if there is no objection, we would accept this project as a bill. Is there no objection? No, it's not. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Ukrainian Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on the Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance" as a whole as a law. [[on the promotion of payment of current payments and repayment of arrears to the Ukrainian Pension Fund]] [[Registration number 10028]] Please vote. [[13:45:22]] For 258. The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation is being announced for consideration. [[9747]] The committee proposes to adopt a bill, to consider a bill with a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:45:56]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, Peter Petrovich Yatsuk. Coroner is the deputy head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u176	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law to amend some Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation. It was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, registration number 9747. The draft legislation developed by the NHRI to implement paragraph 54 of the 2011 plan of action for the implementation of the State-wide programme for the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation. The aim of the bill is to improve communication legislation, create conditions to meet consumer demand in modern and high-quality telecommunications services, bring Ukraine's telecom legislation into line with EU legislation. The bill provides for the introduction of the Telecommunications Act in accordance with the Law on the Allowance of Economic Activities in part of the licensing mechanisms for the use of the numbered resource, namely, the proposal to determine that the license to use the numbered resource is a document of a permissive nature. A comprehensive list of grounds for refusal, conversion, extension, cancellation and issuance of a copy of the license is established. In doing so, it is proposed to refer to the Office of Ministers to the establishment of the order of issuance, the extension of the period of operation, the conversion, the issuance of duplicates and the cancellation of licenses for use of the numbered resource. In addition, the amendments to the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Resource Act propose that the number of licenses for use by Ukraine that can be issued for a particular radio technology should be determined under the NHRIs and that it should refer to the authority of the government to establish import controls from abroad, production, implementation, circulation and use of radio-electronics and radiation devices. This bill is foreshadowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u177	Yeah, you got it? Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Moroko Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Transport and Communications Committee considered Bill 9747, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill has been drafted in accordance with the plan of action for the implementation of the State programme for the adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to European Union legislation and is considered relevant by the Committee. It provides for the introduction of the Telecommunications Act in accordance with the Law on the Authorisation System in Business. It is also proposed to amend the Radio Frequency Act. And in the Committee's view, this would indeed make the use of radio frequency more effective. The implementation of the bill would not require additional budget costs. The adoption is also supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Budget Committee and the Committee on European Integration. The Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt Bill 9747 as a basis for its consideration on first reading. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? You don't? None. Then I put to the vote a proposal by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation. [[Registration number 9747]] Please vote. [[13:50:20]] For 254 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on financial services markets]] [[9583]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:50:47]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Andrew Volodymyrovich Litwin, a member of the National Commission for State regulation in financial services markets. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u180	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill, which was put forward for your consideration, is provided by the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme and the National Action Plan for its implementation. The essence of the bill is to two basic provisions. First of all, the project proposes to cancel the requirement to agree on certain regulatory acts, national regulators of the non-bank financial market and the stock market with an authorized authority on government regulatory policy. The abolition of such a requirement applies only to draft legislation aimed at minimising risks in the non-bank financial sector. For example, with regard to the rules on the availability of capital, the verification of the reliability of information provided to participants in the financial services market, the disclosure of information and the compilation of administrative data. At the same time, with regard to other regulatory acts, first of all, on licensing and licensing procedures, the requirement to reconcile them with a specially authorized executive body on matters of State regulatory policy will remain valid. We need to emphasize. In order to ensure transparency and predictability in the field of public relations in the non-bank financial sector and in the stock market, the project provides for procedures for the publication of relevant draft acts, as well as the mandatory publication of the results of the review of comments received and proposals from natural and legal persons, their integration into public projects. The latter is a more stringent regulatory requirement compared to existing standards. Secondly, the bill proposes to establish that national regulatory acts in the field of financial services and the stock market are subject to State registration by the Ministry of Justice. Such a requirement is firmly established for these organs today, but it must be established in the law itself, as it is done for the executive authorities. Dear people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u181	Please call on us to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u182	enhance the operational independence of regulators of non-bank financial services and the stock market, on the one hand, and strengthen mechanisms aimed at ensuring transparency and controlling the legality of their regulatory activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u183	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u184	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the main purpose of the bill is to simplify the regulatory activities of two financial non-bank regulators – the National Securities and Stock Market Commission and the National Commission for Financial Services Markets. I would like to remind you that today the similar withdrawal from the scope of the Act of Restraint is already foreseen for part of the legal and regulatory acts of the National Bank of Ukraine. The project proposes to remove from the scope of the same Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy part of the legal and regulatory acts of these committees that have been referred to. The main scientific and expert office proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading, making some constructive remarks to it. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and these proposals, which include scientific and expert management, will be taken into account in the second reading. The committee therefore proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u185	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion. Names of the National Deputies, please take them to the board. Valerius Beales, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u186	So this is literally one line, the venerable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the honourable colleagues, the absolutely fair offer, in any case, the state of credit unions or others, let's say, the structures that provide financial services, in any case, the state is ultimately responsible, and so the proposal for registration, as it were, is absolutely fair, and our faction is going to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u187	Thank you. Jaroslav Kenzior is referring to Stanislav Arzevetin's speech, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u188	Thank you, Deputy Kendzior, for the second time speaking to me. At first glance, if you read this bill, it seems that, in fact, democratic norms have been established when two commissions, one that regulates financial markets, a commission that regulates the stock market, if they were to discuss their previous draft acts with the people, if they were to be advised, is a democratic way. But of course, we understand that the standard that's been set for 15 days, well, the public won't respond so quickly in 15 days to the proposals that will be made or published by a commission or any other commission. I think that maybe we don't have to completely remove those projects that will generate these two commissions from control because this is a specially authorized central executive body on matters of government regulatory policy because we know from practice that acts that are either taken by the National Bank or by the Securities Commission or the Financial Markets Commission don't always protect the interests of ordinary people. Because these bodies have a slightly different task, and perhaps in this situation this special body should if, in fact, once such acts have been adopted, well, have a kind of veto when there is a gross and clear violation of the rights of consumers of financial services. I don't think we need to remove it, as suggested right now. I think that before the second reading, we need to write more clearly those legal instruments, after those articles that are not going to match but. And those who agree. Because that's the case with the National Bank, that's also the case with these two state commissions that work in the capital market. In general, it seems that the first reading could be supported. But of course, these remarks that I've been saying, in my opinion, are important, and they are aimed at protecting consumers of financial services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u189	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our morning session before the conclusion of our consideration of the matter. Yuri Hanustak, please microphone. Then there's one. Please speak. Please go to the rostrum. Check your card.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, really, I support Arjovitin. Because, at first glance, it's kind of a democratic norm, but I want to pay attention to the second norm, which is the rule that acts are subject to the State registration of the Ministry of Justice. We need to understand one thing. This is a market for non-state securities. So the regulator that's competent in this area is the National Bank. It's not the Justice Department. It's the National Bank. So the state is going to take full responsibility for the operation of this market and for the losses that were there. This time. Second position. The monitoring committee is currently working for the Congress of the Regional Local Councils of Europe on the implementation by Ukraine of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. And on the very day that this committee arrived, it was on this very day that a draft concept of reform of local self-government was launched by the Ukrainian Justice Minister himself. And that's a very unpleasant symptom. So we see concentration in the hands of one body of unlimited authority -- BTI, land issues. They're still actually gathering, in fact, this securities market is also being blocked by the Justice Department. Are they competent in financial matters? I firmly doubt that. The National Bank is the only regulator that is: first – objective and responsible for the integrity of Ukraine's financial system. So I'm starting to understand that this project doesn't have to be taken by definition at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u191	Thank you. National Deputy One, faction of the Party of the Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u192	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out that the proposed bill is extremely important because it provides for the balance of interests of all stakeholders and takes public opinion into account through the publication of drafts by the National Commission, which implements national regulation in the field of financial services markets and the National Commission of Securities and Stock Markets. Moreover, the positive side of these changes is the obligation to publish information on the results of the consideration of the comments and suggestions received. Today, in the face of a financial crisis in our country, it is necessary to increase the institutional capacity of national regulators and to simplify the procedures of regulations that are currently in place today. This bill addresses many procedural issues that should improve and strengthen the ability to effectively protect the rights of consumers of financial services. And I think the bill needs to be supported and accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-22-m0.u193	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main science and expertise agency also made a positive conclusion about this project. I would like to place a motion for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on financial services markets]] [[Registration number 9583]] Please vote. [[14:02:35]] For 252 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break until 4:00. At 4 p.m., we're going to start looking at the main directions of budgetary policy for 2013.
