ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:22]] They registered 401 national deputies in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues: Kirilenka Viacheslava Anatoliyovich, Steckova Taras Stepanovich. Please welcome our colleagues, wish them success in good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to provide you with information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on June 6, 2012. 12 issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 1 law and 2 decrees were passed, 1 bill was passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee for Re-reading, 5 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. Dear National Deputies! A draft Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and similar Crimes That Threaten Health Care is under consideration. There is a request to consider the matter under reduced procedure. No warning? Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[10:02:02:02]] For 207 Decision taken. Reporter of the Head of the State Service for Medical Devices, Alexei Stanislavovich Solovyov Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u2	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! In October 2011, the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and Such Crimes, which pose a health hazard, was signed in Moscow. It is called the “Medikraim” Convention. The Convention aims to prevent the criminalization of the production of and trade in counterfeit medical products, the protection of the rights of victims of such crimes, and the development of international cooperation in this area. This instrument has become the first binding international legal instrument to criminalize the falsification of drugs and such crimes that pose a health hazard. Today, 15 European countries have acceded to the Medikrim Convention. The draft Act of Ukraine on the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and Such Crimes, which poses a health risk, has been drafted with a view to ratifying the Convention in Ukraine. I ask for the bill to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Taras Cnerwell, first deputy head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u4	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Fellow citizens of Ukraine! Our emergency committee, since this draft ratification law has been overturned literally the day before, has considered this treaty and this ratification law. And we immediately had two questions, two points of our decision. First. As far as the Convention is concerned. We have clearly concluded that it is correct, necessary and must be implemented in Ukrainian legislation. We have to ratify this convention. But this convention carries a series of actions that require changes to a number of Ukrainian laws. [[Not only is it desirable, but it is required]] This is a case where ratification of the Convention can actually be a nuisance unless further legislative changes are adopted. We have these issues in Ukraine that are already regulated by existing legislation, but the Convention introduces, in fact, the right, necessary, a more stringent approach, which reinforces responsibility and expands when this responsibility arises. But if we ratify the Convention without introducing it to the Supreme Council and without adopting the relevant legislative act amending Ukraine's laws, the result will not be, they will continue to act on the standards that are in our Ukrainian legislation today, and there will be a totally unnecessary and unpleasant coalition for us that will only lead to additional scandals. And that's why we support the decision of the Chief Science and Technology Administration. As far as I know, the position of the Chief Legal Authority is in agreement. There is a decision by our committee to ratify the convention, but not today, to require the Kabmin to submit a bill to the Supreme Council to amend the laws of Ukraine that are to be amended in connection with the adoption of this Convention. So that it doesn't turn out that we're going to read to Europe, and we're going to work on our old laws. This is the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u5	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please, Stanislav Arjevitin, please. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u6	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, we must no doubt support the ratification of this Convention, not only because we are members of the Council of Europe and this is our obligation to implement it as part of our national legislation, but only because the Convention is addressing an extremely pressing problem. It's very bad when people die because they don't have drugs, but it's even worse when people die from fakes, bad drugs, and fakes. I think it's about time in Ukraine today, as the Head of the State Medical Inspectorate and Reporter Taras Crnovil said, to settle this issue in an urgent way, because we are the country where there is a great deal of counterfeiting. And in particular, the Health Committee recently, as yesterday, at its last meeting, also discussed several bills relating to counterfeits, forgeries submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which I hope we will soon consider in this room. Thus, we will certainly ratify the convention as part of national legislation and continue to work on national legislation and other legislative acts that we will be forced to adopt in connection with the ratification of the convention. I have no doubt that the pharmaceutical industry, which should save people’s health, should not harm them. I hope that's what we're gonna do today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u7	Eugene Kirilchuk. Sergey Shevchuk, right? Please have the right to speak by Eugene Kirilchuk Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u8	Thank you, Eugene Ivanovich, for passing the word. Dear colleagues, the problem of counterfeiting medical supplies, drugs -- it's not just a Ukrainian problem, it's very relevant in Africa, and Latin America, and even in Great Britain -- there was a huge scandal when the British learned that they were being given counterfeit funds. And it is no wonder that the Council of Europe has adopted such a document inviting States — participants — to sign, to join this convention. And this must certainly be done because the issue is particularly relevant in Ukraine. It is estimated that I will not say categorically, but about 30 percent of the drugs in the Ukrainian internal market are fakes, counterfeits, and sometimes just crude counterfeits. And so that officials do not speak, it is true and, sadly, this truth distorts the health of the Ukrainians. Therefore, ratification is necessary. Regarding the profile committee's comments that there are no other legislative acts that are already internal, our Ukrainians. I would like to inform our honourable diplomats that several bills have been registered by the Ukrainian National Deputies to increase criminal responsibility for the circulation of counterfeit drugs. The question is that somehow they're not being considered. But if we listen to the profile committee and don't ratify it today, and we drag it back to one day, I have a question: when is that going to happen? To the holidays of ours, after the holidays? To the end of our term of office or perhaps a new parliament? Maybe it's just a trap for counterfeiters who make crazy money so they don't take the appropriate legislation at all. Therefore, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko believes that it is necessary to ratify the convention and commit the government, the Ministry of Justice, as soon as possible, to correct the Ukrainian sub-legal and domestic acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u9	Yuri Litwin. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u10	Please give the floor to the colleague of Zarubin to Oleg Aleksandrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u11	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u12	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully agree with all the reasoning and the fact that Sergey Shevchuk cited. Totally. And I want to pay attention to that. This convention increases responsibility by increasing the punishment of counterfeiters of medical products. There are, of course, certain articles of criminal punishment already provided for in Ukrainian legislation. But look what they sound like. They sound like criminal responsibility for the manufacture of counterfeit medical devices and other deliberate actions with these devices, and also for the manufacture of counterfeit active substances is criminal responsibility when the relevant products or manufactured items are dangerous. [[Attention!]] Do you understand what happens then? The forger makes a product that may actually be directly harmful and does not have a relationship with the patient. The patient uses this forgery and, in fact, placebo, deserts. Time goes by, he doesn't heal like it's supposed to be. What's going on? What is this, then there is no danger? So it was quite right for a colleague of Shevchuk to say that the convention should be ratified. I want to tell you that, indeed, I have been told, I can confirm that on June 5th, already registered in the new edition of the Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code, which reinforces criminal responsibility for falsifying medical devices. I think it's just that if we look at this bill, we can just technically communicate it with the key positions of this convention that we can ratify today. Once again, people who earn health, in fact, in the lives of people, are despicable and have to be punished criminally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u13	Now first – Lechchenka, then – you. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u14	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Of course, the European Council Convention on Counterfeiting Medical Products and Such Crimes should be ratified because counterfeits have flooded the drug market, people pay the last cents for drugs, and the disease is getting worse because it's a fake, a lot of people are dying. In principle, current legislation provides for responsibility, but for some reason the State Department with medical devices, and our law enforcement agencies can say that quite a bit are looking through their fingers. Here another situation is that only yesterday or the day before, the project is being implemented and it is being considered, and the bills that are to supplement it are not available. We have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, microphone, please. And then who, Popescu? Did you raise your hand to the sand?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u16	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you know, when I started hearing a report from a government official, I thought I was going to the Russian State Duma, not the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, and in view of the fact that on the other side of the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, I quote what is written. "There are some doubts as to the accuracy of the translation of individual provisions of the Convention, particularly Article 4, which defines the term'medical product', which is not used in the following articles. At the same time, articles 5 and 6 use the term "medical products." Scientists continue to say that these terms are actually the same term and that they interpret the content of "medical products." However, it would not be desirable to consider adopting a bill on the basis of assumptions about the content of the instrument proposed for ratification. Because of this, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, all these issues need to be reconciled now and done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u17	Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u18	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, the main objective of this convention, is to ensure the protection of the rights of victims against unlawful acts and to increase national and international cooperation, particularly in the countries of the Council of Europe in the fight against counterfeit medical products. First, this will be ensured by the introduction of new control methods. And secondly, it'll be punishment for for forging this product. Since we have made these commitments to the Council of Europe and we must harmonize our legislation with the laws of the Council of Europe, and bring it into line with European standards, the Party of Regions will speak for. And the points that our colleagues have mentioned, which are the corresponding objections and problems that are, can be solved by making changes to actual legislation or passing new laws, and the convention needs to be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. With regard to the committee's proposal not to address the issue of the decision-making regime to ratify other laws, I think that this proposal can only be supported in part of what we need to speed up the preparation, the consideration of relevant laws. By the way, today we're planning a series of draft laws that deal with the medical supply of drugs. I've now asked the secretariat to pick up all the bills that are ready for consideration, and I think we're going to be in a package mode, discussing each of them in detail, we need to consider and determine what decisions we're going to make. And now, dear colleagues, I am voting on a proposal in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of Approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Counterfeiting of Medical Products and of similar crimes that threaten health care. [[Registration number 0261]] Please vote. [[10:17:16]] For 314 Dear National Deputies! For - 314. Decision taken. Two factions: the "BUT"- "Paternity" faction requires a recess to be announced for a day-to-day consultation and a statement. That's how it's gonna be. Break. Is the Contingent Council to be gathered? Oh, no? No, it's not. A break of up to 10 hours is announced for 50 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, two factions have taken a break. A summary statement will be made by Andrew Kožemiakin. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u21	Good afternoon. Statement by the Faction "BUT" – "Paternity" in the Supreme Council. The political repression and torture of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Valery Vaschenka, and other political prisoners continue in Ukraine. These violent facts of the violation of fundamental human rights cannot be left out of the attention of the European society to which Ukraine so wishes. Throughout the history of independence, Ukraine has not received in such a short time the harsh and uncompromising resolutions of international structures that clearly point to the persecution of the leaders of the Ukrainian opposition because of their political activities. The main requirement for Ukraine is to reform criminal legislation, which the European community requires Ukraine to make immediately and to exclude from the Criminal Code the steel articles that provide for criminal punishment for political activity and to release political opponents. The fact that there are prisoners of conscience in Ukraine no longer raises doubts. The Danish Helsinki Committee on Human Rights, at the request of the EU, made an independent assessment of the judgments of Timoshenko and Lucenko, in which it fully acknowledged their political motivation. In view of this, the BUT-Paternity faction requires President Yanukovich to make public explanations about the failure to comply with the Paris Resolution of 26 January this year and the European Parliament Resolution of 24 May. Implementation of paragraph 3 of the European Parliament Resolution, which states: "The European Parliament calls for the unconditional, immediate release of all prisoners convicted of political motives, including the leaders of the opposition. Allow an expert from the Danish Helsinki Human Rights Committee, Mr. Lingbo, to make public an independent legal and expert assessment of the so-called criminal cases against Timoshenko from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the fall of this year, elections will be held for the Supreme Council. The European Parliament made a clear and unequivocal requirement in paragraph 13 of its resolution. So the elections to the Ukrainian Parliament can't be considered fair if the two main politicians of the country, Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko, who led the country's most powerful political forces in 2007, are now thrown away. We're addressing Mr. President Yanukovic. Mr. President, how can you allow your political rival, a woman who's been bedridden with only 3 percent less than you've been in the election, to let her healthy boys beat her?Oh, my God! And your subjects have analyzed the video footage that's been running in her cell and in her room all day long. Such conduct, Mr. President, is unworthy of the president of the country, the more a man with at least a drop of honor and dignity. I want all the prisoners!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our consideration of the issues scheduled for Thursday, June 7. May I have your attention, please? We need to put a few bills into the agenda. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of the bill is put to the vote. Please take off the vote. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you with the following: once again, we would like to include in the agenda the question that the President of Ukraine noticed and returned a few months ago. The point is that the bill again gives the National Bank the right to use weapons at the level of the police. Once again, the President vetoed this initiative. Today, in the form of protecting the values and objects of the National Bank, we are actually returning to the consideration of the matter. The proposal seems that now again the National Bank’s well - known protection should have the right to apply measures of physical influence, special measures of defense, and firearms. We understand that this is our militia, but it's not a staff member of the Central Bank of Ukraine. So I ask you very much not to accept or vote in favour of this bill, not to include it in the agenda. Science-expert management is definitely against it. In our 30-member committee, only 9 voted in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Bank of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the protection of the values and objects of the National Bank of Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10539]] Please vote. [[10:55:18]] For 228 Decision taken. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 179, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 1, the Communists – 0, the People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, the non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, it is now proposed to include in the agenda a bill amending the Law on Mortgage Bonds. [[on the release and circulation of mortgage bonds]] [[Registration number 10282]] Please withdraw from the vote. Stanislaw Arjewitin, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! Let's do it again, I'm talking to you. If we are included in the agenda, we will not be able to accept the bill until the second reading. Notice the comments that are in the Science and Experimental Authority, the comments that are in the Cabinet itself that this proposal, not to be connected to those who work around mortgage bonds, will not be able to make proposals until the second reading. Because there is only one sentence in the text itself. We need to make similar changes to three articles. Therefore, there is a request to return to the author’s work and then make changes to three articles before this bill. And then we'll be able to accept it comprehensively until the second reading. So please note the observation made by the Scientific and Experimental and the Cabinet of Ministers. Otherwise it'll be a single shot. We're just going to use the extra time. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to listen to the opinion of Stanislav Arzvetin, because I am voting on the proposal in accordance with the Rules for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on Mortgage Bonds of Ukraine. [[on the release and circulation of mortgage bonds]] [[Registration number 10282]] Please vote. [[10:57:41]] For 237 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on the Universal Social Programme for the Protection of the Population and Areas from Technological and Natural Exceptions for 2012 - 2016 is under review. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Seminoga. Second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u27	Honourable Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, is being submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the Universal Purpose Social Programme for the Protection of Populations and Territories against Technological and Natural Emergencies for 2012 - 2016. [[Registration number 9542]] The purpose of the bill is to gradually reduce the risk of emergency situations, increase the level of safety of the population and protect the territory from natural and technological threats. The committee received 47 proposals from Ukrainian national deputies. Of these, 28 are included, 3 is edited, 5 is partially counted and 11. According to the National Deputies of Ukraine, an increase of 31.2 million dollars is planned. This will make it possible to take priority measures to prevent emergency situations. World practice has shown that emergency situations are easier to prevent than then to eliminate. The total funding for 5 years is 12 billion 251 million 304,000 dollars, of which at the expense of the state budget is 10 billion 356 million 40 thousand dollars, local budgets 611 million 764 thousand dollars, other sources 1 billion 283 million 500 thousand dollars. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill without notice. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, have decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law on a State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of populations and territories from technological and natural emergencies for 2012-2016, to be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Here is a clarification in the name of the draft law. We need to vote on the draft law proposed by the committee, namely: "The State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of the population and territories against technological and natural emergencies for 2013-2017." The logic is absolute because this was 2012 and it ends.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u29	Volodymyr Mihailovich, 2016, right? Oh, yeah, 2017, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u30	No, it's written here in 2017, just for the next five years for the next parliament. Dear colleagues, the name of the draft law is on the vote. Please vote. Drafted by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u31	Please support the committee's decision. [[11:01:43]] For 283
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u32	Decision taken. I ask Vladimir Karpuk not to insist on his amendments because we have already voted on the name. Thank you. Glasunov, 17 repairs. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Jankowski, 19th. No, it's not. Arjewitin, 26th. No, it's not. Arjewitin, 29th. Don't insist. Arjovitin, 30th. Don't insist. Vassillah, 30th. No, it's not. Jankowski, 37th. Don't insist. 42nd. Nor does it insist on this amendment. All other amendments are included. Dear colleagues, we have a positive match here. The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill has been handled irreprehensibly and there are no observations to it. So I put to the vote a proposal for a second-reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Law on a State-wide targeted social programme for the protection of populations and territories from technological and natural emergencies for 2013 - 2017. [[Registration number 9542]] Please vote. [[11:03:24]] For 301 The law is passed. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of communications. [[Registration number 9750]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u33	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy has prepared for second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Delimitation of Powers of State Authorities in the Field of Natural Monopolies and in the Field of Relationship. The bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council on 20 March 2012. The main purpose of adopting the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and Ukrainian Laws "On the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine", "On Telecommunications", "On Natural Monopolies" is to ensure a clear delimitation of the powers of the Antimonopoly Committee, the authorities governing natural monopolies in recognition of the legal status of operators in these markets, which is carried out to ensure their effective regulation. The second read included 10 suggestions from three Ukrainian national deputies, from which the committee suggests that 8 and 2 be rejected. Thus, at its meeting on April 24, 2012, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of connection in second reading and in general. If there are any comments on the amendments, I am also ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin, first amendment. Yuri Anatolyevich, do you insist on her? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u35	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. I want to thank you that three of my corrections have been taken into account, but two have not been taken into account. I think what I'm going to say is important. I propose, in the second paragraph of article 3 of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine Act, that we leave in good order, i.e. not narrow down the authorization of the Antimonopoly Committee, I repeat, not narrow down, but leave in such an order: "concentration control, coordinated management and price regulation of products produced by natural monopolies." This is because I suggest that then the formulation of a standard under which the Antimonopoly Committee will monitor compliance with the requirements of legislation for the protection of economic competition when regulating prices for goods produced by natural monopolies will not contribute to effective resistance to monopolistic trends of natural monopolies, since they may unduly increase prices like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u36	It's the 1st Yuri Karmazin vote. [[11:06:58]] For the 17th. Correction not supported. Igor Sharov, 2nd Amendment. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Amendment 5. Yuri Anatolyevich. Microphone, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. I thank those who understand what the Antimonopoly Committee is and that its sphere of authority and competence cannot be narrowed down. And what's more, the examples now of two and three times the price increase on the trainway, the criminal price rise, they're already there today, that's the social improvement we're seeing right now. Part two of article 5 I propose to write in this paper: "The listed list of natural monopolies is carried out by the National Commissions for the Regulation of Natural Monopolies in the relevant sphere or by the executive bodies that perform the functions of such regulation before the creation of the specified commissions. If there are no appropriate commissions in certain areas, the listed list of natural monopolies is maintained by the Antimonopoly Committee in Ukraine on the basis of natural monopolies registers. ” It is based on the fact that the proposed edition is not in line with the provisions of Part Four of Part One of article 6 on public regulation in the field of utilities, according to which industry registers are compiled and maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u38	Amendment 5 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:08:38]] For-24 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, all the other proposals made by the national MPs are taken into account. The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. In the meantime, the General Legal Office believes that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. That's what I'd like to say. I put to the vote a proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, a bill of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the delimitation of powers of state authorities in the areas of natural monopolies and in the field of communications. [[Registration number 9750]] Please vote. [[11:09:33]] For 262 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance is being announced for consideration. [[on the payment of the congregation for transport equipment]] Valeriy Suškevitch. I can't see. Ladies and gentlemen, before this bill. Do you have Valeriy Suškevitch? Labunski, please, from the committee. There's a few amendments here, they're practically accounted for. Except for the amendment of the People's Deputy of Pinchuk. Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u39	Mayor, Timoshenko Street. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u40	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u41	The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons compared the table to the draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory State Pension Insurance, considered at its meeting on 23 May 2012. During the second reading of the bill, four proposals were made from legal entities. Three are counted, one is rejected. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. The principal legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a comparative table for the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u42	Thank you. Since the document has been fully documented, there are no comments to it, including by the lawyers of the General Legal Office, the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a bill of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance is put to the vote. [[on the payment of the congregation for transport equipment]] [[Registration number 10110]] Please vote. [[11:11:50]] For 273 The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens is being submitted for consideration. [[on improving the return mechanism]] [[Registration number 10355]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Alexander Stoyan. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! You know that now six million of our fellow countrymen have started to pay compensation for a one-thousand-dollar savings. But our committee, the Social Policy Committee held parliamentary hearings that year, and as a result of parliamentary hearings, we decided to make some changes to the Law on State Guarantees for Savings on Improving the Return Mechanism. Because we know that the previous payments there were not very perfect mechanisms and there were many such misunderstandings. And even though the process is said to have gone, I think that making changes will help. I want to say that 15 amendments have been made, 5 have been taken into account, and 8 amendments have been rejected. I would like to draw your attention to a very principled amendment, which is that in article 8, the government proposed that payments be made for the organization and burial of dead investors. In line with the government’s offer, the government proposed to move away from the clearly established amount of such payment, particularly according to this edition the sum of part of the lost savings or premiums paid by the heir was to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. But the definition of the Cabinet of Ministers depended on how God put it. So I made suggestions to this article, and I supported the committee, which was formulated in this way. I pay your attention, it's very important to our countrymen, our bodies and our radios. In the event of the death of the investor, help to implement his funeral to pay in the size determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but I pay attention, but no less, to the size of the living minimum for those who have lost their employment set by law. Thus, if the investor dies, the funeral is to be held, and the amount corresponding to the subsistence minimum is to be allocated to those who have lost their jobs. This will allow you to have a clear fixation. Ask questions, what about other investors? I want to tell our compatriots that if a donor dies, the heirs have the right to make a contribution. For example, this year a investor who could have received a thousand died. He's dead, he's got a thousand left to bury, he's got a living minimum, and he's got a thousand left to get. Other observations are taken into account, some rejected. I think you can go after the amendments and I'll try to argue if the amendment authors insist on their amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u44	Jaroslav Jojik. 2 revisions. No, it's not. Yuri Carmazin. 4th Amendment. Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. I have an amendment concerning what I propose in the first part of Article 6 to delete the words "and other forms according to legislation." The proposal is made in view of the fact that, according to the new edition of part one of article 6 of the Law on State Guarantees, damages to citizens from the loss of money savings should not be made solely in monetary form, as provided for by a valid norm, but in monetary form, at the expense of the public budget and other forms. Think about it, people, "and other forms," it says, "according to legislation." In what other forms? You put the money in, you get what? Are socks or spare parts of the tractor? Or what? So I propose that the words "and other forms according to legislation" be deleted. And I'm outraged that the committee didn't rule it out and we have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u46	On the contrary, respectable colleagues, Karmazin’s amendment provides for the possibility of paying for the services of the LHC, education, medical services, medicines, and so forth. We've removed that position. Such bills were repeatedly introduced by our colleagues, Simonenko, Konovaluk. And we still think that. Here, Yuri Carmazin, I agree with you that payments should be made solely in cash form. Because we can't chase the air, for example, learning. What Is Teaching? What Is the Pay for Teaching? Those who count the U.S. are not there. Therefore, this amendment is appropriate and we consider it necessary to delete it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u47	So you rejected this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u48	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u49	No, it's not. Dear colleagues! The substance of the amendment is that, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, it is stated: "compensation for citizens of Ukraine of the loss of money savings has been made in cash from 1997 on the basis of the funds of the National Budget of Ukraine and other forms in accordance with the legislation." [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Carmazin proposes to put a dot after the words of the State Budget of Ukraine, because there are no other forms of compensation. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, Yuri Anatolyovich. Don't shout, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u50	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is that other forms are what they are now, people can give a card that they can use on this card, on which the money is counted, and now they can either take money, or buy goods, or be counted. So it's not the compensation of the LHK, it's the credit card.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u51	The vote is amended as follows: 4 Yuri Karmazin. Please identify yourself. [[11:18:41]] For-32 Correction not supported. Amendment 6 Yuri Karmazin Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you've all seen cynicism as everything is pierced. Other forms are written, payment is allowed, and Carmazin proposes to remove them, and Karmazin is also accused. It must be embarrassing to you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, for things that you, I had no right to repeat, did not give me a line. Most of the time, you too will be ashamed of what you accept. I suggest in Amendment 6 that you write a part of the second one with a new sentence: "to this kind of information." And where the information needs to be included in the information and analysis system, I propose the law to determine: the name, surname and father, birthplace, place of residence, and identification code. All right, dot. After the code is no longer required by a citizen, it has to be determined exclusively by law, so that there is no interpretation and "artificial whistling". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u53	In principle, Yuri Carmazin is right, here the correction is so normal. But why did we reject it? We think that data entering the register is constantly changing and clarifying. And in order to say, let's say, there was no way to limit it, to take any other data, we say that it's better to regulate it by means of regulations, that we start a register of new investors, we accept a sub-legal act. Whoever does this, government or savings, they determine the form of the register. But if we do support Karmazin's offer, it won't, they say, harm the whole. Although the committee proposes to reject it and to regulate it by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u54	Amendment 6 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[11:20:52]] For 20 Correction not supported. 8 Amendment by Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin. I thank everyone who supported the amendments, I understand, it's not language politics, it's regional-language politics, it's not Ukraine's expansion, it's not the Party of Regions rating. So, "Thanks to the Donbassians for our happy childhood." Including by this law, I see it will be the same. I propose that in part four of the words "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" be replaced by the words "about 3,000 dollars of annual inflation payments and are made in a mandatory manner." It is motivated to avoid the possible annual changes, the manner in which contributions are made, depending on the economic situation and other subjective factors. Let's say the thousand that was returned three years ago and the thousand that they're returning today are 3-4 times different, and everybody knows that, including the trades.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u56	I wouldn't want you to accuse our political power of it, Your Honor. I don't think we're doing anything. We started paying thousands now. Moreover, the bill that was passed by the government and it will be supported today by our faction of the Party of Regions, is precisely aimed at strengthening the government's responsibility for the return of savings. Regarding your offer. Dear colleague, it contradicts 95 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Why 3,000? And if we have the opportunity and the economy will work normally, and for that year, it's not 3,000, it's 5,000, it's all 100 percent. So let's limit it to 3,000. Which will be paid all the time, not properly. We say6 that we have to pay constantly back these savings, but by going out on the sole basis of the State Budget Act of Ukraine. That is why the committee proposes that this amendment be rejected by honorary Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, the 8th Amendment of Yuri Carmazin is now under way. [[11:23:27]] For-21 Correction not supported. So, dear colleagues, we've considered all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u58	No, no, nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u59	There's no Arjevitin. Well, no, that's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u60	The committee requests the vote and the adoption of the Act on State Guarantees for the Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. [[on improving the return mechanism]] Please, Your Honor, support this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u61	The proposal for a second-reading committee is put to the vote as a bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. [[on improving the return mechanism]] [[Registration number 10355]] Please vote. [[11:24:30.]] For 268. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 5, Communists 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 12. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the application of the law]] The reporter is Alexy Plotnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u62	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement was introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Zabarski and adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading, with short preparation on 17 May 2012. [[on the application of the law]] [[Registration number 8010]] The aim of this bill is to ensure an adequate system of procurement of goods, jobs and services in order to improve the efficiency of defence and industrial enterprises, as well as to preserve demand and supply volumes of Ukrainian products in the world market. Such a goal is achieved through the non-proliferation of the Ukrainian Law on State procurement for purchases, goods, works and services carried out by enterprises of the defence and industrial complex, which are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Two amendments were made to the committee by the Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Karmazin. Of these amendments, one is completely taken into account, the other is rejected. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made observations on a project that the committee is partially proposing to consider. That is, the changes proposed by the project on the eligibility of purchases made by enterprises of the defence and industrial complex to those not covered by the law should be made to part three of the second article of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. So the Economic Policy Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft in second reading and in general as a law clarifying the General Legal Administration that has been issued. [[Registration number 8010]] If there are comments by the author that are not included, I am ready to respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, here are two amendments to Carmazin, one counted, the other unaccounted for. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? Amendment number one. Carmazine's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u64	Yuri Carmazin. I'd like to suggest that we see this problem. I would like to delete chapter I of the bill, namely article 2 to add to part six of this content: "The act does not extend to the law for the purchase of goods, jobs and services carried out by enterprises of the defence and industrial complex, whose list is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers." I submit this proposal in connection with some of the difficulties that arise in the defence complex companies in manufacturing complex technology in the case of the implementation of the Law on State Procurement. I would like to stress that part of the fourth article of the Act on State Procurement is the application of certain special conditions for the purchase of individual goods, which should be determined by individual laws of Ukraine, to which the Law on State Defence Orders may, in particular, be applied. In this law, a separate chapter may define clear rules for a more simplified procedure for purchasing public services, specifically in this law. And I think that's an amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u65	Yes, Your Honor, there is one amendment to the vote. [[11:28:31]] For the five of us. Honorable colleagues are not included, for Yuri Anatolyevich suggested that the law be abolished, in effect. Yeah, half. That's why I'm voting to accept the second reading as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the application of the law]] [[Registration number 8010]] Please vote. [[11:29:18]] For 246 Thank you. The law is passed. We are discussing: the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, cognac and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products, concerning siding and perri. [[no alcohol added]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 9762]] This is Geller. You will, won't you? Please, Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u66	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Let me briefly remind you of the substance of our adoption on May 17, 2012, on the basis of the draft Law on State regulation of production and circulation of ethyl, cognac and fruit alcohol. The introduction of this bill is called for by legislation to clarify the regulation of the production of the Sidorda and Perri by domestic enterprises without adding alcohol solely in part of the requirements for the spilling of these beverages in accordance with existing legislation. Before the second reading, the text of the bill was finalized. In total, there were 12 proposals, of which 10 are included, 2 is rejected. So we're ready to look at this project in the second reading. And I'd like to focus on the 10th right of Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach, which I suggest you put on confirmation and support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u67	Yes, dear colleagues, let's follow the amendments. 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, accounted for, Carmazin included. 8th, Carmazin. Please. Don't you insist? He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u68	Yuri Carmazin. You know, I'm talking to my colleague Chechchev. Dear colleague, I would advise you to read the substance of the amendments, not to ask who's amendment, but to hear that Carmazin is being waved at once. I strongly advise you to do so. You're still a doctor of science and let's not be embarrassed. As for this amendment, I would like to propose such a thing. In chapter 1 of the first sentence, replace the words "metal banks with food aluminum, polymer bottles of PET" with the words "taru of plastics." And it is based on the fact that, for example, in European countries, drink producers can see a rather stable trend in the use of PET for the benefit of, for example, greenhouses, particularly in Germany. So it is wise to borrow foreign experience and not put Ukraine’s population in danger. And that's why I'm asking you to support me, no matter who the amendment is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u69	Thank you. 8 amendments shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:32:34]] For the 15th. Not supported. 9th count. 10th. Please, Anatoly Kinach, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u70	There's no confirmation because it's rejected. Please, Kinaha's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! I am grateful that you paid attention to the correction. It is essentially productive in the context of government policy on the restriction of consumption of tobacco products. We have now decided that since October 5, of this year, all tobacco products will be equipped with appropriate medical warnings, color pictures so that our citizens will know the level of damage that burns them with their health. In order to ensure a rhythmic production cycle, it is proposed that by October 4 the products with new requirements should be returned to the retail market again and again from October 5th. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u72	Dear National Deputies! An amendment 10 is put to the vote to support it. Please vote. [[11:33:57]] For 244 Correction supported. Thus, honourable national MPs are voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general as a bill of the Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, horse and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products. [[no alcohol added]] [[Registration number 9762]] At the same time, I'm informing you that the Chief Legal Authority has no comments on the document. Please vote. [[11:34:45]] For 254 The law is passed. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u73	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I request the deepest request of the opposition representatives: you will stop mocking Yuri Anatoleevich Karmazin! You see, a man works nights and you give one vote of support. You're in revenge for his silent support of the Language Act yesterday? How could he not back the Language Law? He has supported you in silence, so do not avenge yourselves. Be kind to the people. What are you doing?Oh, my God! One vote at a time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u74	Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u75	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear Mr. Michael, I'm not calling your name, you're guessing that it's you I'm addressing, I thank you very much for your protection. I do not need to be protected, I inform those who are listening to us now on the radio that much of the opposition has covered its seats with a portrait of Julia Timoshenko, who is currently sitting without guilt in prison, and cannot support her voices. And I'm also informing you that against your stupidity presented in the language law, I couldn't possibly vote in favour, because this criminal law, apart from everything else, is worth 12 to 15 billion. And yesterday I went to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin in the second hour of the day so that he wouldn't vote because 66 of your colleagues weren't at the meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine on the Harmonization of Certain Tax and Customs Laws is being reviewed, and the Reporter is the head of the Committee of Vitaly Homutinnik. [[Registration number 10452]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u77	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy prepared a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to harmonize certain tax and customs legislation for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. This bill was adopted on May 23, this year, and we discussed at a committee meeting, where we considered all the proposals that came from the people's deputies, 46 of them, 40 of them entirely, six of them rejected because of the inadequacy of the concept set out in the new edition of the Customs Code. I would also like to point out that the Chief Legal Authority has commented on the need to bring the title of the bill into line with its contents. And it was suggested that the bill should be amended to include amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and Customs Codes for the Harmonization of Individual Standards. I think it is necessary to remind you that the changes to the Customs Code have been prepared taking into account the Ukrainian President's mandate to improve certain provisions of the Ukrainian Customs Code. This is an improvement in the order in which the customs value of goods is determined, the elimination of the diversification of periods of time allowed by citizens to temporarily import into Ukraine of means of transport, the clarification of the term "false data" used in articles 483 and 485 of the Customs Code. In addition, I request that the commission of the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, be prepared in an editorial and technical manner, the text of the law adopted before the signing of the Supreme Council. Also for the transcript, I also want to say that it requires a technical readjustment of sub-paragraph 195. 12 Tax Code and Articles 420 and 143 of the Ukrainian Customs Code Thank you for your attention. So, dear colleagues, we can go over the proposals for a comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u78	Amendment 5. Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u79	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition I propose to leave sub-paragraph 14.1.242 as it stands. In particular, satellite services are services that are included in accordance with Ukrainian legislation on customs matters to the customs value of goods exported from the customs territory of Ukraine or imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. These changes are due to the fact that the exclusion of this concept is inappropriate, as in the Tax Code, the term used is found in other articles. Here's an example. In paragraph 39.13; in article 200, paragraph 216; article 209.4; article 337, paragraph 209. Therefore, the absence of this concept would have a negative impact on the implementation of the codex. I suggest you leave this item in the current version of the Tax Code. Please be supportive. This is not a political amendment, Mr. Chechetov. Absolutely no politics. Just knowing the Tax Code, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u80	Amendment number 5 shall be put to the vote. [[11:40:54]] For-21 No correction supported. The next amendment is Teryohin, 14. Is Teryohin insisting? No, it's not. Carmazine, 15 repairs, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u81	Yuri Carmazin. I thank all those who have supported me. And upset that we don't read the Tax Code, there is selectiveness again. Subparagraph 195.1.2 suggests that the new paragraph 13 should be supplemented by the following: "the goods purchased in shops without customs trade are subject to tax in the order envisaged for the purpose of importing such goods back into the customs territory of Ukraine". This change is due to the fact that the amount of goods that are not subject to VAT tax may fall below the scope of the tax. Therefore, goods are purchased in non-trafficking stores, free of charge, if they are imported back, should be placed in order to tax import transactions. Please be supportive. It's going to damage the corruption that's in her pocket right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u82	Dear National Deputies! Amendment 15 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:42:46]] For-25 Correction not supported. Amendment 17 Yuri Karmazin Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u83	Yuri Carmazin, thank you that there are 25 people in the room who realize that smuggling cannot be done, I thank these people, and obviously most of us will support quite differently, which is why oil and everything else is smuggled, and Ukrainian people, taxpayers, are paying for it all, and we're counting on the loss of jobs. I'm going to base 17 by suggesting you write the number 300 instead of 100. And it is based on the fact that the drafts of article 191, when defining the tax base, refer to the minimum untaxed cost of goods imported in one way or another, on a level, I emphasize, 300, a coma, 500 and a thousand euros. Thus, according to subsection 191 of the Code, when imported by natural persons of goods defined in articles 370 of the Customs Code, the total invoice value of which exceeds the equivalent of 300 euros, basic taxes and part of their total value that exceeds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u84	The 17th Amendment of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. [[11:44:20]] For-37 No correction supported. Amendment 26 Yuri Karmazin Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u85	Yuri Carmazin. Thanks to the 37 people who understand that it's necessary not to be 37 years old to support Carmazin's revisions. In article 26. I'd like to make a suggestion at point one. Amendments to part number 26 of the article delete the words "at the customs tariff of Ukraine". This change is due to the fact that preferential tariffs are not limited to the customs tariff of Ukraine, which is practically not set. Today, preferences, according to customs, are applied by Ukraine to goods originating in countries with which it has international free trade agreements in accordance with the provisions of international agreements. Because of this, I ask you to support my amendment, it has no political burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u86	Puts to the vote 26 amendments. [[11:45:48]] For-41 41 already, but the amendment is not supported. Amendment 45. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u87	Yuri Carmazin. Thank you for joining us on the Front of Change in the person of Knazevitch, thank you, and many other members of the party. The 45 amendment provides for the deletion of paragraph 9 in section 21, “The Final and Transitional Positions”, namely: “amendments to this Code may be made solely by laws amending the Customs Code of Ukraine”. These changes are proposed because the possibility of amending the Customs Code is not limited to the possibility of amending the Customs Code solely by separate laws amending the Code without the possibility of amending the same draft to other laws that regulate related issues. Or to make changes to this code when changes are made to other laws that relate to it. A similar situation is found in the Tax Code, which has shown ineffectiveness. This has been the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u88	Amendment 45 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:47:24]] For-37 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, we have considered all the amendments. Taking into account the proposals made by the committee head during the report, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Harmonization of Certain Tax and Customs Legislation for the Adoption of Its Second Reading and Overall as a Law. [[Registration number 10452]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u89	What you're not talking about is the Chief Legal Officer's remark.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u90	I told you already. [[11:48:08]] For 259. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a draft Act amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk. [[Registration number 10456]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Kaletnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u91	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, on May 22 we have accepted you as a basis with a brief deadline for drafting the amendment bill. The bill proposes to improve the State support mechanism for the agro-industry complex, including agrarian interventions, and to ensure access to dairy products by all types of the population regardless of their level of monetary income. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the situation in the field of animal production, particularly in the field of milk production. I'm not going to repeat myself, in the first base report, I said how many cows are cut out every year, especially in the individual sector because of the lack of interest and lack of price policy for milk. To date, the bill has been developed by the committee for the second reading. Eight amendments have been made to the legislative initiative, all amendments have been taken into account, except for one that contradicts the ideology of the bill. As to the comments of the Chief Legal Authority, we agreed on the committee and it is counted. Thus, according to consideration, respected colleagues are invited to support the amended bill and recommend that it be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u92	I see. Just a minute. It's a 6-mendment. Lukyanczuk, is there a need? No, it's not. Next, Carmazin, please, then Roman Tjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin. I want to thank Gregory Mikolaiovich for this serious preparation for this law. But obviously we have a bad slap in the ass. I want to say that all of Ukraine is now awaiting this law, the whole of Ukraine. And he waits immediately for it to be accepted and put into effect. Suddenly there is amendment number 8, which states that this law takes effect 90 days from the date of its publication. Although we always write that it takes effect from the day of the next, on the day of its publication. And in the author's essay, in the first reading, we were adopted "from the day, the next, the day of its publication." The villagers are waiting, 90 days after the day of entry into force, they won't wait, the cattle will be cut away. So I propose that this amendment be put on confirmation and put it down because it was correctly written in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u94	Please, Gregory Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u95	I thank you very much for such active support. This is really a necessary law. But I want to explain why 90 days and why the author of this amendment is the author of the law, which is me. The point is that you and I have supported a point where we are obliged that mediators today are doing nothing in the milk market and without any documents they don't just pay any price, they give milk factories without accounting, but they're throwing people away -- 2-3 months doesn't count, then they disappear altogether, and they leave unpaid amounts for milk. You and I have adopted a rule that is now forbidden to prepare ready-made organizations, brokers without contracts, without documents. So in order to conclude these contracts, we have determined the term according to the existing legislation in 90 days. I'd like you to agree to that and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, the voter's amendment number 8 is counted by the committee for confirmation. Please vote. [[11:52:57]] For 236 Correction confirmed. Roman Tchac.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u97	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! He encouraged the bill to deal in some way with the issue of milk production and purchase. But I think it's got a bomb in it. Today, there are about 2.5 million cows in Ukraine. There are 2 million single-owners. You can imagine what happens when we adopt this law, which means that 2 million men have to make 90 days contracts with those who accept milk. You know what our price situation is in this market. We have about 2-3 per year in Ukraine. There's so-called big milk now, then comes spring, autumn. What will be the price of contracts? Another question. Today, for example, when a person holds a cow and gives it to a supplier and does not fulfill his obligations to that person, he may interrupt the milk supply and give it to another. When she concludes this agreement, it is all tied up. So the question here is different. Like two million men in 90 days to make an agreement on a deposit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u98	Please finish, Roman Tkac, your opinion. There's a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u99	There's a problem. That's why I wouldn't be in such a hurry to accept it right now. While our legal authorities have also given their comments. We take responsibility here, we make changes to the Civil Code. We're setting up a slow-acting bomb. Let's not rush, let's talk about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u100	Thank you, please, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u101	Thank you. I've studied with my colleagues this question. I mean, it's completely not in line with the logic that was just expressed. And it is because today a large part of the dairy industry that works on a direct basis is working on contracts. There are booklets that show daily the quantity and quality of the milk. And in these cases, both those factories, and in these areas, the milk productions don't have these apherists, they don't have throws. And people really get all the money for the milk they earn. If we're going to argue today by the Supreme Council that we're going to have all the middlemen working in the shadows again, and that the shadow sector itself pays wages or wages for milk to the people, then we really need to take the previous speaker into account. In each area, the dairy plant is able to conclude contracts within one month.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u102	Dear National Deputies! We're going to vote now. But I would very much like to ask the chairman of the committee to listen to what Roman Tchac said. The thing is, yes, the books are accounted for. But perhaps we should now, when we vote, put in a commission to the committee to control what forms these documents will be. Because I think I can imagine each and every one of us, if our parents come to sign a deal, they'll write something down that doesn't count with processors for the rest of their lives. So let's do it this way. We're going to set up a mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine separately, as well as a committee, one minute, to work out what this is going to be like a document that will determine the relationship between a milk producer and a processor. Or what we're going to figure out right now is 90 days to bring this problem back to normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u103	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Absolutely. Even at 7am, we tried to write down what was under the contracts, the typical contracts that the Cabinet of Ministers was going to approve. If such an assignment is given today by the Supreme Council, the committee will work out a typical agreement and give approval to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u104	It must be a simple, obvious and understandable document, where it should be fixed, how much it has given, when it has received, and at what price.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u105	Absolutely. The simpler it's going to be. We're ready to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u106	A motion for acceptance is put to the vote in the second. Please take off the vote. One. More discussion. Ivan Hare, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u107	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. I think we're going to have to write this very clearly, this position, and no committee is going to work on a typical contract. We just have to write that the Cabinet of Ministers approves a typical contract for one month and notes what are the positions, other things, and so on. And this typical agreement should not extend to those who will buy milk and who will bring it to the peasants for the conclusion of this contract. That's how we have to write a very imperative formula right now, today, otherwise there will never be this agreement and our peasants will be walking around after these cooks again and stealing them again. Don't take what you can't do. Let the Cabinet of Ministers approve such a typical contract within a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u108	It's very good to say that only he forgets, colleague, that the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2008 to develop the order of auctions has not been developed to date. The law was written there. So if it's under the control of the committee, don't take that away. These are control functions. Thank you. We're talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I have an offer to enact this law now to present with a clarification: the Cabinet of Ministers for a month to process, one minute, to process and adopt a single document that is simple and understandable and protects, above all, those who produce milk. We're going to formulate that and that's it. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u110	That's the way it's supposed to be written: a typical contract in a month's time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u111	It's a deal. I'll bet you a vote. We've been through this, please. Yuri Anatolyevich, we've completed our consideration of the matter. Take it off, please. Carmazine. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u112	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I won't take another question. Listen, this is important. The 7th amendment really did a terrible thing. Gregory Mikolaiovich! Someone wrote down here that he did not have enough to prohibit the purchase of milk from suppliers without written contracts, and that the natural and legal persons guilty of violating the rules of this paragraph bear responsibility under articles 155, 155, Prim. Ukraine Code on Administrative Violations. This means that these people, who are to be respected, to be caught, to be recorded, and to be held accountable. Well, it's clear that this thing can't be done in such a harsh way right now. It departs from the concept that was adopted in the first reading, that is, in connection with what, and that we should now assign the Cabinet of Ministers. Well, what do we have him stand here, go ahead? Well, it's, uh, I'm sorry, I'm already trying to protect the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't like Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u113	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u114	Yuri Anatolyevich, please. In fact, the 7th amendment is written, but it is written in a very nice way, not a terrible thing. This thing eliminates the apherists who are now throwing people out of this rostrum, so check it out. In the Chernobyl area, 400,000 have been charged for the past three months and have not been paid, abandoned. In the Lipovec region, 740,000 and in no way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u115	Dear colleagues! Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u116	The standard of responsibility for producing milk and transporting it with documents is absolutely necessary to verify the movement of this milk, otherwise we will never, with this shadowy circulation, overcome it or protect the peasants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, this is a discussion now. It's a second reading. You insisted on the 7th amendment. I'm putting her to the vote, confirming the 7th amendment. Please vote. No need, dear fellows. It's the second reading, it's not the first reading. [[12:02:03]] For 261 Honorary colleagues, taking into account the completion of the post in the Final Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, to determine the typical contract during the month before the introduction of this law into force, I put to the vote the proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole the bill of the draft Law amending article 3 of the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk. [[Registration number 10456]] Please vote. [[12:02:54]] For 293 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is such an offer, since we have already exercised the right to a break, perhaps. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! No objection to taking a break? I won't. Please. Dear colleagues, we are. Please! Dear colleagues, we are now to consider a draft law on the implementation of the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria programmes in Ukraine. [[Registration number 101210]] At the same time, this document is now being processed by the General Legal Office. Let's do this: as soon as the work is done and the MPs get to know the project that's being prepared, we'll look at it. If he's ready today, he'll be ready today, no, tomorrow or the next time. Only yesterday evening he came to law enforcement, there's a complicated bill, as you know. It's about finance, complicated schemes. They need to work so that there is no veto on this law. So let's postpone for now. Thank you. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the wages of joining natural monopolies is being announced for consideration. Unfortunately, I must say, honourable colleagues, this bill is not ready either. If he was introduced in the 20th. Dear colleagues, let's finish! Wait! I'm not waving, please, come on. Please! Please! Please, calm down! Dear colleagues, Bill 9011. I see you've done a lot of work already. Bill 9011 is also in the legal office at work, so before obtaining the conclusions of the legal administration, the request to postpone the bill. Please! Please! I'll put it to a vote, just calm down! Dear colleagues, at the request of Sergey Sasa, I am putting to the vote a proposal not to announce the recess but to work on the issues, since the right to a recess has already been exercised. Please. Well, if you want, don't vote! Please vote. [[12:05:51]] For-52 The decision is not taken. Well, I don't see any reason to be happy. What are you so happy about? Calm down! A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, please create conditions for them to continue their work, namely: please take your seats. Now we have to consider the question of election and dismissal of judges. The rapporteur is the deputy head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Mikola Grigorovitch Pinchuk. Please, Mikolo Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u119	Allow me to express my sincere respect for the Ukrainian MP’s corps from the entire composition of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges. Now let's get to it. Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of the Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine on a stand-by basis during the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to appoint a judge on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 27, in the first part of article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decisions on recommending candidates for judges on an indefinite basis. Your attention is given to the following draft regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u120	10567, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u121	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Lviv District Administrative Court of Kostov Mikhail Vasilovich; Odessa District Administrative Court of Ivanov Eduard Anatolyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u122	I'm betting on a draft ruling, registration number. Take down the vote. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u123	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to talk to you about the extraordinary situation that happened in Donetsk yesterday. Yesterday, at the direct direction of the Doñec City Head Lukianka, police officers broke into the public reception of my national deputy in Donetsk on the street of Logutenka, 3. By force, they put my official assistant from the reception center, and today this reception facility is blocked, it's not working, and I'm out of work. Please, as Head of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u124	Let's do it this way. Oleg Valeriyovich, let's do it this way. Listen! This is a very important subject, but it does not apply to judges. I am now tasked with preparing an appropriate appeal to the law enforcement authorities to investigate the matter and evaluate it properly. Andrew Schlell. After the draft decree? Please. Secretariat, prepare an appropriate address.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u125	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I would like to ask a representative of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges on all occasions. Here we were given a copy of your application and opposite the names of Opanasuk, Fedonuk, Litovchenka, Long, Taurus, Levitical birds, copies of the pen of the bird, and opposite the Krybuch of Olena Gennadive. Does that mean something or not? I'd like to ask you to make a more accurate transfer of documents, not drafts with your notes, but a clean document, without any stains, because it doesn't look very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u126	Please. Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u127	It may be some kind of hardware flaw, but the substance of the decision that is proposed does not apply.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft ruling on the election of judges is now being put to the vote. [[Registration number 1056]] Please vote. [[12:41:35]] For 267 Decision taken. Draft decision 10567-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u129	Please choose the judge without delay: The Wynnicki Administrative Court of Appeal, Melnik-Tomenko Jeanne Mikolayevna; The Jankoya District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kozub Olen Victorovna; The Red Guard District Court of Dnipropetrovska Cononenko Olen Mikolayevna; The proletarian district court of Donetsk Ulyanic Irina Volodymyrna; Orjonikidzewski District Court of Mariupol, Donetsk District, Oxana Alexandrovna The Grand March District Court of Zacarpathian District of Life by Eugene Hennadiyovich; Kagarlic District Court of the Kyiv district of Shevchenko Irina Ivanovna; Kyivo-Svetoshinsky District Court of Kyiv district of Burbel Yuri Sergiyovich; Tetijev district court of Kyiv district of Kosovich Tetjana Petrovna; Kamyanka-Buzki District Court of the district of Lviv, Samsin Markian Leonović; The First-May City Court of the Mikolai district of Pankov Denis Anatoliyovich; Kupyan District Court of Kharkiv District, Cendru Natalya Volodymyrovna The Sosnov District Court of Cherkasa Calchuk Allu Pavlovna; Righteous District Court of Chernigova Rahmankulova Irina Petrovna; The Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Bobrovnik Aleksandra Viktorovich; The Kyiv District Administrative Court, Terleck Olen Aleksandrovna; The Lviv District Administrative Court of Shinkar Tetjan Igorovna; Kharkiv District Administrative Court Bartosh Nadia Stanislavna; the district administrative court of Kyiv Vinokurov Kostintina Sergiyovich; the district administrative court of Sevastopol Majsak Olen Ivanovna; Provincial Court of Justice, Vojtuk Vitali Romanović; The court-martial of Kyiv Chinchin Olena Viktorovna, Shaptal Eugene Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u130	Please, Oleg Lakota, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. Mr. Pinchuk, I have a question for you. Now you've announced a list of judges, and there are quite a number of names that have been washed, especially you just named Vinocurov Constantine Sergiyovich, right? Tell me, I'm not wrong, a candidate in a court of law, he's not the son of the former or today's Deputy Attorney General Sergey Winokurov. If so, then. And now a member of the Constitutional Court, the deputy head of the Constitutional Court. If so, then I have, I want to draw the attention of the citizens of Ukraine to this very important question. Children from simple families, he with diplomas every day, the graduates of the Yaroslav the Wise Academy call me, they can't get a job because they have simple peasants or workers. And the judges, the heads of the Constitutional Court, carry their children to the judges. Do you view this as a moral assignment when brothers, saints, godparents, and all other common children, from simple families, cannot become judges or prosecutors, no one in the world. You're such a clan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u132	Yes, please, Mikola Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u133	I think it's just a rhetorical question, so you can ask the fault of a doctor who's studied his child in the med school and she's going to work in some hospital, an artist and stuff. I don't see the High Qualifying Commission's guilt in this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u134	No, dear colleagues, please, dear colleagues, don't, don't, don't, don't, please. Vladimir Karpuk, please. Dear colleagues, if you have any objections and specific documents that this judge has committed a violation during his work, please pass them on and we will postpone consideration. One minute, Karpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u135	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, we are already in this Hall of the Supreme Council meeting with a phenomenon such as nepotism, as Oleg Valeriyovich also spoke of. On this list, which is now known as Samsin, is the brother of the Head of the Qualifying Commission of Judges. If we look at why such a decision is in court, it is not surprising that when the children of highly esteemed people are really in positions of authority. And if you analyze, and this thing is, and it's often printed in the magazines, it's not surprising, and you can't compare, let's say, a system where in the Court of Appeal, the Supreme Court, there's a father or a mother in the ASU, and there's a son, a brother, a sister, and so on. This can't be compared to dynasties or doctors or artists -- it's different things. This is not a judicial system at all, and it is a family court; it is not easy to find such things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u136	Please, Baby. Then Mikhailo Chechetov. Specific comments to candidates. One minute, specific note.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u137	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I address you as the Head of the Supreme Council. You're saying that we have to pay attention to the violation of the judges. Yes, we do. But we are now pointing out that in Ukraine, in fact, a tribal system is being built, not just in the judiciary and in power. When the law expressly forbids these things. And we have officials of entire family dynasties, prosecutors' dynasties, now judges. I'm asking you, the Chief Justice's brother of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin is going to the judge. Why is he going to the judge? What right does he have to go when he has a direct relationship with his family? The son of the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court of Winnokurov is now going to the judge. I'm asking you, Mr. Pinchuck, who you're reporting on these questions, you understand that you're showing the whole country an example that if you don't have a tough brother, a sister-in-law or an uncle, you can't achieve anything in this life. That's the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u138	Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u139	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I keep thinking, well, what's the power of American democracy? And that's what the power of American democracy is. You see, the Kennedy Dynasty for two centuries is one brother president, another senator. You are watching the Bushey dynasty, the father of the president, the son of the president, John, the governor of the state. This indicates the continuity of power and the stability of the political situation. Therefore, it is not the child’s fault if he has a bright father, or a politician, or a scientist, and so on. It's not his fault he was born into such a star family. So what does he have to do now? And the child is talented. What's this all about? That's why we have to be equal to the United States of America, and then we'll have that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u140	Dear national MPs, one minute. We're not going to delete anything. If you give specific materials, and because your father and son, you want to delete because of that, you won't. Come on, dear fellows, let's do it this way. We'll take, if necessary, changes to the law that determine if a father works in the judicial system -- children can't work. Then we will have a logical basis for asking questions. Because, as a rule, my dear colleagues, I ask you, if it works badly, we'll ask. That's it. Because everyone who screams doesn't send their children with pitchforks and hair to work. Keep your voice down. A draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the election of judges is put to the vote. [[10567-1]] Please vote. [[12:51:16]] For 268. The law is passed. Yes, Decree 10567-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u141	Please choose the Bojarsk Alexander Alexander the Judge of Bilgorod-Dniestrovsk City District Court of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u142	Please, a question. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u143	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, what is currently happening in the Supreme Council, this vote, is evidence of the construction of a clan system in Ukraine. In 20 years in Ukraine and including in the branch of the judiciary, in 20 years in Ukraine, such a system of government has been built that if you do not have money, when you have no adoptive parents, when you do not have a hairy arm, your child is unable to achieve anything in this life! This is the biggest crime you've ever committed. Not because you have a father or a son there, but because you have such a vote that you deny you the opportunity to reach something in the life of children from ordinary Ukrainian families. And these families are millions. And by your vote, you show them that if you don't have a dad, a mom, or like me, from a kindergarten, from the boarding school, thanks to God, you've broken through, and the others won't break through with you. Because you push your children, your brothers, your marriages, and so on. That is your crime against Ukraine and against the Ukrainian people! You're ashamed of what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The example here of the national MPs, Oleg Layashka, and your humble servants, is that we didn't have parents known, high, with positions, but we did get through life. So let's not rush everyone on the same page. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a motion for adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the election of a judge, please vote. [[Registration number 10567-2]] [[12:53:37]] For 264 Decision taken. Project Rule 10567-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u145	Please select judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis to serve as judges: The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of Opanasuka Alexander Dmitrovic; The Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Fedonuk Svetlana Jurijovna; The Court of Appeal of the Suman Region of Litovchenko Natalija Alexiyevna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Long Olga Ivanovna, Vitaly Semenović, Levitical Natalia Georgieva.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u146	Dear National Deputies! Please, Baby, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There's something else I'd like to draw our citizens' attention to right now watching what's going on in the Supreme Council Hall. Chechtov's colleague cited, as an example of democracy, examples of the American dynasty. I think that God saves us from the Chechtev Dynasty in Parliament, because this is the whole life that you will deny your offspring to wave hands for these bills. It's about choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u148	Please be specific. Please continue, complete according to the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u149	I'm specific and I'm talking. Where can we be more specific when people have neither the ability to work nor the ability to earn? Because you won't let them do it, you won't let them through. And so to the Head, more specifically to Mr. Pinchuck, who will report on the judges' issue, I ask you to continue when you have mud and goatee candidates, whom the popes, moms are pushing, sifting them off right away. Allow ordinary people to realize themselves, young ones to realize themselves, not to push themselves between these fats with mud parents. Be aware of your responsibility. That is why we have such a judicial system dependent on them when they follow orders from the authorities, when they give birth to a pack of political prisoners today in Ukraine, they shame us all over the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u150	Thank you. Please, Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u151	I'll ask you a question, then you'll answer it, if you don't mind. Mr. Pinchuk! Thank you. In the ruling you just read, in the file, and, here, there's no name for the Kraybukh of Helen Gennadive, the Equal Court of Appeal. Have you misread it or is there any reason why it fell off this list? Because we were given, not you, but our camera gave us information with her name on it. What happened? And there's no twig against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u152	What kind of determination is that? What's the verdict, the number?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u153	Supreme Council decree on the election of judges 10567-3. That's what's on my hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u154	Who's there?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u155	There isn't a Kruibukh of Helena Hennadian. The Plain Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u156	The draft regulation does not state that it is a candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u157	Dear colleagues, please! It could be in the data. Perhaps the term has not yet reached its end, and the committee has not submitted. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then let's work it out. We are now voting on the ruling. There is a motion for a vote to be adopted by the Supreme Council decision on the election of judges. [[10567-3]] Please vote. [[12:57:57]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, I would like to welcome on your behalf the judges whom we have just elected to office on an untimely basis and to wish them such a faithful service to the people and the law that there will be no criticism, including by the national MPs. [[Applause]] Not to mention people. Yes, I now invite the head of the High Council of Justice. Who's going to report? Let's do it, fellows of honor, that way. I just got word that Koleschenko Vladimir Mikolayovich can't get through here to the Supreme Council. As soon as he does, we will consider the question of the release of judges. No objections? Thank you. Now let's look at the other bills according to the queue. So we're going back to the second-reading question. I am announcing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the introduction of an electronic public procurement system]] [[Registration number 8633]] Report by Horin Irina Anatolyevna of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u158	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, Vladimir Mihajlovich! On 22 December, Act 8633 was adopted on first reading: “On State Procurement”. [[on the introduction of electronic reverse auction procedure]] The Committee, at its meeting on 22 May, took note of all the amendments that had been made to the second reading, of which 128 had been taken into account, 11 had not been taken into account, one had been partially taken into account, 4 and essentially 1. [[There were 145 of them.]] I would like to remind you that this bill was in Parliament until the adoption of a year and a half. Between the first and second readings, very serious work was done with all international organizations that work in Ukraine and control and are responsible for making the Public Procurement Act more transparent, more accurate. And we held 4 conferences with the World Bank and with the European Commission to harmonise legislation. It was not the first time that the bill had been before the committee. Members of the Committee. There was a lively discussion, and then there were editorial amendments. And this is what the Committee proposes to adopt on second reading and generally as a law by second reading. So you can go through the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u159	Amendment to the 12th, Mountain. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u160	Nope.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u161	Amendment 53, Yuri Carmazin. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u162	43rd, you mean?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u163	Well, I'm 53rd. If 43 isn't counted, let's go back to 43.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u164	Vladimir Mikhailovich, she's older than 53rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u165	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u166	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u167	Yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u168	43 revisions. I propose in a second paragraph, after saying, "The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine," to add, "according to the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." This addition is due to the fact that the author’s proposal to grant the right of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to determine the list of goods, jobs and services that the purchase of which would necessarily require the purchaser’s application of the electronic reverse auction procedure creates an opaque mechanism for selecting the purchase procedure. I believe that this should be done according to the agreement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will correspond to the constitutional authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u169	Dear Yuri Anatolyevich, the Committee is not alone in the question that the Supreme Council should approve those provisions that directly relate to the law and to public procurement facilities. But under the Law and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministries, this is the full competence of the authorized body, which is the Ministry of Economy and Trade. Therefore, the list to be considered by the Ministry of the Economy and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers will be the main fact in the law. Therefore, your amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u170	Amendment 43 of Yuri Karmazin shall be put to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:03:34]] For-27 No correction supported. Amendment 53 Yuri Karmazin
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin. I sincerely thank all those who supported what the Constitution should be, not the Kabmin law, which, by the way, contradicts the Constitution in this part. And so we were limiting that Supreme Council around, thinking that the MP didn't have the right to question the denunciation of ridiculous contracts. Thank God that the Constitutional Court worked at least once properly in this regard. I'm proposing part one, article 39 with a four-pointer in a different edition, and that's what I'm going to do. The operators of the electronic course are a legal person, regardless of the legal form, form of ownership, location and place of origin of the capital or physical as an individual entrepreneur, whose state registration is carried out in an orderly manner in Ukraine and which owns the electronic site required for its function by software and ensures that open auctions are conducted electronically in accordance with Ukrainian legislation. Additional requirements are also foreseen. I'm making an offer in connection with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u172	There are 53 amendments to the vote. [[13:05:05]] For-25 Correction not supported. Next amendment, number 60, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u173	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the 60th Amendment refers to another edition of article 39. The 5 that I'm proposing, and I've given you an editorial, a health editorial for a clean page. But I know that the aggressive majority won't support it. That is why I would like, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, to address you that we now have under the walls of the Supreme Council a concern of the All-Ukrainian Union of Chernobyl Veterans. They immediately assigned us, with the national MP Pavlovski, to give you the demands of the Supreme Council, the President and the Government of Ukraine. The requirements that say that if we fail to comply, these requirements have become possible as a result of the unconstitutional adoption of a decision on the State Guarantee Act on the enforcement of judicial decisions. And now we have a demonstration. I'm handing you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this address to respond to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u174	Let's finish the question, and then in the solemn setting, you hand it to me, let's do it. It's an amendment to the 60th vote. [[13:06:47]] For-23 Correction not supported. Next, Carmazine, 86th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u175	What have you announced, Vladimir Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u176	86th, next call.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u177	Eighty-six?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u178	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I propose in article 39 that the first word in paragraph 8 replace the first word "one to five" with the words "two" and then the next word. With regard to the adoption of the law on guarantees of enforcement, unfortunately, the law has been passed in such a way that until now people do not know what the law is. gave the Cabinet a year before 2014 to make proposals. And that law has entered into force since January 2013, and so far it does not have to be implemented. And I want to remind you that the debt of the state is 230 billion on the basis of an unenforced court decision to the state, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u180	Amendment 86 shall be put to the vote. [[13:08:21]] For-21 The decision is not taken. Next up, Yuri Carmazin, again, 96th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin. In Amendment 96, I propose in Article 39 that you replace the second digit "20" with the number "5" and then the text. This proposal is based on the need to reconcile this bill with the applicable law. The draft documents do not provide a justification for the extent to which the procurement contract is executed, based on an electronic reverse auction procedure, which cannot exceed 20 per cent of the value of the contract, given that, according to the valid rule in article 26 of the Law on State Procurement, the level of security for the performance of the purchase contract cannot exceed 5 per cent of the value of the contract. That is why I propose that this position be changed. Thank you. Please be supportive. The offer is not political.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u182	The vote is amended by 96 Yuri Karmazin. Please identify yourself. [[13:09:52]] For-21 Correction not accepted. Other amendments are all included.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u184	There are amendments to the unaccounted for by Irina Gorina, she refuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u185	I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u186	Dear National Deputies! The committee proposes to adopt the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority, some of whom the committee disagreed with. I put to the vote a regulatory requirement for the adoption of a second reading and generally as a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement concerning the introduction of an electronic public procurement system. [[Registration number 8633]] Please vote. [[13:10:50]] For 229 Decision taken. By factions, please: The Party of Regions – 184, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" -1, Communists – 0, National Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues! In connection with the appeal, including Yuri Karmazin, to me on behalf of the law, to guarantee the execution of the court's decisions. [[9127]] Dear colleagues, I would ask you all to read this law. What are the benefits of this law? This is a requirement, first of all, for the unconditional execution of court decisions, internal and external decisions. The other one. If the court’s decision is not executed within three months at the right time, a penny is paid for failure to comply with the court’s decisions. The other one. It is an attraction to the responsibility of individuals, legal persons, who are guilty of failing to execute a court decision, including imprisonment. This will not depend on the damage of the state budget, but will be done by those who are responsible. The only institution that's going to do this job is defined as the State Treasury for the payment of the corresponding funds. There's one problem. In this law, it is not clear how to deal with the decisions of the courts that were taken to enact this law. In view of this, the Cabinet of Ministers is tasked with standardizing the problem. I'll remind you, fellow honourable colleagues, that when this bill was introduced and the Final Positions were in place, the factions proposed, including the opposition ones. Cleansing up Prinz’s position and putting him in the hall immediately, since this is a standard of execution, including the ruling of the European Court of Justice. So I'd like to first study this law and then create problems around this law. For there are no exceptions and restrictions, O God, that what is foretold may be done as a minimum. So I'm counting on our common understanding of shared responsibility here. Announcing the appointment of out - of - turn local elections. The rapporteur is the head of the State Building Committee subcommittee. What was not in harmony? So that's exactly what this is about. Top, please, Sergey Petrovich. Dear colleagues, we have jumped, we should now consider removing the disagreement in the text of the adopted law. Now let's take a look at this question, and then the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u187	Your Honor, your colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government considered, at its meeting on 6 June 2012, the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Vladimir Lithuania to submit proposals to the Parliament of Ukraine, in line with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the date of the appointment of extraordinary elections to local self-government bodies. As a result, the committee notes this. Taking into account the recommendation of the OSCE, the Congress of the Regional Local Authorities of the Council of Europe, the results of the mission report and the monitoring of the elections of 26 March 2006 on the relevance of organising local elections separately from parliamentary elections, the provisions of Ukraine's laws on the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of the Crimea of Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban and Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, which, among other things, did not provide for the possibility of holding parliamentary and local elections by one and the same regional election committees, and in one chamber for voting. As of 24 May 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Office, issued by 07/2-314 on the simultaneous holding of local and parliamentary elections, the committee had already raised questions before the Supreme Council about the appropriateness of divorce at the time of the early elections to local self-government bodies and the election of Ukrainian national deputies, proposing to change the date of the successive elections of individual rural, rural and urban heads on Sunday 5 August 2012. [[99207]] Today, bearing in mind that the Committee's proposal was not finally considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the May 24, 2011, plenary session, the Committee further examines the situation regarding the date for the appointment of individual rural, rural and urban head elections, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine appoint individual rural, rural and urban heads for Sunday, September 9, 2012. On that date, the committee noted that the district election boards of out-of-order and local elections, which could be held on September 9, 2012, had suspended their mandate on September 22, 2012. Individuals who were formerly members of the regional election boards at the local elections on September 9 may be included in the election of Ukraine’s national deputies on October 28, 2012. Taking into account the calendar lord of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call scheduled for the last plenary session on July 6, and the fact that, in accordance with the requirements of the Local Elections Act, the successive local elections are to be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Sunday no later than 60 days before the election day, the committee stresses that on September 9, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be appointed by the local elections, including Friday, July 6. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: First. Following article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the results of the May 17, 2012, vote for the decision to elect individual rural, rural and urban heads, namely, the decisions proposed to appoint alternate local elections for October 28, 2012, which have not yet been signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have not taken effect and to adopt these decisions with effect from 9 September 2012. These are the decisions with the registration numbers of projects 10369 and 10396-17, namely, the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Zorzoan Rural Head of the Chuguyaw district of Kharkiv district; the Borov village head of Shevchenkov district of Kharkiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u188	Sergei Petrovich, maybe you don't have to count, the numbers said all this data is, you don't have to count.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u189	Well, the law enforcement asked for it to be announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u190	Well, please announce it then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u191	The friendly village head of the region of John’s Land; Tinist village head of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea district of Bahchisarai; The Homiakov village head of the Tisminsky district of Johno-Frankow region; Odradokamyan village head of the region of Borislav in the Hersonian region; Svetlinen village head of the region of Chernigiv. Pekarov village head of the Sosnicki district of Chernigiv region Tarsatian village head of the region of Czernovetsec; Dorotishten village head of the Kovel district of Volin district; Chelyadinov village head of Lenin district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea; The Cranian village head of the Kakhov district of the Hersonian region; The hairy village head of the Letician region; Petrikowitz village head of Voločice district of Hmelnicke district; The Nesterovite village head of the Danube region of the Hmelnitsk Region; Toporov village head of Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk district; The Adamic head of the Vrádivian region of the Mikolai region; The God - Duct city head of the God - Duct district of Kharkiv Please support by voting the committee's proposal to appoint out-of-order elections in these popular paragraphs on September 9. The other one. In May 18, 2012, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft regulations with registration numbers 10487 to 10487-13, which were not considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the May 24 plenary meeting, and which also provided for the date of the election on October 28th. The committee proposes to change the date of the election to September 9 when it adopts decisions on these draft decisions. Please support these projects, as well as the draft regulations that were discussed on June 6, yesterday, 11 of them, heads of agriculture; 10 in connection with the application and 1 in connection with death. These are the regulations, the registration numbers: 10487-14, well, they all are. You can't read these. Please support all three suggestions. All elections are scheduled for September 9, 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u192	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what we're talking about. On May 17, you and I voted for the election, and we appointed a date there on October 28. When these documents were processed in the legal office, the question arose that this would make it more difficult for the elections to be held, since two committees would have to be set up for a separate vote. And then the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council, to write a letter to me, not to sign for the Supreme Council's consideration in order to clarify the date. And he suggested that the decisions that the reporter had just made should be amended instead of the October 28, 2012, date of September 9. So if the Supreme Council supports this, we need to vote on the change in the dates of the elections to those decisions that we have already made with you on May 17th. That's why I'm putting a proposal to the vote. Well, please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u193	Dear reporter, it has recently been known that the city’s city chief, Leonid Chernewecki, has written a statement stating that he is in charge. And different comments come from the leaders of the largest faction there about what they determine when the elections in Kiev will take place. So I would like to refer to you as a committee, ask those commentators who call different dates -- 2013, 2012, autumn, spring. Let's also define in the elections in Kiev. This is not the smallest place in Ukraine. And to keep the kyans who were deprived of local self-government today as a result of cancelling the circuit boards and completely blocking by one political power of the city council and the appointment of the city governor, I would say that he was not chosen by the kyans. The problem needs to be solved. So I'd like the committee to take the initiative on this issue, and we've ever solved it. When will the elections take place in Kiev?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u194	Thank you. I'll answer that question. The Committee considered the problem in great detail, discussed it, made all legal conclusions and recommended that the date be set for the start of the political factions, so that the number of votes should be 226. In view of the information that Leonid Chernewicki has written, I have asked the secretary of the Kyiv City Council to confirm first that this statement is, secondly, for them to consider the issue and submit an appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Stanislav Arjevitin! It's not an evening of questions and answers. We are voting on specific questions. Upstairs, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u195	Dear colleagues! Yesterday on the committee, I made a comment on what really is happening today is a lot of different choices about elections in Kiev. I think the Supreme Council should act exclusively within the limits of the law. Today, the Law provides for the appointment of elections as the city’s head of Kiev, as the Kyiv Council only to the outpost. The elections under the current Constitution will take place in 2014 and all at the same time. Therefore, we may have reason to appoint only out - of - turn elections. For this purpose, Kyivrada must suspend the authority of the city’s head in time. As soon as that happens, the committee is ready to consider the matter within one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u196	Thank you. If only on specific proposals. Please, Arjovitin. On what specific issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u197	Dear reporter, please tell me. The second year already in the largest village in the Zakarpat district of Mižgir, the village of Kolocava, has no village heads and no elections are scheduled. Please tell me, what is it? Why isn't your committee considering the election in the village of Kolocava in the district of Mižgir district of Zakarpat?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u198	So I can't answer that right now. Maybe we don't have the proper authorities, there's no appeal to the Supreme Council to appoint such out-of-court elections. If the appeal comes and is in line with the legislation, the committee will deal with the matter very quickly and will appoint an election. I can take a note of your question and we'll see what's really going on in Zacarpathian today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u199	Thank you. Blackwolf, microphone. I will also ask you to prepare a committee secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u200	Your Honor, I have a question for you. Well, you've gone some simple way: you can't go along with the parliamentary elections, and you can't. First, just in different rooms. And secondly, the committee could take the initiative to go back to the old norm that was in the previous election law to the local councils, where it was written: if local elections were to be scheduled for the day when the public elections were to take place, they would go through the Elections Act to the Supreme Council. And it's a very simple option where you can solve the questions in every village, both in Kiev, and in the city of Chernivka, and in dozens, and in hundreds of locations. What's more, it's in the Ternopil region. [[Well, I'm being tipped off.]] And more than that, we still have time to do it. By the beginning of July, it's time to prepare it, vote. These are simple changes to the Law on Elections to Local Authorities. And they need to be there. It still needs to be changed because it's stupid.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u201	I ask the committee to study this issue and make appropriate suggestions. Dear National Deputies! I am voting on the proposal to amend the rulings that we adopted on May 17 concerning the appointment of the extra-curricular elections in part: from October 28, 2012 to September 9, 2012. Please vote. [[13:28:11]] For 269 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, we need to consider draft regulations for the selection of out-of-order elections, in view of the fact that they will also have a specific date: not on October 28, 2012, but on September 9, 2012. Puts the vote to the vote. And we can't, we can't. You need each and every one of them. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to be passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of the Malokopanian head election. [[Malocopan Village Council of the Zakarpat region]] [[Registration number 10487]] Please vote. [[13:29:09]] For 264 Decision taken. Baliko-Schuchin village head. [[Baliko-Stuchinsk village council of the Kagarlic district of Kyiv region]] [[10487-1]] [[13:29:36]] For 262 Decision taken. The lordly head of the country. [[Governmental Rural Council of the Kyiv Region of Poland]] [[10487-2]] [[13:30]] For 260 Decision taken. A light - colored village head. [[The Svetlogir Rural Council of the Kobeljak District of Poltava Region]] [[10487-3]] [[13:30:23]] For 260 Decision taken. Philip’s rural head. [[Philippine Village Council of the District of Johno-Francovian Region]] [[10487-4]] Please vote. [[13:30:46.]] For 266 Decision taken. Wozniak village head. [[Wozniesen Rural Council of the Mikolai District]] [[10487-5]] [[13:31:11]] For 266 Decision taken. Chuginian village head. [[Chungin Rural Council of the Lugansk Region]] [[10487-6]] [[13:31:36]] For 268. Decision taken. Denise's head, 10487-7. [[Denisov Rural Council of the Kozov district of Ternopil district]] [[13:32:01]] For 269 Decision taken. Lithuanian village head, 10487-8. [[Lithuanian Village Council of the Ternopil region]] [[13:32:29]] For 270. Decision taken. Male village head, 10487-9. [[Male Village Council of the Ternopil district of Podgajet]] [[13:32:53]] For 265 Decision taken. Ploskov village head, 10487-10. [[Ploskova Rural Council of the Czernovets region of Putil]] [[13:33:17]] For 263 Decision taken. New Ukraine's head, 10487-11. [[The New Ukraine Rural Council of the Odessa Region]] [[13:33:43]] For 262 Decision taken. The ultimate village head. [[The Final Council of the Yávorov Region of Lviv Region]] [[10487-12]] [[13:34:09]] For 262 Decision taken. It's a NovoBilokorovic village head. [[NovoBilokorovicka Village Council of the Oleuvian Region of Žitomir Region]] [[10487-13]] [[13:34:35]] For 262 Decision taken. Fedivian village head. [[Fedivian Rural Council of the Rechetil district of Poltava region]] [[10487-14]] [[13:34:59]] For 265 Decision taken. An unchristian farmer's head. [[Nechlodovian Rural Council of the Kupyan district of Kharkiv Region]] [[10487-15]] [[13:35:24]] For 265 Decision taken. Pugachov village head. [[Pugachov Rural Council of the Cherkas region of Uman]] [[10487-16]] Please vote. [[13:35:49]] For 269 Decision taken. Peanut head. [[Prussian Rural Council of the District of Ivano-Frankiv Region]] [[10487-17]] [[13:36:13]] For 267 Decision taken. Ostrozhana’s Rural Head [[Ostrozhana Village Council of the Cherkas region]] [[10487-18]] [[13:36:38]] For 265 Decision taken. A Malosaltanian village head. [[Malosaltanian Village Council of the Basilk district]] [[10487-19]] [[13:37:06]] For 261 Decision taken. Red Replaced Rural Head. [[Krasno-Zamen village council of the region of Poltava]] [[10487-20]] [[13:37:32]] For 266 Decision taken. Borsukiah village head. [[Borsukiya Rural Council of the Lanovecki District of Ternopil Region]] [[10487-21]] [[13:37:57]] For 261 Decision taken. Victorian village head. [[Victorian Rural Council of the Ternopil region]] [[10487-22]] [[13:38:21]] For 269 Decision taken. And Rostan's village head. [[Rostany Village Council of the Shaka District of Volin Region]] [[10487-23]] [[13:38:45]] For 267 Decision taken. Makarov village head. [[Makarov village council of Shiriyai district of Odessa]] [[10487-24]] [[13:39:09]] For 263 I'll take the order. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have a separate draft of the Order for the Assignment of Elections of the South Ukrainian City Head. [[South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai Region]] My beard, please, briefly. Since then, the committee will have his own opinion, as will the Podgorny, which is the committee’s decision. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u202	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed by a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of consecutive elections of the South Ukrainian city head. [[Registration number 10306 from 06.04.2012]] According to decisions of the South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai district of 07.03. In 2012, on the basis of paragraph 4 of the first part of article 79 of the Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine and the Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption in relation to the violation of the compatibility restrictions imposed by the Court of Justice on the authority of the South Ukrainian Urban Head, Stolin Andrija Mikolaiovich, were suspended on a permanent basis. [[No. 474]] The violation of the jurisdictional restrictions is established by the ruling of the South Ukrainian City Court of the Mikolai District on 29.11.2011, which took effect on 26 January 2012, according to the ruling of the Court of Appeal of the Mikolai district. In 1301.2012, Stulin Alexander Mikhailovich made an administrative appeal to the South Ukrainian City Court of the Mikolai district. By the approval of the court of 1403, Stulin was denied an administrative order. In the same lawsuit of 13.03, Stulin, a South Ukrainian city chief, appealed to Polycanne as the secretary of the South Ukrainian City Council for its illegality. On March 27, a decision was made to leave the case pending. On April 11, 2012, the South Ukrainian City Court's decision to comply with Stolina's external requirements was rejected. It's 15.03. In 2012, the South Ukrainian City Council addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with concern about the appointment of the South Ukrainian Urban Head in turn. Taking into account the above and the situation in South Ukraine’s Mikolai district, which deprives the city’s territorial community of the right to exercise local self - government, there is an urgent need today for the appointment of the post office of the South Ukrainian city chief of the Mikolai district. The adoption of the proposed project will contribute to the implementation of the Constitution and the law of Ukraine and will ensure the proper functioning of the South Ukrainian territorial community of the Mikolai region. Thank you for your attention. Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u203	Yes, please have a seat. Sonchenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, please. And there's a date to clarify the election. Then we should propose a date for the committee to propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u204	So I'm asking for an election date on September 9th, which would be offered by a committee and a second.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u205	Okay, please, Victor Mikolaiovich, deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u206	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government reviewed the submission of the People’s Deputy of Maybeard and supported the conduct of the city’s head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u207	Thank you, too. Sergey the Upper, please. The committee decided to grant the right to speak with an alternative point of view.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u208	Honorable Presidency, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to point out that for the first time in years of our committee's work, this decision was made not for legal reasons, not on a legal basis, but solely for political reasons. The practice of the committee consisted in such a way that when there were judicial cases in a village, a village, a city where a decision was being brought against it, the committee always postponed the matter until all such cases were completed and a dot was placed. In this case, really, Stulin's city chief appealed to the court about the wrongness of the council's decision, and these cases are still pending, they're still in court. And I am addressing, Vladimir Mikhailovich, it will be very sad if, after the Supreme Council has reached its decision, there will be a court ruling that recognizes that the decision of the Council is not lawful, taking into account one of the last decisions of the Constitutional Court. He pointed out that the foundation in which the head of Stulin is accused in a given case is not the basis for an end to the term of office. We all remember this decision of the Constitutional Court, which took place in the case of MPs from the Party of the Regions. So I don't understand why this haste in the decision. And I think, more than that the date proposed by the author today, September 9, the committee, unfortunately, did not consider. This question was once considered, with a violation, once again, all of our earlier legal bases, accepted and all. Therefore, I propose, honourable deputies, not to support this decision today. There's time, there's gonna be a court case, and then there's gonna be a vote, and there's gonna be an election, if that's what it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u209	Thank you. Gennady Bully, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u210	Thank you. Indeed, the situation near South Ukraine is quite strange, for there are signs of politically motivated decisions regarding the removal of an ex - city head from his post. In fact, we're opening Pandora's and the Supreme Council, a precedent that's quite dangerous. Because all decisions must be because of the committee’s decision, not by the decision of individual national deputies. In fact, I have an MP from Santa Claus who's watching this, because there's actually, we're not going to be a political part of talking about it. But there really is a question and there is a decision of the court, but in fact these decisions have not yet made a point. I propose that we listen to the suggestions of our colleague to the head of the subcommittee that we do not consider and vote in favour of the matter today. That's why I have an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u212	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! You know, even though they sometimes criticize our Parliament for taking a slow decision, it's not fast. But on the other hand, it's probably the right thing to do. We should not be sensitive to decision-making, but should carefully examine. And as for South Ukraine, kind of a small, small and small town, not to compare with Kiev on a scale, but we have been on the election agenda for several weeks now, and we have been discussing this issue on the agenda of the Supreme Council for months. And I think today he's just matured for a logical conclusion. And the absolute majority of deputies support the proposal to hold, to set a date for the elections. I think it's a balanced decision that was born through such profound reflection for several months. The outcome on the board would indicate the fairness of the decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u213	Ladies and gentlemen, here are two suggestions. The committee's first proposal was to adopt this document and our colleague Podgorny made a special statement. Dear colleagues, the second proposal is not to rush into making decisions. Well, for the sake of order of order, I'm going to put these proposals to the vote. But when I put to the vote the draft regulation 10306, I will read the text of the preamble, which has been worked out, from the technical point of view of legal practice and proposed by the committee. In connection with the suspension of the powers of the South Ukrainian City Head of Stulin, and in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 14, part one and part five, articles 60-61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village and Urban Heads, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. [[South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai Region]] And then by date, September 9, 2012. Taking these proposals into account, I put to the vote a recommendation from the Committee on the Adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of consecutive elections of the South Ukrainian City Head. [[Registration number 10306]] [[South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai Region]] Please vote. [[13:49:51]] For 240 I'll take the order. Dear National Deputies! The factions? Please. Region Party – 183, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 0, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 1, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 9. Dear colleagues, we need to consider two questions before we stop. First. With regard to the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Certain Tax Standards. You remember that we passed the law, the Committee made the necessary clarifications in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules. [[Registration number 9661-D]] The principal legal office worked and signed, and all visas were submitted to this document. According to article 131.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u214	And it says, "To the adoption of the law as a whole." And we passed the law! What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u215	Please. After the adoption of the law, amendments are made. I put to the vote a decision on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Improvement of Certain Tax Standards Please vote. [[Registration number 9661-d]] [[13:51:31]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the Head of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Vladimir Mikolayovich, is present. We ask that we consider the question of the release of judges. In connection with the Euro, everything is covered up, and it is impossible to get there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u216	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u217	Let's draft a ruling, please. [[Registration number 10568]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u218	The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 29 May this year, pursuant to section 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law of Ukraine on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, also article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to apply the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges have found out their will to do so. There was no adverse influence in their decision-making. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: Kharkiv Farm Court of Appeal Bilokon Nina Dmitrovna - in connection with the application for resignation; Shirayiv District Court of Odessa, Jankovsky Valerija Kostinović, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a Supreme Council ruling on the release of judges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10568]] Please vote. [[13:53:15]] For 263 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u221	There's a telegram for the draft decision, registration number 10510-1. I don't know if she's in the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u222	Yes. What is sick and what is presented is the corresponding documents. He wants to participate. I'm asking you to put it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, according to law and logic, the suggestion is to postpone consideration until the time when this judge will be present at the meeting so that he can answer questions if they arise, since it is about releasing him for violating the judge's oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u224	What? Please, Sulkowski, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u225	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! It's very nice when we fire some of them, if there's not one or two of them, the other you say, maybe 100 times he's playing tricks, not showing up here in the sitting room, and you say, until then he won't be here. For example, for five years in the district of Ravenna, the judge did not consider any cases. Criminal cases were repeatedly violated by the Ternopil Public Prosecutor’s Office, closed by court, and then violated. To this day criminal matters continue. Killed in Lutsk. This judge's car, which I wasn't at the previous meeting, and you were here and you voted, and he's driving the judge's car to death, and to this day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u226	Thank you. I answer to my esteemed colleague. Dear colleagues, calm down. I answer that we only use the Rules and the Law. I'll tell you that on May 15, the High Council of Justice filed a motion for the dismissal of a judge. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considered this committee and brought it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. There is a telegram that is officially certified that a person is sick. This is the first time we can't address this issue. Please. You haven't spoken in a while, I understand. Please, Shershun, is that what you're talking about? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u227	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I want to support my colleague Sulkovsky again, because we are the same. He skipped a simple, excuse me for such a word, Judge Timoschuk, who, in fact, has a criminal past behind him and which is not justified by anything, nothing, no courts today. And today it's the same thing with another judge who's applying the same system again. As soon as they see that the Equinox deputies are in the hall, a telegram appears, and he is sick. That's why I think I said it at the time, and now I'm saying that the Supreme Council needs to be respected. And then we made a decision about the previous judge that he was no longer going to be in our session hall, and we did, and the Supreme Council missed because we weren't there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u228	Dear National Deputies! The Plains especially! I'm asking you to read the document. Personal sympathy, antipathy is your business. But according to the law, if it is not available for the first time, we have no right to consider. Everything else we do is by law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, don't be hysterical. Don't be hysterical! You're hurting me. I comply with the requirements of the law and what the head of the High Council recommends. Katerina Samuelk. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now consider the adoption of the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations. And we'll finish the morning session. Anything, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u229	And on a very good note, because in March, you and I discussed at parliamentary hearings the theme "Earth in rural areas: crisis trends and ways to overcome them." At a high level, there was a discussion: specifically, clearly, with specific proposals. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education considered everyone without excluding the proposal and making a comment. That everyone, without exception, found their reflection in this decree, in the recommendations or in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, or in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For example, I would like to say that we have foreseen and resolved the question of the completion of the rural school classes, the promotion of social guarantees for teaching workers working in rural areas; the provision of pensions with appropriate assignments has been given to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the simplification of public procurement procedures that are carried out by organizations and educational institutions; and changes to the Budget Code. By the way, it's already implemented and the draft proposals for the Budget Code is there. As did the proposals for preschool education. You and I considered on Tuesday in our first reading a bill that will help revive preschool education -- the first link of our education in the village, supporting the tutor, doing everything to improve the material base, the free feeding of our children, and, of course, medical care. We have made appropriate recommendations for the development of Ukraine's State Budget for 2013 and for all the years to come that we need to do, especially with regard to our rural school. You know, according to the President's decree, we have a special program. We propose that in the State budget for the following year, the state-owned target rural development programme by 2015 should be part of the construction, reconstruction, capital repairs to ensure that all of this is foreseen. It's probably the only decision that takes into account the opinions of everyone who doesn't belong to either the majority or the minority, but the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken your thoughts into account. And we ask you very much to take this decision so that we can work on its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a motion for a vote on the adoption of the Supreme Council Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Education in Rural Areas: Crisis Trends and Ways to Overcome It. [[Registration number 10490]] Please vote. [[14:01:35]] For 267 Decision taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 179, "BUT – "Fathership" – 14, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 6. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine set out here: to ensure the adoption of laws, including the filling of classes in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-07-m0.u231	That's the way to vote. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. After 16 hours, after 16 hours, we will continue our consideration of the issues set out in the June 7 schedule.
