ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:46]] Cards were registered in the 398 National Deputies Sessional Hall. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, we continue our consideration of Tuesday’s February 7th schedule. I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (for the establishment of responsibility for violations of the rules on the transport of children less than 145 cm or those who have not reached the age of 12). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Right, Victor Dmitrovich? [[16:01:49]] For-179 Decision taken. Please report to the chairman of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u2	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! We are witnessing that every day an enormous number of people die on Ukraine’s roads. Even more people become disabled as a result of road accidents. I don't want to repeat this sad and terrible statistics, but I want to say, and especially to emphasize that out of this large number of road traffic accidents, there are lots of children. The point is that our Road Traffic Regulations, used by the State Automobile Inspectorate, provide for, I repeat, for children under 12 years of age or not more than three feet [45 cm]. So this is already in the Road Traffic Rules. But the responsibility for violating these rules has not been established. In this regard, I propose to amend the Code of Administrative Offences accordingly and to introduce administrative responsibility for those who violate the rules governing the transport of young children. We think, and I think that our liberal legislation in the area of road safety should be as strict as possible and relative to those who manage transport and do not ensure the life and safety of the children who are transported in these means of transport. The Legislature Committee at its meeting reviewed the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on its first reading as a basis. I would like to emphasize once again, my dear colleagues, the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u3	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u4	One minute. They're already in the Road Traffic Rules. All I'm suggesting is that you have responsibility for breaking these rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u5	Thank you, Victor Dmitriovich. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to make a statement on this bill, please sign in. Vladimir Kaplienko, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill both in the first reading and in the second reading even without amendment. So if we put him to the vote in general and today. On the basis and in general, we would support it. I would like to remind you that that revolutionary norm that was adopted in 2008 by the Cabinet of 876 actually brought us closer to European standards. I'd like to remind you that in Germany a child who already owns his own mind doesn't get in the car with any of his relatives if it doesn't have such a special device for carrying a child, this chair. We have such requirements today, as if they do, but there is no punishment. How many children today ride in cars with their parents or other persons not only in this chair but also not wearing seat belts at all. How many children die with their parents today in the event of one or more road accidents. Of course there is. Recently, a representative of DAI spoke, saying that nothing could save the child except strong motherly hands. You know, I just wanted to hit this guy's hands and remind him that if, even at 60 kilometers per hour, a car encounters a flat barrier, in this case, the level of stress that a child receives in this case or an adult is equal to 30. So you can't hold it in your hands. That's a few tons. Therefore, in order to save children, we must support such bills, if we are to enforce administrative responsibility for such offences, we must do so immediately. The faction will support, even if you put it all together, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who else insists on the performance? I can't see. Dear colleagues, the committee is offering to take the floor. The main scientific and expert office is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. Let's maybe take it as a basis, and in the process of processing, let's see what we can do next, even though it will be possible to measure the children that they are now growing, maybe three inches or more. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (to establish responsibility for violations of the rules on the transport of children less than 145 cm or those who have not reached the age of 12) (registration No. 9077). Please vote. [[16:07:51]] Z-85 The decision is not taken. The voices were not enough. The bill is not supported, so it is rejected. I propose a draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[on informing citizens about lack of gluten in food]] [[8493 Bill Registration Number]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:08:42]] For 207 Decision taken. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Viacheslav Grigorovich Pierrei, reports. The chairman of the Committee on Health Care, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviv, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say a few words about the substance of the law. The essence of the law is that 1 per cent of the inhabitants of the country, including Ukrainians, suffer from a disease that many of you have never heard of, and it is called celecia. In a broad sense, words are food intolerance. Food intolerance in this case of what? Wheat, rye, barley, oats and products thereof. And we're the only country with you in Europe that doesn't mark products, and if it does, we have folk artists, for example, young breads, who write, "No Gluten" and actually have gluten. And for these patients, gluten is poison. And these people die and suffer, young people die, usually from 20 to 50 years of age, for two reasons: intestinal haemorrhage and lymphoma. And there's a lot of money to treat these people. All treatment is to correctly diagnose and properly prescribe a diet. And to do that, you have to label products, as is done all over the world, with the word "no gluten." That's all, the whole point of the law. If there's any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. Because in two minutes, we'll talk about the nature of the disease itself and its manifestations. They're suffering, they're sick, they've been suffering for years before they're in good hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u9	Thank you, Vjacheslav Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. The committee's decision will be reported by the committee's deputy chairman, Corge. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u10	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, Health Committee, reviewed the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[on informing citizens about lack of gluten in food]] [[Registration number 8493]] The main purpose of the bill is to prevent exacerbation and life-threatening complications in patients with celiac disease, one of the most common genetic diseases caused by gluten intolerance by ensuring that consumers are informed of their lack of food. Gluten is a vegetable protein that belongs to a class of wheat, barley, rice and oats. The bill proposes to set additional requirements for food labelling, namely to reflect the absence of gluten in the food product to the inscription "no gluten" if its food content does not exceed 200 milligrams per 100 grams. This is generally in line with international requirements. Yes, the 2009 European Union Commission Regulation on food storage and labelling for food products intended for people who do not carry glue has applied two types of inscriptions: "low gluten" and "no gluten". However, according to the rules laid down in this Regulation, the availability of such inscriptions is required only for specially processed foods, a group of which are defined by the term “food” for people who do not carry glue. In view of the fact that the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act does not contain such a term, the bill's proposed form of information to the population will make it necessary to label "no gluten" in all without excluding food. While gluten is contained only in certain species. While supporting the legislative initiative as a whole, the committee considers it appropriate to reflect on the food label, not on the lack of gluten, but on its availability. Marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u11	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u12	This proposal is supported by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There is also a need to postpone the date of validity of the law in the event of its adoption, in view of the requirements of the World Trade Organization. In view of the above, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a bill as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So maybe we should vote in favour of making the right decision? No warning? It's a serious problem, isn't it? Well, is there a need to speak? Please sign up. Names of the national deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. Ivan Kirilenko will be speaking. Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u14	Dear Head, dear colleagues! It is not that simple to come from this high rostrum of parliamentary bills of opposition. So I went to this rostrum to support without exaggerating my colleague, a scholar with the world name Pierre Wijacheslav Grigorovich. And notice, the science-expert statement says, "Summaries cause about 500,000 people in Ukraine." Now let's take a look at the following figures that he's giving in his reasoning. At least 1 percent of patients with this dangerous disease are diagnosed in the European Union. We have several times more important products in the structure of the menu than in Europe, and Ukrainian ecology does not produce comments, and immunity in this regard, especially for the growing generation, does not generate comments, so the problem is the big letter problem. And when this great man came out to this rostrum to protect these people, my friends, we need to be supportive. In simple words, bread, weeds -- first of all, all the breadwinners know, that's first of all protein, glue. These are the breadwinner’s qualities of bread and bread. Regrettably, it is an inferior protein that causes, including the problems that my outstanding colleague spoke about. Dear friends, there is this problem in Ukraine. These people must be protected, at least by the method that he described in his law today. Let's support it, despite the fact that it's a proposal from a member of the opposition, but it's extremely relevant and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u15	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u16	Vladimir Karpuk. Professor Viacheslav Grigorovich Piederija’s legislative initiative, although external simplicity, would seem to be of great importance. Because it is the legislation that makes it possible to achieve prevention and to a large extent to treat the already available celiac disease. Vejacheslav Grigorovitch, like Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, said he was a truly learned gastroenterologist with a world name, he studied the problem for a long time and knows it best. Official statistics are far from realistic. And those figures, called in the reports, are far from the real figures that Vjacheslav Grigorovich gives in his explanatory note. Because even from official statistics, almost 50 percent of them are under the age of 18 who are developing a future that has already suffered from this disease since they were young. And a simple method, just an instruction or so, or as suggested by the committee, is already allowing for the prevention and treatment of the disease. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this bill. I think he's going to be working on the committee, and that's what's going to really affect the disease in this pathology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u17	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u18	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, is of course that if we listen to a person who has very high authority, he has certain professional and practical knowledge that cannot be subjected to it, if one has not crossed it, and the data that is given in the explanatory note that about 500,000 people in Ukraine who may or may not be ill in the consumption of those or other products that affect their health, this bill certainly aims to improve the health of our population, and this bill needs to be supported, at my point of view. And in general, if you look at the dynamics, the trend in our society, as in recent years, the decade of our population is getting more and more sick, more and more new diseases are emerging, then of course one of the preventive measures, I think, is food. And in our country, there is every possibility that our food will be of a very high quality that will have a positive impact on the health of the population. And as a legislative body, we need to do everything and support loving initiatives that are designed to make it impossible for us to distribute or produce products that may have negative elements or that may not be usable, or to endanger the health of our population. Think about just one number. According to the Ministry of Economics last year, about 3,000 companies produced food products, monitoring, and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. And as a result of the monitoring, 84 percent of these manufacturers, the food they produce, they don't match the quality indicators or they have some kind of problem that doesn't allow them to use or distribute these products for population consumption. And more and more of this is in our agenda. If you look at some channels that distribute this information, we have products like milk products.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u20	The product, the dairy, the meat product, is often out of quality, cannot be eaten, it has a negative impact on the health of the population. So I propose this bill, as one of the elements, to support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. Please, Valery Kamchatny, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u22	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. On behalf of the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, we also propose to support this bill, which is extremely relevant. In fact, it was called a figure today, about half a million people suffer from one of the most common genetic diseases — celiac disease. But, the justice of the council, I want to say with all due respect to Professor Pierrey, whom we respect that this bill has been tabled, not by opposition, but by a group of national MPs, except the opposition, the authors of the bill are both Bacheviv and Gorina. And if we were invited, our group, to be co-authors of this bill, we would also be very pleased to do so, because this is not an opposition problem, not a majority, but a humanitarian problem, a public problem. And the next. We support the committee's proposal that it should be marked not to be available, but not to be absent, because otherwise we will come to the point where on a bottle of mineral water, as they now say, "no GMO," it will be written, "no gluten." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I remind you of the committee's conclusion: to accept the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert management: "The bill can be accepted as a basis." I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 38 of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[on informing citizens about lack of gluten in food]] [[Registration number 8493]] Please vote. [[16:23:08]] For 353 Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under review. [[on the increase of criminal responsibility for the abuse of the memory of Soviet liberators]] [[Registration numbers 8150, 8150-1]] I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:23:57]] For 241 Decision taken. Ukrainian National Rapporteurs: Peter Simonenko and Viacheslav Kirilenko The focal point is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Yuri Prokopchuk's activities. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the draft law that I propose is designed to protect historical memory and justice, as well as the respect of our entire Ukrainian people for the military glory of their noble defenders. The adoption of the bill is due to the fact that during the years of independence there have been widespread acts of abuse of military sanctuaries that perpetuate the exploits of the Soviet people, the Red Army fighters, the underworlders, guerrillas during the Great War. They're fairly perceived. These facts are referred to as citizens of Ukraine as the abuse of the heroic past of our people and the sacred memory of those who saved the world from a brown plague of fascism at the cost of their lives. These facts are highlighted by the UN General Assembly resolution adopted on December 21, 2010. It was this resolution that expressed concern about attempts to stop, distort or destroy monuments built in memory of those who fought against Nazism during World War II, and we, in the Soviet Union, during the Great War. We have witnessed with you how we have tried and implemented these programs by certain political forces of nationalistic orientation, just to destroy this memory, to rewrite history, to burn down this great feat. That's why we're a faction of the Company, and we're offering to protect the memory of the heroes and the Great Victory. I hope that your esteemed colleagues, to your support and understanding that our common story, this is the life and fate of our grandparents, this is a great feat that they have done in order for us to live in peace and peace today. I hope we can stop the abuse and the abuse that we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u25	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u26	and the monuments that our people have established, the great winner, and I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u27	Viacheslav Kirilenko, please, with regard to your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u28	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear voters, dear colleagues, I propose to take criminal responsibility for the abuse of the graves of fighters for the national liberation of Ukraine, the victims of political repression and the victims of the genocide of the 32nd, 33rd years. There is no such responsibility now, and the facts of the abuse of their graves are increasing. Here are just a few of them, the last in a few years. May 2007: The monument to the memory of the heroes of Kruth in the Chernigiv region was demolished. September 2007: Vandals set fire to a monument, once again, to the heroes of Kruth in the Chernigiv region. September 2009: An unknown monument was desecrated by Taras Bulby Borovitz in the city of Brezne in the Plains. July 2009: On the night of July 15, at Babin Jar Memorial, an unknown mark was burned by the victims of the U.N. anti - Nazi underground. December 2009: An act of vandalism was committed in Lviv concerning the UPA soldier's grave. February 2010: Vandals burned the memory of UN members buried in Baba's Yar, which is already there. April 2010: The Vandals in Bukovin broke a memorial sign in honor of the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army. September 2010: An unknown monument was destroyed by the victims of famine in the Lochvika region of Poltava. February 2011: A monument to freedom fighters destroyed in the city of Krivi Rig of Dnipropetrovsk. And last but not least, on January 26 of this year, the city of Kharkiv was destroyed by a relief on the monument of Les Kurbas. So this is a trend that someone's controlling, manipulating, and it's because of impunity, because there's no relevant article in the Criminal Code. That's why I'm making this proposal: by 297th article, to bring the right standard to those who will do this, to do this abuse by five years of being deprived of the will to give. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u29	The committee is headed by the committee’s committee on law enforcement, George Prokopchuk. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! In fact, the purpose of the two bills was to settle another cuneiform article of the Criminal Code. The committee considered both bills. Everyone said that any act of vandalism, that in relation to Soviet liberators, that in relation to UN-OPA and other liberating heroes, is unacceptable. At the same time, these proposals, which were actually already settled. Because the current article 297 of the Criminal Code identifies both brotherly burials and the grave of an unknown soldier and other burials. That is, those who are to be protected by law. Thus, both the bill and the other, as no specific subject of criminal responsibility was identified, were recommended that the authors return to work. The Special Committee proposes a return to work because it is necessary to specify directly the subject of criminal responsibility. So please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u31	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, in our country’s history there are dates, events, and names that will always be remembered. But they changed the course of events, affecting not only individuals but also entire nations. This is the case with the Great Homeland War and the heroic feat of our people at this bitter, painful time. Predicting what the opposition will say now, in which I will repeat myself. In spite of one’s personal thoughts and ideas, history cannot be rewritten, hidden, or erased from the memory of the entire nation, years of heroism and devotion to the Fatherland. I would like to remind you, too, that the honourable colleagues of the opposition, to the feat of the Soviet people, are generally recognized. And the memory of Soviet liberation soldiers is respected not only in Ukraine, but also in many countries of the world, grateful for the victory against fascism. I thank the author for this bill, and I will personally support it, and so will our faction. [[8150]] However, with regard to the bill on increased criminal responsibility, with regard to another bill, the opposition representative, the author, inter alia, has the right to have a personal opinion on these events. [[8150-1]] But what I don't understand is that it gives me reason to believe that the abuse of the graves of the category of persons you have identified, namely, those involved in the national-liberal struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine, victims of repression and totalitarian regime, victims of 1932 and 1933, deserves more severe punishment than the abuse of the grave of a person who died, for example, by participating in other hostilities: in world wars, in Afghanistan, etc. It is far from understandable who is asked to refer to these categories of persons, who or how they are to be identified by a person or not of a category. And this bill 8150-1 I propose to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u33	Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction, please. Next is Valérie Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u34	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization Council Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to start my speech with a huge correspondence received by the Ukrainian Veterans' Council, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons on this issue. I want to say that every third letter concerns not only the level of material support for war veterans, but not only the representatives of this golden generation, but also this problem, the problem of abuse of the great feat of the Soviet people and, in particular, the abuse of monuments. I am absolutely convinced that the adoption of this document is on time today. First of all, because we've recently celebrated the 65th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism. Last year is the year of the 70th anniversary of the Great Homeland War. And that's why at least on the slope of that category of people, and I mean war veterans, war veterans, we have to decide. And that's why I want to say that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will absolutely unanimously support this bill. And the veterans will be grateful to the drafters for solving this problem. As for the second bill, so to speak, alternative. Dear colleagues, we, well, at least the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support this document. And it urges Parliamentary colleagues not to do that. Because this is how we try to reconcile the person who freed the country from fascism and not only Ukraine, but also Europe and the world of those who shot them in the back, usually. Moreover, over the past five years we have witnessed with you that even those monuments that were built by liberator soldiers have tried to change the tables, change their purpose. Therefore, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support the Bill of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u35	Microphone, please. All right, let's get
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u36	Thank you. And I urge my colleagues not to support others, i.e. Mr. Kirilenko's alternative project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u37	Thank you. Valerius Kamchatny, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u38	I'm asking you to give the floor to my colleague Taras Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u39	Taras Cranville. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u40	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! We've heard a lot of nice, nice, beautiful words. But let's go back specifically to the bill. First. Do you know that the real problem is the Criminal Code. Moreover, it was in this case that, literally a month ago, three people were sentenced to three years ’ imprisonment. In particular, think of such actions regarding the Memorial of Fame in Kiev. It's all settled. What does the bill do? He brings some uncertainties. First. It narrows down the application of this law by depriving the same protection, for example, internationalist soldiers, guerrillas, victims of Nazi concentration camps. Did you think that when this article was applied, these people would automatically come out and get confused? Can an active basic article then be applied to them too? They didn't think so, I'm sure. Have you thought about what "memory abuse" means? If I question the actions of some Soviet generals, which resulted in some of the heroes of the Soviet soldiers being captured and tortured in the fascist concentration camps, his free will. And there were a lot of these gimmicks. If we question the ingenuity of the same NKVD members who created the fences during the war, they were shot in the back of Soviet soldiers, just as they were with the Soviet symbolism they were. Is this going to be a memory abuse? Then they died, too. Have you thought about the consequences of these articles? So I urge you not to vote for it. It's settled perfectly in the law. Someone wants to fight in the memory of Soviet soldiers. But the greatest abuse that you have done with their fate today, with their beggarly existence, as they live today, is no greater abuse. It's a matter of judgment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u41	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u42	..to pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u43	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Then Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u44	Honorable National MPs today, the Human Rights Commissioner, recalled an example from the Carpathians regarding the laborer’s monument. I'd like to say how this is being resolved in Zakarpat with regard to this problem. You know, the Zacarpathians had to fight in different armies both in Soviet, both Hungarian and Czechoslovakian, and partly in UPA. And how does this problem be solved? For example, if you come to my village today, the village of Kolochava, you will see an obelisk called a memorial of reconciliation in the center of the village. So here are the names of all the villagers who died in all the armies because they are victims of historical events both in Soviet and Czechoslovakian and Hungarian. True, on various ceilings, but on one pedestal. And come on May 9, you'll see that there are those single veterans who are still alive, all the armies. And they don't say who wins, they tell young people what a terrible word war is and what it brings. If you want, you'll see the orderly tomb of Lieutenant KDB Prokopenka and next to the UPA soldiers' museum of the Steier Group. Please, and this is an example. You can see the orderly graves of Hungarian gendarmes, the Czech gendarmes of the 1930s. Of course, the names of those villagers who died in the gulag camps are drawn. Of course, all those who died in the Afghan War are honored, of course. There was a large Jewish community in the village, almost 500 Jewish inhabitants were destroyed in German camps. They also have a ladder in shape. And all their names were taken. If you want, even the names of the revolutionaries you'll find, which are also the graves arranged. But even those soldiers who died for some reason, our Ukrainians, for Caesar in the Austrian-Hungarian army, you'll see, too. I think that this is a vivid example of how we should honor the memory of all those who, Ukrainians, have fallen victim to some historical event or other. The authors ’ suggestions are correct in these bills. But for as long as I could tell.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u46	If you take the conclusion of the Science and Technology Department, that's the right thing to do. But it is not possible to implement them into criminal law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u47	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u48	Dear fellow national MPs! First of all, I want to say that I agree with the moral and ethical aspect contained in the two bills. Indeed, abuse of memory should not occur in Ukrainian society. But there are a number of questions. First. What Is Abuse of Memory? Where is the definition? What is it? If a glutton sitting next to a Vatutin monument is near the Supreme Council, is it a memory abuse or not? Lawyers can treat things differently. The other one. What, then, does Comrade Simonenko offer for abusing memory? Think of it, citizens and deputies! Up to 12 years of imprisonment! What are you, a fool or something? And the third moment, and the third moment. Why such selectiveness? Why do you say that there can be no abuse of the memory of the warlords? 100 percent we agree with that. What about desecrating other people's graves, not frontalists? Those who fought, those on the labour front, are they allowed, Comrade Simonenko? But we need to have a measure of our Bolshevik hatred.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u49	Dear National Deputies! Dear National Deputies! The discussion is over. Because the name of the national deputy Simonek was called, and he has the right to a replica. Peter Simonenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u50	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Well, I've once found out that the speaker just didn't read the suggestions I made. And it clearly says, "It's punishable by a three-to-five-year limit of will." And there's no 12 and there's nothing like that. So let's say we're dealing with populism here, as far as how he appreciates these events. But I am addressing everyone who thinks today really about the fate of future generations of our Ukrainians. First of all, we have to raise them on models of feat, heroic patriotic upbringing, not betrayal of the Ukrainian people. And those who spoke today, let's say, about another so-called alternative bill, I want to ask you once again, answer, "On whose side did they fight when they got guns from Germans, form from Germans, fight on the side of Germans, were Special Agents and so on?" What are we talking about today?Oh, my God! So, dear colleagues, I am addressing the conscious citizens of Ukraine, who are now entrusted with the mandate of the People's Deputy. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u51	Dear National Deputies! Well, please! () [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you, we will now vote on the question, and then on. and then you'll say what you think about a vote. Well, we'll find some compromise. Well, please! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to calm down! Let's think clearly with you, here's all the sober people. It is a savagery that we make a decision about how we have such savagery as the abuse of graves! This is evidence of the level of our culture and of our political particularity! That's the first one. Second, respectable colleagues! I think it is the sacred duty of everyone to care for the graves in general. And I think each of us can see the level of culture in every inhabited area, seeing what's going on in the cemetery. And we don't have a discrepancy here, if we're to speak honestly when the term "national-liberal competition" is used, I mean this liberating war led by Bogdan Hmielnick. Who's against it? None. But we're so, dear colleagues, we've come to an end, now we're divorcing each other. Since we, your honorary colleagues, have noted that any abuse of any grave is a crime, we can now isolate a problem, and we have it, and we should have taken the principle position when we grilled an unknown soldier's egg on the Mogila, and we had defenders in this room, they said it was the right thing to do. And it's obviously all going to lead to our opposition. So I'd like to ask, dear fellows, let's not upset our society on these issues. And in accordance with the Rules, despite the fact that the Committee proposes to return draft laws to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work, and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority generally believes that it is necessary to reject the bill, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the bill (registration No. 8150).
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u52	What are you suggesting to me that you scream? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Your Honor, I ask you, Volodymyr Mikolayovich, I think, because in accordance with the Rules I am obliged to announce the decision of the committee, the decision of the committee and the scientific and scientific management negative, but in accordance with the Rules I am obliged to put to the vote the first proposal for acceptance as a basis. And I'm doing the right thing, and I want to tell you my point, but my function is to conduct the meetings of the Supreme Council. So once again, I tell you that according to the Rules, I place the bills in turn, first under Simonek's authority, then Viacheslav Kirilenka, for adoption as a basis. That is to say, the first proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the increase of criminal responsibility for the abuse of the memory of Soviet liberators]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:47:28]] For 224 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the voting proposal for acceptance as the basis of the project. Please, by the factions. Region Party – 183, "BUT – "Patkaščina" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 3, communists – 25, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-fractional – 13. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing criminal responsibility for the abuse of the graves of participants in the struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine, victims of repression and genocide]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:48:28]] For-92 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for air pollution by combustion products]] [[Registration number 8502]] Dear colleagues, if you come back now, there will be a riot. Let's go back, one minute, but let's vote for both of them as a basis. Come on, then let them think. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! I'm asking you, Your Honor, the Supreme Council is not a pre-election headquarters. Let's work. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on responsibility for air pollution by combustion products]] [[Registration number 8502]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Mishchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I believe that let us consider this bill, and then you will discuss it, because it's a very emotional bill that was before, it concerns the dead. And what I want to tell you is it concerns the living. So let us listen to what is happening to the living.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u54	Wait a minute! I am voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please, as the committee suggests. [[16:50:25]] For 227 Decision taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's calm down this part of the hall, come on, let's go back! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Sergey Grigorovitch, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, what is the point of this bill. I think ordinary people will understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u56	To make this law sound, it takes silence. So I'll finish when the silence is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u57	Dear National Deputies! Sergei Grigorovitch! Wait a minute! Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u58	Put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u59	Dear National Deputies! Well, please don't yell, I can hear you. Ladies and gentlemen, don't shout. Please don't shout. The thing is, you understand perfectly, dear colleagues, well, please, I'm asking you. Well, is there any logic that the deputies here have been talking about? If the abuse of the grave is committed by a man who was in Afghanistan, it's now hers. She's out if you are, right? Is she out then? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, it also turns out she's out, there's no articles. They took off one when they were standing. The question is that any abuse of the grave is punished in accordance with the Criminal Code. [[B in m in s a l in]] What else do you want? [[B in m in s a l in]] What else do you want, I don't understand. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u60	Put to the vote, put to the vote, return to consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u61	Please, please. It's just that if the law isn't being implemented, it's another matter that the law isn't being implemented. Yes, if the law is not being implemented, another law must be passed. Well, who's to go back to voting on these bills? Please identify yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u62	For both of us, I said "legislatives" to get the bill back.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u63	Identify yourself, please. [[16:53:45]] For 210 Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Sergei Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please listen to me, perhaps less emotionally than just passion, but a very important bill. That is how everyone will understand the essence of the bill, but it will be taken closer to the heart by those people, whether they or their close relatives are suffering from asthma or allergic diseases. What Is Being Done Today? And what happens is that when spring and autumn comes, mass air pollution, that is, the smoke of the air, goes in the country. It seems that someone is dropping bombs on the country to kill the population. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about citizens turning to me, and I'm going to give you one example: a child who lives in one of Ukraine's villages, a neighbor burns leaves all the time, what's on the ground. Thus, parents constantly call for immediate help because this child is suffocating, unable to walk in the yard, unable to visit a facility, because at this time someone burns massively, in villages, primarily leaves and other products. I mean, there's a responsibility to this day, no one's calling it off, this responsibility, but at least one protocol on this? No protocol has been drawn up because the internal affairs authorities answer me: there are no such offences. But you can see for yourself whether you are being burned by these. These are leaves and other products. They're burning. Therefore, we must protect those who die from their illness.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u65	Microphone. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u66	So what I want to do today is, first of all, the responsibility of those people who do these things is wrong, and second of all, to extend the circle of people who make up protocols in the villages, because today only the environmental inspectors of the area, and no one else. Because neither the district inspector nor the volunteer fire department make up these protocols. So please vote in the first reading. You can always work everything out. But this is a problem for the population of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u67	Yes, the co-rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on the law enforcement of Igor Savchenko's activities. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u68	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a draft Ukrainian law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for air pollution by combustion products]] [[Registration number 8502]] During the discussion of the bill, a number of critical comments were made on the committee. These observations are of a vital nature. In particular, it was pointed out that the author's proposal to criminalize the activities outlined in the bill was unfounded. These activities do not have an elevated degree and nature of social danger. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The committee agrees with that conclusion. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading review, return the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the speech on this bill. Andrey Pavlovski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u70	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko is "The Fatherland". Please hand over to the People's Deputy the Jury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u71	Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u72	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear colleagues, it's really a really sharp question, when absolutely without any, let's say, some regulatory moments, when we're going on a roadway and we don't see anything at all, because they're burning when the flora, fauna and everything else is dying when the asthmatics are suffocating, this bill is really, really sharp and it needs to be supported. Here, I think we need to be completely united and solidarity, because this applies to everyone, from Lviv to Donbas, from Crimea to Chernigov. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u73	Yes, Gryvkovski insists on the performance? No, it's not. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u74	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, I would simply like to prove the point of this bill. Today, article 241 of the Criminal Code regulates the issue of air pollution associated with the productive activity of the instigator. With this novel, which our colleagues have brought into the session room, we are expanding the list of people who are subject to this article to anyone, any private person: Grandma, Grandpa, a child who burns a little bone in her garden. Dear colleagues! They said only one thing: If we are leading the situation to absurdity and want to regulate the burning of the leaves in our garden, let's talk and then let's do a camp in Ukraine, we'll say the following. I even wrote to myself, not to burn, not to paint, not to dig, not to burn, not to sing, not to fly, not to breathe, not to live. Maybe we should put an end to this! The MP's Reform for the Future will not support such nonsense. We think it's just bullying the Parliamentary Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u75	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u76	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Over a year ago, I passed a similar bill, which was triggered by those terrible cases of landings, forests that were destroyed, fields, plants left behind, when the animal world was lost, when ecosystems were causing enormous damage. And I am grateful now to National Deputy Sergio Mishchenko for having returned to this subject and would like to support this bill. What's more, honourable national MPs, you can see that the Germans are selling gas much cheaper than we are. So let's do this one right now, we're going to take this one and press it and then burn it. Because we know that. This time. The other one. Let us find common sense in what is proposed. It's absolutely right, isn't it? Where do you find an environmental inspector from the area? Who's coming? They don't have the money for that. Why not give rural heads, rural deputies, circuit councils? And I assure you that there will be no fire. Well, here I'll tell you that there are changes to the Criminal Code. And despite the fact that I always take it with pain when they propose changes to the serious document, which is the Criminal Code, I think you can accept it. Instead, I would like to point out that there was almost a conflict that might have taken place here. It was made up of empty spaces, distinguished national deputies. Because one of the project's authors suggested in a previous project that "punishment for memory abuse" think about it, not "over the grave" as provided for in article 297, but "over memory". Do you understand what memory is, what category?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u77	Yes, thank you. All of it. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I recall the committee’s conclusion: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration: The bill should be returned to pre-work. At the same time, according to the regulation, the first is the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please be sure. [[17:04:13]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the extension of the term of military service to candidates and doctors of science]] [[Registration number 9229]] The author suggests that we consider the matter using a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:04:52]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Andry Pinchuk. The Coroner is the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of Anatoly Gritsenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u78	The honourable chairman, the distinguished national deputies, unfortunately, today's career is not attracted to young specialists, but rather to science and technology institutions that have a significant shortage of young people. The current provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service do not promote the interest of young people in scientific activities. Yes, according to article 17 of this law, the suspension of a term - service application is granted at the time of a postgraduate or doctoral education, but it is not granted after the completion and receipt of a scientific degree. At present, only scientists working at the National Academy of Sciences have the right to stay away from the appeal. But how do worse young scientists who teach at universities work at construction offices and so forth? The military recruitment of talented young scientists who have been able to protect candidates or doctors under the age of 25 is an irrational use of the nation’s human and intellectual resources. The benefits of the work of young scientists in the field of specialty will far outweigh their presence in the armed forces. In addition, the need to serve as a regular military service for some Ukrainian young scientists is a reason for immigration from Ukraine and for working abroad in a special capacity. The bill provides for postponement of a term service application to persons who have a degree in science and who work in special positions for the entire period of their work in this specialty. The bill is in agreement with the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Professional Committee also supported the adoption of the law. Please uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u79	Yes. Thank you, too. Head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Anatoly Gritsenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The bill is simple. And the request, if it's accepted, will be accepted immediately as a whole. Our committee voted unanimously for him. There's really nothing to discuss here. In fact, there are gifted youths who receive a high degree of academicism within the age of recruitment. In fact, there are not many of them — three of them have turned out to be. But even for these three, it was necessary to pass such a law so that it would not continue to be proper for such individuals to be called into the full - time service. Please support, if possible, immediately in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u81	Whoever insists on discussing this bill, please sign up for the speech. Names of the national MPs, please. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! I fully support the idea of a bill to improve the use by the State of human and intellectual resources, to increase the prestige of scientific activity. And Ukraine is traditionally considered a country with a strong scientific potential. However, in recent times it has been possible to talk about the so - called aging of this potential, which has to do with lowering young people’s interest in scientific work. And I think one of the main reasons for this negative trend is that it's not enough to stimulate and motivate the professional activities of young scientists. I believe that the proposed legislative norm can not only serve as a good incentive and professional guide for young people, but also give them the opportunity to devote their young years, which are sufficiently productive in professional terms, science development and the implementation of their scientific development. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u83	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. Then Sergei Pavlovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, our constituents! It seems to me that every candidate for the Presidents, every candidate in the national parliament as the main figure, puts out what it takes to have a professional army in Ukraine. Because, you see, in the world mostly these armies are like this, they're mobile, they're very well-armed and all that. But immediately after the election, all of this is forgotten. And today we usually have colossal problems with our Ukrainian army. It's now, I think, it's just being confronted by law enforcement, a militia that's literally already there, which means it's being budgeted there. And the army barely owns it: no weapons, no martial arts. And because of that, of course, it is a waste of our time today to call on our army to serve those people today who can benefit society much more in another area of their work. Because I think in this case our colleague Grizzenko. Although there are not many, he called three, I think there may be a little more. Because today, young people mature much earlier, and really at the age of recruitment, people can if they're not a doctor of science, and they need to be used to make the state stronger, not to march there, and to clean up the appetites on the pay. The Yulia Timoshenko Block supports this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u85	Sergei Pavlovenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u86	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The position of the faction of the National Party will be expressed by Oleg Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u87	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u88	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I was, frankly, surprised by this statistic. It turns out that there are only three persons who fall under the law. That means we have three people within the age of conscription who are candidates and doctors of science. It's shameful, frankly. Albert Einstein seems to have said that all of his discoveries were done by 30 years of age, and all that scientists do is interpret and use that money, that creativity that is at a young age. So I think it's absolutely right that there should not be three of them, so that they don't immigrate, that they knew that their work here would be appreciated. And in this context, it's in the law, I think we should thank the author of the initiative, there's a right norm that they should not only be candidates or doctors of science, but they should also work in the field that they were defending themselves for. So these are random people -- people who are really proving that protecting their dissertation, or their doctoral or doctoral dissertation, has given them the opportunity to work in appropriate positions. We need to support this bill. I agree that it can be supported in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u89	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u90	Vladimir Karpuk. If you analyze the characteristics, if you give people who are enlisted in the military, our army has never been as labor-rural as it is today, because there is no scientist or son of high-ranking parents. And in general, if you look at it, I think you have to pay for the dissertation now for a few orders higher than that, which is a little bit longer than the army. That's why you can adopt this law, you can adopt it as a whole, but you can add that, apart from the candidates and doctors of science, there are professors, members of the numerous academies that are now being multiplied, and also the national deputies, because there is already such a term, as well, how much familyality is developing, which can be added to the national MPs. [[with two f's]] And then I shall vote in two hands for the adoption of this very important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u91	Catherine Samuel, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u92	Thank you for your word. I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will necessarily vote in favour of the bill, but I emphasize that we have only 5 people up to 35 years of age young scientists -- this is actually a disaster for our country. It was said that it would enhance the prestige of scientific work. Unfortunately, failure to appeal to the Ukrainian Armed Forces will increase the prestige of scientific work. A decent salary; prizes that, by the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives to young scientists; scholarships that, by the way, the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives young scientists and the prestige of scientific work show that only 70 percent of the government's request is met by the budget. So by voting in favour of this bill, I would like to say that it does not define prestige, it is defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u93	Microphone, please. Microphone. Do you have everyone?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u94	. It is defined both by housing and by many other social issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u95	Thank you. Honorable National MPs, discussion of the matter. Please, who? Now, one minute. Taras Cranville, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Our MP faction will vote in favour of this bill and we call for it to be voted on as a whole, there's nothing to refer to second reading. And I want to point out that science is generally getting smaller. It is simply that, unfortunately, there are no normal conditions for promoting young, capable, young, young scientists today in Ukraine. In fact, I had to meet myself in the background of 3 or 5 people who say that there are candidates in Ukraine, doctors of science at the age of invitation, at least 3 people who, having Ukrainian citizenship, were expelled from that state, lived, worked in other states, and had already protected PhDs, doctoral dissertations at the age of invitation. I very much hope that we will make it possible for our other legislative initiatives to keep these people in the Ukrainian state, to protect the dissertation and to create science here. And these people are potentially much more, so this law is relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u97	Alexander Kuzmuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is surprising that in such a matter some so-called democratic MPs try to exploit and corrupt their national army once again. In fact, the drafter of the bill and our committee considered this issue for a noble purpose, not to save the Armed Forces, not to call on 3-5 people, but to support national science and national science. Yes, the Ukrainian Armed Forces have enough of their doctors of science and science candidates. And thank God that science is developing, and every year in the Armed Forces of Ukraine scientists are becoming more and more. They're not lazy, and they're senior lieutenants, and they're captains 24-25 years old who are candidates for technical sciences and candidates for military science. And it's not clogged yet, and it's going to develop.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u99	Microphone. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u100	To uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[concerning the extension of the term of military service to candidates and doctors of science]] [[Registration number 9229]] Please vote. [[17:17:48]] For 303 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, in the process of speaking, there was a proposal for the adoption of this bill as a matter of law. Is there a denial? The committee doesn't mind? Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt the draft law as a law, namely, to amend article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. [[concerning the extension of the term of military service to candidates and doctors of science]] [[Registration number 9229]] Please vote. [[17:18:41]] For 308. The law is passed. The draft Act amending the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine is submitted for consideration. [[on commercial concession contracts]] [[Registration number 8515]] The author and the committee offer. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:19:18]] For 226 Decision taken. Head of Legal Policy Committee Vladislav Zabarski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u102	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 18.10.2011, the Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Civil and Economic Code, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP, Tolstenko. [[on commercial concession contracts]] [[Registration number 8515]] According to the content of the law’s legislative initiative, the purpose of the law is to regulate the issue of the State registration of a commercial concession contract, the determination of legal consequences, the existence of a commercial concession contract of conditions that limit the right of the parties. In particular, the bill provides for the specificization of the functions of the State in the registration of commercial concession contracts. The project proposes that the registration of commercial concession contracts be placed on the Ukrainian State Intellectual Property Service, which will contribute to the development of a contractual commitment institution and in general corresponds to the concept of the Civil Code of Ukraine. The project also proposes a new edition of article 1122 of the Civil Code, which separates guarantees of the value of commercial concession contracts. [[No. 8515]] The adoption of the proposed amendments to article 1122 of the Civil Code will ensure that the parties comply with commercial concession contracts, legislative requirements, and enforcement. Committee members note that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, in its conclusion, supported the bill's legislative proposal. During the consideration of the draft, the committee agreed with the author’s view on the need to improve the legal regulation of the issue of commercial concession. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption in the first reading and on the basis of the draft Act of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Civil and Master Code, No. 8515, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Tolstenko. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this matter. Yes, Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? Then Shishkina, the "BUT" faction is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, at first glance, the bill seems to be not bad, it is small, compact, and contains only three articles, mainly, to be incorporated into two codes. But it's essentially editorial, it's a bill. That is, there is no real change to the regulation of the conclusion of commercial concession contracts. And he's just relying on the state to register commercial concession contracts. So these contracts are being implemented by the central executive body in the field of the implementation of state intellectual property policy. In fact, some problems in intellectual property that could be solved, particularly in the area of commercial concession contracts, the bill does not solve. I say again, it's basically editorial. Therefore, there is no urgent need to vote on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, no one is insisting on the performance anymore.? No, it's not. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine. [[on commercial concession contracts]] [[Registration number 8515]] Please vote. [[17:23:35]] For 259. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending articles 361 and 362 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on grounds for review of decisions or judicial decisions]] Rapporteur – Ukrainian National Deputy Leonid Alexiyovich Isaev and co-rapporteur – Deputy Head of the Justice Committee Valeriy Anatoliyovich Bondik. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'll bet you a vote. Carmazin will be the reporter, the first deputy head of the committee. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:24:24]] For 222 Decision taken. Please, Leonid Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u106	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The legal system in the country needs to be improved, as our president regularly tells us. Again today, the importance of resolving this issue was emphasized. In every newspaper, there is an urgent need to do all this work as well. The proposed draft law is an attempt to amend articles 361, 362 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. The main purpose of the bill is to ensure the right of citizens to review a decision or to pass a court decision in connection with the newly discovered circumstances in the event of a verdict by a court that has gained legal power, the crimes of judges, parties, others who have participated in a case that has led to the approval or illegal or unreasonable decision. The implementation of the bill after its adoption does not require amendments to other laws of Ukraine. The implementation of the bill in its practical application after its adoption does not require validity, does not affect the spending and income of the State budget. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments in these articles ensures the realization of citizens’ rights to a judicial decision. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u107	Yes, thank you, Leonidas Alexiovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u108	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on 5 October 2011 considered the draft Law of Ukraine amending articles 361 and 362 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, submitted by the People's Deputy of Ukraine to Isaiah, and came to the next. [[on grounds for review of decisions or judicial decisions]] The purpose of the bill is to ensure the right of citizens to review a decision or to pass a court decision in connection with the newly discovered circumstances in the event of a verdict by a court that has gained legal power, criminality in a court of justice, the parties of other persons who have participated in a case that has led to the approval of an illegal or unfounded decision. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, expressing their comments, believe that the draft law can be adopted as a basis. In doing so, the General Scientific Office noted that in paragraph 2 of part one project should be taken into account that the relevant changes should be made to paragraph 2 of part two of article 362 of the Ukrainian CDC, not to 361, as wrongly stated in the text. After examining the proposed amendments, the committee notes that article 361, part 2, paragraph 2, already provides for such grounds as false testimony by a witness, the knowingly false conclusion of an expert and others. The Committee therefore believes that the proposed amendments can only apply to the established verdict of the judge, not to the crime that led to the adoption of an illegal or unfounded decision, with a view to ensuring the harmonization and comprehensive settlement of all procedural codes. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending articles 361 and 362 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, introduced by the Ukrainian National MP Isaiah L.O. [[on grounds for review or acquittal]] Thank you. Please support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the bill. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. And he's also going to be speaking after Shustik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u110	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Our parliamentary group has considered this bill and we have come to the conclusion that it really needs its support. There are warnings. I'm not going to repeat them anymore, because they were just presented in a speech by the committee. We also took note of them. But this is all part of the second reading. That is why we need to take it as a basis. But in order to understand the importance and need of this bill, let us take a very specific example from our recent history. He was recently convicted by all known Christmas Judge Zvaric. He did a number of things that clearly show that there were bribes on these matters, that things were done completely unfairly, that sentences were bought and so forth. These are business-related serious matters, where large amounts of money go down, which have bankrupted certain companies, certain firms, led to poverty, and so forth. Today, Boiler is already in prison. But people do not have the opportunity to realize their right to restore justice. Because, unfortunately, our legislation does not provide for the possibility that a judge, a particular judge, who committed a crime in the course of this case, does not reinstate his responsibility to humans after his conviction and court. And that's why this law really is the law of justice. It's small, it's small. He needs a second reading of minor adjustments, but this is one of those bills that improve our legal and legislative field. So our MPs are going to vote for him in the first reading, and the zigzag is going to cheer the whole room up to the same thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u111	Olena Shustik, BUT faction, Fatherland. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u112	Olena Shustik, Faction of the Fatherland. I signed up against it, but I'm going to support this bill just as much as our faction. This is one of the few bills that are currently relevant to the reform of the judicial system, and it fills the gap that exists today in the Civil Procedure Code. Moreover, he gives victims of criminal judges whose decisions have taken property, deprived them of their rights, now not to remain in a broken trough and legally defend their rights. So I also urge the first reading room to support this bill and to correct some of the gaps it contains on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our consideration of the bill. I would like to remind you that the committee is offering to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert administration has also made a positive conclusion on this bill. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending articles 361 and 362 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on grounds for review of decisions or judicial decisions]] [[Registration number 8411]] Please vote. [[17:32:54]] For 314 Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 99 of the Code of Administrative Justice. [[on the terms of the complaint of legal acts]] [[Registration number 8501]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote on this proposal. [[17:33:28]] For 224 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Odarchenko. And the co-reporter is Dmitri Mikitovich Pritika, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, the system of administrative justice has been called upon to ensure that citizens are able to challenge illegal decisions, actions, or omissions of authorities and local self - government. According to Ukrainian legislation, anyone can charge a sublegal act that is contrary to the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine. Having given the opportunity to challenge these acts to citizens and removing the issue from the exclusive power of prosecutors, Ukraine has taken a significant step in the creation of the rule of law. However, the practice of applying the Code of Administrative Justice has shown that in some cases there are unjustified restrictions on the possibility of bringing a case before a court. Article 99 of the Code sets a time limit for referring to a court, a period of time. A decision can only be challenged within six months of the date of its publication. There's a whole series of illegal legislation that goes against the law. That is, if no one has complained about such an act within six months, it will work, even if there is an understanding of its harmfulness to the community. There are vast amounts of acts that were adopted before the adoption of the 1996 Constitution and the construction of administrative justice. And these acts, regardless of their contradiction to legislation, are still in force. Their charges against the court are impossible because the courts leave such charges uncontested by referring to the omission of time limits. By my bill, I propose that, in the charge of valid legal acts, the terms of reference to the court do not work. Since a violation of a citizen’s rights is a permanent one, the term essentially begins its countdown at the beginning of the day. I agree with the recommendations of the committee and the scientific and expert board on the need for a replacement in the text of the bill of the words "received limitation for a term of reference to the court." Indeed, that is more correct in terms of legal terminology.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u115	Yeah, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u116	Colleagues, since the bill consists of one line, I would like to adopt the law immediately in general by making the terminology more precise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u117	Thank you. Dmitry Mikitovich Pritica, please, regarding the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u118	Dear National Deputies! On October 5, 2011, the Committee on Justice considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 99 of the Code of Administrative Justice, submitted by National Deputy Yuri Odarchenko. [[on the terms of the complaint of legal acts]] The draft law is designed to ensure that existing legislation can be invoked. To this end, it is proposed that Article 99 of the Code of Administrative Justice should be supplemented by a norm according to which the concept of statute of limitations would not be extended to cases of charges of valid legal acts. Thus, a person whose interests relate to the legal and regulatory acts will be able to file an appropriate action at any time. The implementation of the bill will contribute to the preservation of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine and to the development of civil society in the country. At the same time, the committee notes that the disadvantage of the proposed project is that if it is adopted, it will be possible to have timely complaints about certain decisions made by the authorities. This will mean that appropriate administrative actions may be filed five, 10 or more years after a person has learned of a violation of his or her right. This would be contrary to the principle of the stability of existing legal relations, the necessity of which and the existence of periods of appeal to the administrative court, and the length of the statute of limitations in civil and commercial jurisdiction. After considering the bill, the committee has come to the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 99 of the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine and to adopt it on first reading as a basis. [[on the terms of the complaint of legal acts]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u119	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Our parliamentary group, after considering this bill at its meeting, has concluded that it is legal and appropriate, and also renews, increases the level of general justice in our legal system. Let's think about it. The person who is just about to reach adulthood, who is now gaining the opportunity of his legal personality, sets up, discovers that it is now 10-20, and that the individual legal acts have been in force for 30-40 years, which are irrelevant, non-modern and which directly obstructs his rights. No right to intervene in this matter, according to today's situation, it has nothing to do with what's absurd, because in fact it's not the case that acts come to human beings, but a person comes to act, a person who comes to age by this time, and now it's the beginning of these acts. How can we guarantee her right? Obviously, this law opens up the possibility. Let's look at other situations. Our legislative field is changing. Sometimes, unfortunately, in places in local authorities, the relevant authorities do not always carry out the final provisions of the laws that we adopt in due time, where it is determined that the Cabinet of Ministers, other authorities, should bring their legislative acts into line with the newly adopted law. Man reveals this fact -- the fact that some legislation does not correspond to the legislation of an already active Ukrainian state. What can you do about it? As it is not, waiting for the intervention of the Supreme Council, Kabmin, we only increase bureaucracy, we increase correspondence. A person may appeal to a court for a minor act that has already lost its relevance or legal validity. We believe that this is absolutely enough to vote in the first reading for the project or, taking into account the committee's proposals and correcting those changes, to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u121	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u122	Please pass the word to Oleni Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u123	Helen Shustik. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u124	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Our faction will certainly support the bill of our colleague Yuri Odarchenk. Bills like that, I'd say it's like a white band in procedural safeguards for the protection of citizens. It is envisaged not to apply the term of the time limit for the prosecution of valid legal acts, and this will significantly enhance the ability of people to protect their rights. I recall that the so-called judicial reform has reduced the term of appeal to the Administration to 6 months, and this has substantially narrowed the procedural rights of applicants and the possibility of protecting citizens, and this is, by the way, a gross violation of article 22 of the Constitution. The same six-month term is now being applied for the prosecution of legal acts. Thus, if a person has not been accused of an act of authority that violates his rights for six months, he loses the possibility of such an accusation. The position of the administrative judiciary, which is now a complete violation of the basic purpose of this code, is to protect people from the authorities of the State, not the other way around. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u125	Excuse me, Eugene Kzarykov, Communist faction. Then there will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u126	Please give the floor to Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u127	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u128	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Our faction will support this bill, and it really makes a lot of sense. We understand that today the right of citizens to appeal to the court is severely limited by administrative acts. There is a time limit called statute of limitations, but we do well to note that a person is experiencing a violation of his or her rights when his or her question touches on it. Indeed, there are conflicts in life where a person faces a particular problem, and it turns out that the deadline has expired and he cannot challenge the operation of a legal act that actually violates his specific civil rights. Therefore, I believe that it is quite right that this barrier is being removed so that a person can, at a time when he is personally convinced that his rights are being violated by some legal act, may be brought before him in administrative proceedings. Therefore, our faction supports this proposal, and we believe that this guarantees citizens'rights in administrative courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u129	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u130	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I will support the proposal of the People's Deputies of Odarchenk. The only thing I want to do is make a comment and make proposals to this legislative proposal. The point of this is that the bill proposes to introduce the possibility of suing valid legal acts without limiting the time limits of appeal to the administrative court. But the term "external antiquities" is used in civil law. This is chapter 19 of the Civil Code. The term "date of appeal to the administrative court" is used in administrative proceedings, as are articles 199, 100, 106, 107 of the Code of Administrative Justice. This is because, in order to preserve terminology unity, I propose in article 99 of the bill that we adhere to the term "date of appeal to an administrative court" rather than "external statute of limitations". Of course, given that the term doesn't have to exist and that's the right thing to do, I want to tell you that if a legal act is illegal, what difference does it make when it's cancelled, it still has to be cancelled, it's the first time. Secondly, nothing can be done, nothing can be done, nothing can be done, nothing can be done, nothing can be done from this rostrum, nothing can be done from this rostrum, or to the Attorney General, who has already protested this, so-called, instructional letter, which is not a legal act at all, is allowed to unblock this issue, and people, people are breaking funds, they can't complain about it. In issuing illegal acts, officials should know that there will be no charges, and they will still be abolished if they are illegal. Please support the adoption of this amendment bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u131	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to the Supreme Council to adopt a bill on the basis of which the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority is of the same opinion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 99 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice. [[on the terms of the complaint of legal acts]] [[Registration number 8501]] Please vote. [[17:46:43]] For 115 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. I am announcing a draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[strengthening the social protection of foster families and family-type children's homes]] I'm voting on the Supreme Council's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[17:47:21]] For 227 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u132	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill allows foster families and foster homes of family type, families or single persons living together and raising three or more children, including care and caregivers, to receive benefits from housing and utilities, such as gas supplies, electricity, and other services, fuel costs, and rent for use of a telephone. At the same time, in order to avoid the abuse of this benefit and to create forms of family care for orphans and children deprived of parental care for a useful purpose, it is proposed to provide the above-mentioned benefits to families who, at least one year in accordance with legislation, raise and support orphans and children deprived of parental care. The main scientific and expert office concluded on the results of the first reading: the bill should be rejected. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill on the condition that observations are taken into account. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that Ukraine's Ministry of Finance does not support the adoption of the bill. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided that the bill has an impact on the budget indicators, increases budget spending, and should the relevant law be adopted by 15 July 2012 not earlier than 1 January 2013. At the same time, I would like to draw the attention of the national deputies of Ukraine to the fact that the provision of the above-mentioned category of families for housing and utility costs of fuel, subscriber's salary and use of the flat phone is essentially consistent with the provision of these families, which has been included in the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, agreed by the Ministry of Finance. [[No. 8314]] In preparing for the second reading of the government bill, the committee decided to delete this rule, because giving the family forms of raising orphans and children deprived of parental care, the status of multi-child families would lead to a conflict between different legislative acts. In principle, however, he supported the idea of providing a benefit from the payment of community services to this category of families. The law was passed in general without this norm. At the same time, in order to strengthen the social protection of orphans, I, along with the Ukrainian National Deputy Elbrus Tadeyev, passed this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u133	Do you have it or not? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u134	The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism considered a bill at a committee meeting on October 19, 2011. The members of the committee believe that the adoption of the bill will enhance the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care, because today much of the money the State spends on maintaining this category of children is not spent on their needs, but on the payment of municipal services. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft in the first reading and to adopt it as a basis. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Yes, microphone, John Popescu, faction of the Party of Regions. Taras Cnerwell will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u136	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Fellow dignitaries, our faction will support this bill as a basis, because strengthening the social protection of foster families and the family - type children’s home in the choice offered by the reporter is a noble thing to do to protect these children and those families who have taken the burden. A faction of regions will vote in favour and ask for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u137	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u138	Please give the floor to my colleague, National Deputy of Ukraine, Volodymyr Kaplienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u139	Vladimir Kapliyenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u140	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future has always been a consistent proponent of strengthening social protection for such a category as children and orphans. Of course, we will support this initiative and consider it to be noble, we consider it modern, we believe that it should be maintained immediately and not translated for a week, two or a month, or one of the next sessions. We know that there are some flaws in this bill. But what's important here, in our view, is that, despite the fact that foster parents or children today are protected by three laws of Ukraine: the protection of childhood, the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of children, and the State aid to families with children are adequate payments of 35 percent from the level of social assistance, which ranges from 582 dollars to 700 dollars. Most of the time, however, this money is used to provide first - priority items, to buy things that a child cannot be without. And most of them go to these utilities that we talked about today. Well, that's what happened. Today the public system is not actually regulated by the state. As a result, today’s problem of keeping children in such families is a problem for the caregivers themselves. So let's help them. We will support this bill in the first reading. For the second reading, I think we should make some changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u141	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u142	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a heartache over the fact that the previous law has been broken. Most have shown that, regardless of whether there will be illegal legal acts or not, people do not have to accuse them and all. Just like the gang decision of the Constitutional Court "unconstitutional court" in a gang way, because only four decent judges have made their separate points. Everyone else has buried the social security of the people. So now. I'm calling on the leadership of the Party of Regions to review my views on that bill. Because you have to understand, about the annulment, I repeat, of late life, that bill. As for this child protection bill, which is 14.7 million dollars per budget committee, I want to ask you what is 14.7 million dollars? This is one tenth of that course that you're looking at right now when you walk down the alley over the Park Street. This helicopter is one-tenth of the entire course. There's nothing to talk about. I want to thank the great heart of Catherine Lukyanov and Tedeeva, who supported her, whether she supported her, for writing and for predicting the same kind of family that the three children had, the same benefits. We have to accept that. And I don't understand why some people felt that way without a soul. Because 14 million dollars is not the kind of question that we're talking about raising children who are deprived of motherhood, whose parents are deprived of motherhood, and then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u144	I'm done. Tedeu from the faction of the regions, and Lukyanova from the faction of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense," but this is not a political project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u145	Thank you, thank you, thank you. Kostenko, one minute, please. Microphone. Pavlov Kostenko, please, the Faction "BUT" is the "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u146	Dear colleagues! The bill that we are currently considering is designed to support the family forms of raising orphans and children deprived of parental care. A paradox has now arisen when foster families and family - type children’s homes pay the cost of community services at the expense of the State’s spending on this category of children. And today, when all political forces are united in supporting family forms of property and raising children without parents, this situation needs to be rectified as soon as possible. At the same time, it is surprising to see the position of the Ministry of Finance against the adoption of the bill when a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and agreed by the Ministry of Finance, contained the same proposal for granting benefits to foster families and family-type children in payment of municipal services. [[Registration number 8314]] Where does such incoherence and indifference come from?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u147	Do you have everyone? Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u148	The Committee, our committee of expertise on family and youth policy, sports and tourism, has consistently supported all the bills aimed at strengthening the social protection of families with children, regardless of political disputes. And our faction has always supported such bills, and I hope that the Supreme Council today will have common sense and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-02-07-m1.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main science-expert management has underestimated this project. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. [[strengthening the social protection of foster families and family-type children's homes]] [[Registration number 7606]] Please vote. [[17:58:30.]] For the 320. Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What will we continue to do? [[B in m in s a l in]] The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work on Wednesday plus issues that have not yet been completed for consideration today. Thanks for the job.
