ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:43]] There were 236 national deputies registered in the session hall. Honourable National Deputies, at the request of 157 Ukrainian National Deputies for the convening of an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion and in accordance with part two of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part two of article 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being held today. The next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the sixth call, has been announced. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Honourable National MPs, two factions -- the BUT faction -- the Fatherland faction, the "Our Ukraine -- the People's Self-Defense" faction, have filed a statement in order to be able to make a statement. The word for, who will make the statement? Jacinek, please, Arseny Jacinuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor! I'd like to start by saying that today is not the opening of an extraordinary session, but today is the day of the closing of this disgraceful Supreme Council, this anti-Ukrainen and anti-government cube that you created. This body that has ceased to represent the interests of the people. This body, which has become a pattern of corruption in today’s Ukraine. This body, who thinks he will abuse the people of Ukraine. On behalf of the united opposition, I would like to make it clear to you. We will not let you mistreat Ukraine or the Ukrainian people, and know this! Dear colleagues, the united opposition has made clear demands. First. We demand a purely personal vote on the walls of this so-called parliament. Either include a personal voting system, or make a decision in accordance with the Rules – to vote by ballots. Today, as if 236 deputies were registered with cards. But there are only 142 deputies in the hall again. Where else have 100 deputies been divided? The other one. We put forth clear demands -- no voting under the law on the destruction of Ukrainian language. You have accepted it in an unconstitutional way, there is no such act. The head of the Lithuanian Parliament has no right to sign this law. And Janukovic can't even consider it anymore because it's a crime against Ukraine and it's a crime against the Ukrainian state. This law is not adopted. This law, like 762 other laws, is unconstitutional. And we, as a united opposition, will cancel all the anti-State decisions that your regime signed by your President and that have been taken against the Ukrainian people. We have demanded that today, when ratifying, account be taken of the opposition's position on the mandatory consideration of the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union. Unfortunately, it is clear that today's Party of Regions and President Yanukovic will not go for it. That is why the opposition claims that today's meeting of the Supreme Council, as before President Yanukovic, and at the Party of Regions, is illegal and unconstitutional. Keep voting with the cards you pass to each other, because you have a credit card, that the National MP card is the same. We'll come here on October 29th and you won't be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to ask you to re-register, there are national deputies here to know the actual number of national deputies present in the session room. A registration is being carried out. Please insert your cards. [[10:07:22]] Yes, there are 259 national deputies registered in the session hall. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council, only the questions identified by the initiators, or 157 deputies, are referred to the next session. Other issues cannot be considered, I would ask for that. And yet, in accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and part of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I announce the withdrawal of the faction "BUT – "Fatherhood" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the People's Deputy Sergei Mishchenka. Honourable National Deputies, in view of the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider the first human resources issue further to hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, will be the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, as required by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, we're continuing our sessions of the extracurricular session. People's deputies, heads of factions. factions heads: The parties of the regions, the People's Party, the Communist Party, the Reforms for the Future group, have submitted a draft Order of this content: “A decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the application of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw him from office. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Rejecting the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, in satisfying his application for resignation. The other one. Confirm Lithuania's mandate as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to express its trust." I am voting on the adoption of this ruling as a whole. Please vote. Vote. [[10:09:57]] For 266 It's been decided. Let's welcome Vladimir Mikhailovich. We are considering the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced in accordance with article 48 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is a suggestion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:10:38]] For 232 A decision has been made. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that we will be considering some more than 40 regulations here, each of the authors of the regulations that we will consider will have the right to present them within two minutes. But in order not to call the head of the committee here on a permanent basis, I propose to listen to all these projects, to the committee head's report on all draft regulations, and then to their discussion. In view of the fact that there are more than 40 of them, it is clear that in two minutes a reporter may not be available. So within what two times forty is going to be even 80 minutes. Please, please, Makinka. Try within 5 to 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u5	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! A number of appropriate decisions were taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine from July 3 to 6, this year. At the same time, Ukraine's individual national deputies took advantage of the right provided for in article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, and introduced a number of draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the adoption of draft laws and regulations in general and in the first reading of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft laws and regulations. Considering that, according to part of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be revoked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the corresponding act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is signed by the Head of the Supreme Council. The Committee did not consider draft decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by numbers 10701-p, 10701-1-p, 10701-2-p, 10701-3-p, 10701-4-p 10701-5-p, 10702-p, 10702-1-p, 10702-2-p, 10702-3-p. These rulings apply to the election of judges. And number 10696-p on the approval of the calendar plan for the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Since all these decrees were signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 7, 2012. In addition, at the meetings of the Committee on 12-13 July, the draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to repeal the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft laws of Ukraine in the first reading were, in general, introduced by the People's Deputies of Ukraine: Carmazinim, Bodnar, Fominim, Upper, Tomenkov and others, by numbers: 3251-p1-p, 6343-p, 6472-p, 6633-p, 8652-p, 8755-p, 9209-p, 9428-p, 9557-p, 9615-p, 9747-p, 9779-p, 10020-p, 10155-p, 10224-p, 10231-3-p, 10268-p, 10337-p, 103-p, 10356-p, 10411-p, 10424-p, 10424-p, 104-p, 10428-p, 1072-p, 1072-p-p-p, 10725-105-105-105-105-105-105-3-P, 105-55-P. In considering these issues, the Committee noted the imperfections of the legislative mechanism provided for in article 48 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides preconditions for delaying the legislative process. In addition, the committee made a number of comments on the above draft regulations, including that they were all introduced by the entities of the legislative initiative without complying with the requirements of part three, fifth, of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The initiators were introduced on their own, without being involved in the established order of the reckoning commission, and the number of national MPs present was established when the initiators considered the relevant issues because of the actual absence of them personally in the hall, by the way, they did not even register some of them. Nor has there been any relevant statement of violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules in the consideration and vote of the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council. In addition, a large part of the draft regulations that have been tabled by national deputies with reference to article 48 of the Rules of Procedure refer to laws that have been prepared for second reading on a regular basis. Before them, proposals were made by the people's deputies, who because of their absence, the authors, in the plenary session were not subject to consideration. In view of the above, the Committee adopted conclusions and decided to propose to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with Part One of Part Two of Part Two of Rule 94 of the Supreme Council Rules, that the entities of the legislative initiative should be returned to the designated draft regulations without being considered at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, in view of the introduction of this issue for the consideration of the extracurricular session, the aforementioned rulings are proposed to be rejected. At the same time, the committee paid considerable attention to the draft regulations under headings 9073-P3, 9073-P4, 9073-P5, 9073-P6, concerning the Ukrainian Language Policy Act. After examining the transcript of the Parliament’s plenary session of July 3, 2012, the committee noted that the situation in the plenary session room should be taken into account when voting on the review and adoption of the law. That is, noise in the hall, opposition to national MPs, interference with access to microphones, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u6	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u7	Obstacles in access to microphones and so forth have not contributed to the full scope of the bill. In such a situation, it is considered appropriate to consider today’s plenary session of the above - mentioned draft regulations on language law. I would like to point out from the committee that the law was adopted in the first reading. The Committee also considered draft regulations No. 10576-P, 10680-P, 10682-P on adopted laws amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012. Noting that these draft regulations have not been made by the entities of the legislative initiative without complying with the requirements of part three of the Fifth Article 48 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the initiators of the introduction have not made appropriate allegations of violations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules when considering and voting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council in plenary sessions, the Committee noted that, inter alia, Bill 10576 was adopted as a law at the same plenary meeting as it was included in the agenda. In this regard, it is proposed to consider draft regulations at 10576-P, 10680-P, 10682-P. On July 5, 2012, the Ukrainian Parliament passed the Act on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of national deputies on October 28, 2012. Draft decrees number 10681-p, 10681-p1, 10681-p2 were introduced by the national deputies in accordance with article 48 of the Rules. The Committee considers that not all the requirements of the Rules are taken into account by the authors when these projects are introduced. However, in view of the need to rule out any question of legitimacy of the decision adopted in relation to the next election campaign, as well as the fact that it was adopted as a result of the first reading of the bill, the draft decrees under number 10681-p, 10681-p1, 10681-p2, according to the committee, should be the subject of our consideration at today's plenary session. Thus, the Committee proposes 30 draft rulings to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be rejected, namely, 3251-p1p????, 6343p, 6472p, 6633p, 8652p, 8755p, 9209p, 9428p, 9557p, 9615p, 9747p, 9779p, 10020p, 10155p, 10224p, 10231-3p, 10268p, 10286p, 10337p, 10356p, 10411p, 10424p, 10428p, 10437p, 10407p, 10539p, 10554p, 10557p, 10708p, 10724p. See also draft regulations by number 9073-p3, 9073-p4, 9073-p5, 9073-p6, 10576p, 10680p, 10682p, 10681p, 10681p1, 10681-p2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u8	Thank you. No questions asked, it's a reduced procedure. Have a seat, please. It's a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, let's keep working like this. You have listened to the report of the regulatory committee, which proposes that 30 draft rulings, I now give you the names of their numbers, the Head of the Supreme Council has directed to the subjects of the legislative initiative without consideration. But since these issues are in the agenda, you and I will now decide to reject these 30 draft regulations. For the 10 draft regulations he called the rapporteur, plus two more draft regulations, when we consider budgetary issues, these are draft regulations, if I'm not wrong about Laszka and Carmazin, then we will also consider these two additional draft regulations. That's why I'm putting a proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u9	I demand a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u10	What's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u11	I have a right to reason. This is the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u12	The point is that you have the right to make a point when they are not sent to you by the subject of the right to work. For the ten that you are, you will each speak, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u13	It's not 10, it's 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u14	You're going to go after every single one that we're going to look at. Dear colleagues, who are in favour of supporting such a proposal for consideration of the matter, namely, those proposals that the committee proposes that the 30 draft regulations, which have been drafted in an inappropriate manner, should now be rejected and not wasted. And 10 draft decrees to consider a reduced procedure. Who's to say that's the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u15	This should be discussed, Adam Ivanovich, well, you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u16	Okay. Write down two for, two against this proposal. Fedun, please. He's refusing? Ephraim, please. Ephraim. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the fact is that we are silent, that the individual authors of the decrees that we are considering were not in the room at all during the time of consideration of the laws on which they have drawn up, which is contrary to the Rules of Work, to appeal further to their decisions. We even closed our eyes on that. Therefore, the requirements of these representatives of the deputies will either be familiar with the regulatory rules as a law and will act under the Rules, or let us not make a circus presentation here, but work in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u18	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u19	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear Chairman! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I think the most rational way that we should go is to support the proposal of the Regulatory Committee, which the Chief has sounded in a brief and concise manner, and not to turn into another pyar-action opposition, what they are proposing. I also confirm that many who are the authors of these regulations were not even in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the time. And I draw attention to the fact that the leader of the opposition has just sounded his great letter to the Ukrainian people and stopped protecting the Ukrainian people by leaving the session room. So that's how they protect the Ukrainian people, so that's how they protect national interests. That's why we don't need to do pear action on a political power, but we need to move to a vote by supporting the proposal of the Regulatory Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u20	Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u21	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to ask you to invite the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Hall whose authority has just been confirmed by a large number of votes so that the issues that will determine Ukraine's future development will be and will be taken into account. That's the first one. The second question. Today's speech by the head of the Regulatory Committee has clearly and unequivocally demonstrated the transformation – the final transformation of the Ukrainian Parliament into a place to play the thimble. For almost five minutes, the chairman of the Regulatory Committee called many issues, draft regulations for which there was no document given to the Ukrainian National Deputies. I call on all the national MPs to come to their senses and not finally turn the higher legislative body of Ukraine into a place to play the thimble. I also want to inform the public of Ukraine that it is among the censuses. The draft regulations that are to be considered are Bill No. 9073, which is the Kiwalova Bill – Koleschenko, the most complex bill that disentangles Ukraine and creates an extremely complex situation that can solve extremely difficult processes in our country. I call on the parliamentary majority to come to their senses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u22	Yes, Gryvkowski refuses? Dear colleagues, I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please be careful. I ask who is in favour of supporting the proposal of a regulatory committee and draft regulations to deal with it this way. To think about it this way, first to reject 30 draft regulations and then 10 to consider. Who's in charge of this procedure, please support me. Please vote. [[10:28:54]] For 254 Procedure supported. Now I'm putting a motion to the vote: to reject draft regulations, to remove the number 3551P, 1-P, 6343-p, 6472-P, 6633-P, 8652-P, 8755-P. I will not call it 9209-P, 9228-P, 9557-P, 9615-P, 9747-P, 9779-P, 10020-P, 10155-P, 10224-P, 10231-3-P, 10268-P, 10286-P, 10086-P, 10337-P, 10356-P, 10411-P, 10424-P, 10428-P, 10437-P, 10497-1-P, 10539-P, 10554-P, 10557-P, 10708-P, 10724-P. Please vote against these draft regulations. [[10:30:43]] For 257 Offer accepted. Now, honourable colleagues, we will consider each of the decisions for which the committee has determined that they should be considered in the session room. Draft Decision 9073-P3: The Karmazin Ordinance on the annulment of the decision "On the adoption of Bill No. 9073 as a whole as a law in the first reading" dated 03.07. There's already been a report from the committee. Then, please, the co-rapporteur is Yuri Anatoliyovich. You have two minutes. Next up is P4, Odarchenko or Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin. Dear national MPs, anything that's going on, or as banditry, I won't call it. At the same time, all the decrees prepared in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act have been rejected and are not considered at all. There was no meeting of the Rules Committee. I am responsible for not leaving Kiev, being in contact all the time, me, my assistants, including yesterday. Waiting for the committee to meet, I couldn't wait. I'm going to look for a meeting. There was no meeting. Because of what has been reported here, Adam Ivanovich? This was reported by an artistic whistle, but not by a committee report. With regard to the language bill 9073, which has so aroused society, I want to tell you that I expressed my protest on the same day under the name of the Head of the Supreme Council, and I have made an appropriate explanatory note and draft decrees. I stress that this bill is considered a grave violation of the Rules. At a time when more than two thousand amendments were not considered by the people’s deputies, they were to be considered only the next day, contrary to the Rules, contrary to our practice of voting. I would like to tell you that this bill carries enormous risks. The colossal risks of balcanization, the lascutization of Ukraine and the federalization, which some now dream of from the naphthalene of politics. You won't be able to do that! As a result, I have been blocked by this decision, and others, where the budget is a derivative. I showed how many national deputies were not present at all. I have shown that no one has yet revoked the 1998 Constitutional Court’s decision of July 7, which clearly states that a national MP has no right to order a vote for himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u24	Finish it, Yuri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u25	I'm done. I believe that such a disgraceful vote should be lifted, and the Supreme Council should consider the Law on Principles of State Language Policy, in accordance with the clear requirements of the Law on Rules, the Constitution of Ukraine, consider all amendments and do not take into account the law, constitutional law, legislative proposals and their stand in this sessionary room. You took that right away from us. It's never been in this room before. That's the first time you've done this. Because of this. Surrender and cancel this decision! You can't cancel, you can't sign them anyway. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! She won't die, even though you want to kill her with your tongue now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, apart from the Jury Anatoliyovich bill, we have three draft decrees: p4, p5, and p6. So let's listen to other reporters, and since these are alternative bills, let's talk together. 9073-P4, authors – Odarchenko, Kurpil. No reporters? None. Bill 9073-P5, Yacenouk is the author of the bill. Well, he said he thought they were leaving the session room. And Bill No. 9073-P6, the author of the bill is Sas. Well, the same thing, of course. So, dear colleagues, I'm announcing a discussion, a recording of draft regulations by number 9073-P3, P4, P5, P6. Please sign up for the performance. Ivan Hare, please. Get ready for Gryvkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u27	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! The parliamentary majority in the Party of Regions, Communists, Lithuanians and others continues the constitutional coup d'état in the Supreme Council. You know, the language bill of Kiwalova, Koleschenka, is the one called to tear Ukraine apart, the one called to destroy the Ukrainian state, the one who wants to make the title nation of the Ukrainian people who don't have their own house, they don't have their own state. And they're continuing this black thing today because they voted on July 3rd, not for the bill, but for some fiction, because the Supreme Council didn't have a table for the second reading, because it wasn't even possible to vote in the first reading, because in fact the deadline for the submission and processing of amendments and proposals to this bill was not complete. That is why the parliamentary majority today continues to do their black work. Today they want to reject draft regulations that indicate that this bill has not been adopted to this day and that it cannot be signed by anyone, either Lithuania or Mr. Adam Martinyuk, who then served as a Jew. Therefore, honourable national MPs, these bills cannot be considered today! They're not working on committees, they're not being handed over to the National Deputies today, they're today, they're not being informed by society! So today we see another attempt to continue the coup d'état. Today some people, Ukrainian people who don't like Ukrainians who don't like Ukrainian languages, who don't like Ukrainian culture, have become engrossed not only in the status of Ukrainian as the only national language, but also in the future. So we don't have to support these proposals. We must condemn them as those who destroy the state. They're criminals!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u28	Grivkovsky refuses. Please, Chechet's Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u29	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences. You must understand that an election campaign was launched today. And many MPs have already led the electoral moods, started the pyres, started the emotions. And everything turns upside down. But if you reject a purely electoral attack and look from the perspective of the Rules, from the standpoint of the Constitution. The point of democracy is that each of the people's deputies, regardless of whether he is a majority representative or a minority representative, has the right to submit a bill. And the hall has the right to consider. But the point of democracy is that the majority, whose mandate of trust is expressed by the people, has the right to make a decision. The minority is to make arguments against, criticize, etc. But a minority has no right to physically obstruct the adoption of the law. With regard to the law that was passed, it is absolutely in the Constitution, and it clearly reaffirms the only national language in Ukraine, which is Ukrainian. It is clearly in line with the European Charter on the Languages of National Minorities. I don't know where the opposition is going, which is not present today. Although there were three orders in their languages and they were not available in the Hall. But we are going to Europe and we are going to Ukraine, and of course we are following the European Charter. Therefore, in our view, the law has been adopted with absolute legitimacy, adopted by a majority that has been given a mandate of confidence in the elections. To date, there is no reason to question the repeal of the adopted law on second reading. I repeat, this law, on the contrary, consolidates the nation, because one country language is Ukrainian and, on the other hand, gives the right to feel comfortable with people of different nationalities within a large and friendly Ukrainian family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u30	Question completed. There's no such thing. Dear colleagues, we have, once again, four draft regulations, although they are absolutely identical because they relate to the same question. But in order for there to be no screaming again, I'll put every draft decision on the vote separately. It's about voting on the draft Decree 9073-P3. The author is Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:13]] For-46 The factions, please. Region Party 3, Fatherland – BUT – 0, Our Ukraine – 8, Communists did not vote, People's Party – 18, Reforms – 15, non-fractional – 2. Puts to the vote the draft Decree. [[9073-P4]] Odarchenko, Kurpil are authors. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:41:49]] For-37 Not supported. The factions. Show the factions, please. "Our Ukraine" - 5, the Communist faction - did not vote, the People's Party - 18, Reforms - 12, non-fractional - 2. Bill No. 9073-P5 is submitted by the People's Deputy Yacenuk. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:42:31]] For-38 Not supported. And Bill No. 9073-P6 is submitted by national deputy Sass. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:42:56]] For-42 By factions at the request of the Light, please show me. The Party of the Regions – 1, BUT – 2, Our Ukraine – 7, the Communists – did not vote, the People's Party – 18, Reforms for the Future – 12, non-fractional – 2. The next draft decree that we have to consider, Bill 10576-P on repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012." [[on the increase in capital expenditure and technical refurbishment of coal-fired enterprises]] Author of the bill Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the authorities are only doing what they're doing, where they're looking for money for elections, how to break the state budget, like elections are the end of the year. What's next? Next will be the devaluation of the bracelet and the deep economic crisis. But no one thinks of people today. All the opinions of the politicians have been captured only by the dream of a five - year - old political olympus. Neither the Constitution nor the laws nor the Regulations are respected in the Supreme Council today. Because of this, I am firmly against the fact that the cost of a $1 billion proposal by the Ukrainian People's Deputy is once again unwarranted, uncalculated. You and I have passed anti-corruption laws, anti-corruption laws. They provide mandatory anticorruption expertise for every project, every regulatory act, whether it's a government decree or a presidential decree or a draft law. Where are the experts? Who led them? A billion there, a billion there. Here's what you want. I was at the Budget Committee today. From nine o'clock there, a 9-44 session began. In 12 minutes, 44 papers were reviewed, billions were distributed, and they were scattered in a poor state. I regret the representatives of the political forces who supported these projects. This is why these projects, this project, which I am talking about right now -- the allocation of an additional billion -- were not included in the order of the day in which the law was laid down, not handed over to the national parliaments to get to know, not to follow the procedure of discussion, the first-reading procedure, which led to the deprivation of the rights of national deputies and the gross violation of the requirements of the Rules. What's more, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, when you get to know the transcript of this project, you'll see that it was only the first reading of the project. As a result, I made adjustments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u32	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich, please sit down. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. Then sign up. Two in, two in. Yes, please, Arjevitin. Carmazine, please. Turmanov prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! I would like to point out the second time that drafts that have been adopted in an unconstitutional way have been sent to the President and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for this project. I gave them both my warning, and my violation of the Constitution, and I showed the violation of the rules of the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine that took place, in particular the 1998 decision of July 7, which records how to vote and to whom and that the MP is required to be registered in writing and cannot verify his or her credentials. The issue of the adoption of these bills is put to the vote by the chairman without prior inclusion in the agenda in accordance with the requirements of part 5 of article 47 and part 1 of article 96 of the Rules, without prior consideration of the bill by the Main Committee, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. We didn't get any conclusions. They couldn't be done! Since it was only introduced and immediately considered by scientific and expert authorities that did not comply with article 93 of the Rules Act, articles 1, 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it also did not meet the requirements of articles 98 and 117 of the Rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make sure that we don't go to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, but to the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food. This is a much more far-reaching investment, and the economy of Ukraine is much more needed. It was these amendments that I sent to the Committee on Budgets. Regrettably, the budget committee for these amendments. That's why I urge you to come to your senses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u34	Yes, thank you. Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! We are listening today to these proponents who are not here for the first year in Parliament. They're professors, they're professionals. I raise the issue of financing the coal sector. The government does not allocate funds to elections, but rather to this very complex industry. You know that gas is expensive, and today the alternative in Ukraine is coal. Thus, 2.2 billion bracelets have been allocated. Where will this money go? They will go to capital construction, including the completion of the Novovolinska mine, which means the inflow of funds, capital construction and technical re-arms. This will provide an opportunity to increase the production volume. One and a half times, the previous power in general destroyed the coal industry, we raised the level of production. We've already raised tariff rates three times this year for our miners. It's a heroic profession. What are you doing here? You're going from empty to empty? The bill must therefore be supported. The shatters deserve it. And one thing must be said: there are no alternatives in Ukraine today, except coal. I therefore ask all parliamentarians, including those who have spoken here, to support this law and to decide and allow miners today to continue working, developing and giving the coal that our State needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u36	We need to record. Because from your faction, he signed up for it. And it can't be from the faction for and against. There can only be one speaking for or against the faction. Read the Rules. I'm voting on the Karmazin Ordinance at 10576-P, please. [[10:51:19]] For the Not accepted. We are considering the draft Decree No. 10680-P, repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 04.07.2012 on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2012". [[on expenditure to ensure the activities of the Attorney-General's Office]] The author of the bill is Yuri Karmazin. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, from this rostrum, we have heard about the success of judicial reform. It's been a year and a half since we made changes to the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. The result is a completely subject to the authority of the judicial system. The result is a review of politically motivated cases, which are now recognised even at the level of the OSCE, because the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe stressed that there are problems with the independence of the courts and problems with this legislation, and there are problems with political prisoners, including names and names of Timoshenko and Lucenka. I want to tell you that from this rostrum, after one major reform of the Law on the Courtship and Status of Judges, we have made great, colossal, in our paws as well as “improvement”, we have improved this, only incomprehensible for whom, the Criminal Procedure Code. Here, from this rostrum we were told that the adoption of this code would not cost us the holding.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u39	It's probably working for you already. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, we have been assured that nothing will cost the law. And then all of a sudden, it was only necessary for the prosecution to introduce a thousand with an extra man -- that's one-tenth of the entire prosecutor's office, one-tenth of an increase. It only took 175 million a year, 350 will need it. And so every year. And this is just one department.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u41	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u42	As a result, I believe that when the authorities took their legal money from the Chernobylites and Afghans, it was said that the authorities would pay, and there was no money in the budget. And this is where the money appears. And despite the fact that the House of Accounts has been convincingly telling us that the money for mining is being stolen as a matter of fact, we are now talking about the allocation of funds. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u43	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. You talked about mining before. Well, I gave you 30 seconds, and you were expelled by 5, so you've even won 25 seconds. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Sign up. Please, Karmazin. Behind him is Chechtev. He's handing over the can. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Carmazin, thank you for your opportunity to speak. Dear voters, we are told by the authorities that there is no money to raise pensions. While the MPs from most of them were resting, look who they're all on fire! – while they were resting, partying, I went to see people. And the pensioners tell me that Azarov added as much as 6 bracelets to his pension, added to his pension. That's how generous they are. And they're adding almost 200 million dollars to the Attorney General's Office at that time. That's up to three billion dollars that are already in the financing of the Attorney General's Office this year. There's an introductory campaign coming up. Children from simple families cannot enter a school because they have nothing to pay for their schooling. Because they say, "Pay the money, because there's no funding in the budget." That is, for free education, there is no money medicine in the budget, and for the Attorney General's Office to build a new office for them to set up new offices to account for political and criminal matters, there is money in the budget. So I strongly object to the adoption of the Act on the Increase of Expenditures to the Attorney General's Office. I demand that today's government, from today's government, introduce to the Supreme Council a bill to lower at least three times the cost of maintaining state authorities and starting with the Supreme Council, starting with the President, the Cabinet of Ministers. Three ways to cut costs and savings is to finance education, medicine. This is what will enable our country to be competitive in the third millennium. And what the current authorities are doing by increasing spending on the prosecution, on the militia, on the raspberries they're buying 670 grams of kilograms -- whatever you're drowning in that raspberries you're wearing. You're eating. People stand by a penny, scowl on the markets, and you're drowning in this brilliant raspberries! That's why it's the law! Get out of the way!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u45	Mikhailo Chechetov. Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, you know, I happened to be a witness just like the one who was on the scene was coming back from the "Oreandy" burning up, beautiful. And yesterday he was in Orlando, this performer, who was now criticizing the disgraceful power. He just flew in from Orlando to continue. But I want to tell the reporter. Yuri Anatoliyovich, you referred to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I was a member of this OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, where seven amendments were actually considered from the opposition initiative, which was called “Ukraine” and where, thanks to the proposals of two colleagues from the opposition, seven amendments were made, which once again disgraced our state, not only disgraced but called for such action against our state. [[I don't want to call names.]] So here's what they've been offering, and I want the compatriots to hear it from all of you. One of the amendments proposed by the opposition was that state officials of the higher class who are in prison are entitled to treatment not only outside the prison but also abroad. That is, not all TB sufferers or others were concerned, but those in prison who have the right to be treated abroad. So let's all send a cure. And the second suggestion proposed by the same group from the opposition is that those who have received a certain term and are in prison have the right to participate in elections to parliament. So I asked the speaker, namely, respected colleagues, at least one country in Europe or in a world where those who received the term of imprisonment had the right to participate in the elections were not named. So let me put it this way, Yuri Anatoliyovich, just as the opposition that brought a disgrace to the state's resolution did not really honor anyone. It was a pharaoh against our state. As far as you're concerned. We voted to actually give extra money to the prosecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I address Stoyan and others. You speak according to the law, not mention it. the MPs who are asking for a lineup. And then you'll ask for a line. So you talk about the subject, not what you want. Please, Baby, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u48	Dear voters! I'm asking the Supreme Council operators to show Mr. Stoyan's face and show my face. And let the people compare which of us is more inflamed. Apparently, Mr. Stoyan is on a luganian or donetic mine, so he's black. Yes, I really came back from Crimea yesterday, but what I was doing there. At a session of the Yaltin City Council, a decision was made to close the evening school. In the center of Yalta is an evening school that has functioned for more than 50 years. Today it is like a pain in the eye to the local oligarchs because it is in the center of Yalta. And I, along with the Yaltian community, fought against the regional majority in the Yaltin City Council so as not to make a decision to close the school. That regional gang that sits in the Yaltin City Council, like wolves, attacked me, tried, hurt me. Yet, it did not stop us, and we stand still in the evening school. Because in Yalta, when you arrive, you can't go to sea. Assets grow every year as mushrooms grow after the rain. Beaches pay, - a normal person can't go in there! And they're at school.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u49	Please, one minute, Carmazin. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u50	Yuri Carmazin. As a reply, I would like to say, Your Honor, I am responsible for what I have said. And if I have this resolution right now that really doesn't do Ukraine much credit. It's called Monaco, July 5-9, 2012. It's called the "Ukraine" resolution. In Russian, I have a translation into Russian: “Being concerned about the overall deterioration of the political situation in Ukraine in the fulfilment of its obligations in the field of human rights, the rule of law and democracy, and in particular the continued detention of former Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko and cases of improper treatment of her, as also mentioned in the statements at the last winter meeting.” And according to maintenance and treatment, it says, "The Ukrainian authorities are calling on the Ukrainian authorities to ensure health and health care for a number of former officials in prison, including Lucenka, Ivashchenka, Timoshenko, and to allow, without any conditions, preliminary medical treatment."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u51	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for Decree 10680-P, author of Carmazin. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:03:14]] For the four of us. Not supported. We are considering the draft Decree 10682-P on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 04.07.2012 on the adoption of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012. [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] The author of the bill is Yuri Karmazin. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u52	Yuri Carmazin. It is unfortunate that our projects are supported by four votes or five, sadly, as a language bill supported by only 48 votes. This number of people in the room today and that number of people are interested in these questions, I'm not talking about most. I think it's totally out of line with the law, the requirements of how the law was adopted, also in the same way as what I was saying, and the draft of the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012." [[on the expenditure of the Central Electoral Commission]] [[10682]] It's about making a huge huge sum of 993 million dollars to establish what's supposed to be the openness, transparency and democraticity of elections. It's very interesting that there's no signed law, nothing, and the CIA already says that Russian Federation experts are going to do that. I want you all to know, all the national MPs, that since the government meeting, the same bill has been withdrawn because there were no grounds, because it was absolutely specific. And what's more, look at the conclusion of our Scientific and Experimental Authority, which we have no reason not to trust. They concluded that according to the first reading of the bill, it was appropriate to reject it. And we're talking about taking it as a whole. That's why I'm addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, welcoming you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, with confidence, welcoming you, addressing your faction in Parliament, calling on the faction of the Party of the Regions, the Communist Party, to say, "Dear ones, what you've seen is what these funds are written for -- no." What is our country's development, which is being implemented, is not. It's all been there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u53	Yes, thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Carmazine. He's got Zarubinski. Baby, please. But, dear fellows, please register correctly. You signed up for support, well, basically, that's good.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectful voters, respected citizens of Ukraine, from the state budget are expected to allocate a billion dollars to install video cameras at polling stations. The government thus motivates these cameras to make the election process more transparent. All of this is not really true. It's a waste of money. And that's why. Because the problem is not the absence of video cameras in the polling stations, but the problem with the electoral law that was voted here in the Supreme Council. A party of regions, I want to remind you, voted in favour of this law, "BUT" and part of "Our Ukraine" is controlled by Yatzenuk. This is the main problem on the basis of which elections will be falsified. Because they introduced the majority of the elections. And all the voters, you see now how the benefactors appeared nameless, without party belongings, grew up like mushrooms after the rain, the Greeks distributed, the money distributed, everything distributed in the world to buy your voices. Remember, then, that all the benefactors have already written claims to join the faction of the regions. And once you vote for these benefactors, tomorrow they'll be in a faction of regions and will vote for Yanukovich to choose the president for life. So I turn to the voters, not to vote for these tobacco devils, the benefactors who got divorced, who fool the people who stole your money, and now they're trying to buy you for a penny. And so you can solve the problem of forging elections one way -- change the electoral law, lower the threshold to 2 percent to allow the new political powers to pass, because we actually see that in this law, which is -- there's going to be a party of regions again. And once again, there will be this so-called, united opposition that neither those nor others in the country have done anything, people are already sitting in their livers, and long ago all of them in the neck of the chase need to be brought in, new people need to be brought in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u55	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In Roman law, one of the key principles is "whomever benefits." I'm going to ask the question from the back door: Who doesn't? Who doesn't benefit from having video cameras on polling stations? The answer from once or from one question is not convenient for anyone who has just adopted this bill to just start screaming with a historically screeching voice, including from the Supreme Council's rostrum: "Damn, away, no surveillance, no cameras," and so on, referring to Russia's experience, as said by the non-democratic state. When we discussed this bill, I cited the example that this experience, not Russia, but Georgia, which is very often praised by us, we simply have one thing -- which is convenient and what is not convenient -- that is not praised and forgotten. I propose to join in with this experience, why not? Two key positions: the first, because those matrixes, the ones that are now scheduled for forged elections, if the result is not the one that satisfies those who speak out against video cameras, it's clear that video cameras are not needed, because you can see how the voting process is going on. By the way, free in the fence, in the nucleus, as they say, of European parliamentary democracy -- in Britain, they've already said it's positive, it's information. But I would like to say another point: Why not convenient? And it's not convenient that the key point, the focus, is that the video camera is going to show how many electorate people have entered the polling station. Here's what Cosma Prutkov used to say, right, "appetize to the root," and why to the root? And that means that in those polling stations where they live, de facto, 30-35 percent, you can't actually show 99 percent anymore, because those people are 60 percent working abroad. That's the point of the problem, that's why it's here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u57	Thank you. Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u58	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, if you ask the question with an edge: was it not necessary to pass the law? I will answer truthfully: it may not be necessary, but on one condition, if we did indeed have a patriotic opposition working for a State that did not go outside the country, would not send a bucket of dirt on the Power, would cause tremendous damage to the image and reputation of the country. And today, when we are going to an election campaign, the Party of Regions and Power is interested in ensuring that the image and reputation of the State are not affected after the elections. To that end, we want the elections to be fair, transparent, public, fair, competitive, so that people have no doubts about why they voted that way, and other people in power. And since we are already under pressure to do so today, as statements from the opposition abroad have already been made today and separate political leaders are being set up abroad, that elections can only be fair if the opposition wins, and in all other timetables, these elections will be unfair. That is when we took this step to protect the image and reputation of the country. This will indeed enable the transparency of the elections, and we know when, especially in Western Ukraine, millions of people traveled abroad to earn money, and there are individuals who voted for tens, for half of the village, for half the village. And now it's all going to be taken off the video camera, and that's the prison, that's the prison that's going to vote like that. And of course, the biggest blow on the electoral base of the opposition, and they don't know what to do today. But we will protect a free, honest choice of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u59	Question completed. I'm voting for Decree 10682-P, author of Carmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:13:37]] For the Not supported. We have draft regulations 10681-P, P1 and P2. So we're going to listen to the reporters, and we're going to talk about them because they're alternate, together. 10681-P, author - Tomenko. None. 10681-P1. Authors: Bondar, Fomin, Upper. They're gone. And 10681-P2, author is Carmazin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u60	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian People’s Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, it was now said that we had adopted the Money Allocation Act and talked about what was not constitutionally acceptable. And now we're talking about the Law on the Features of Ensuring the Openness, Transparency and Democracy of the Elections of People's Deputies on October 28, 2012, introduced by counterpart Zabarski. Who is against the bill, in principle, that it exists? I don't mind, I did, I made that point. But let's not have the propanity that's written here. There's an election, there's an election, there's an observation, and there's no monitoring! What's written here is not at all. What's written here, which is only stored for one year of video surveillance, is published only by CFC in exceptional cases and so on, is, excuse me, very far away from transparency. As a result, this bill had to be written down: under five years of age, materials are stored, as is electoral documentation, in order to avoid any counterfeiting. This time. The other one. Here, in the law, it should be written what they appear to be, the video surveillance materials, the vote count for the candidates for the MPs, the political parties -- that's who. And immediately, and that they may be evidence in court. Here's what I'm asking you to do. Vote. But make a normal, clean, transparent law, not a law that will only make it legal to see democracy. That's what I'm talking about. Just so you know. It was us, including your humble servant George Carmazin, who persuaded our foreign colleagues to help with funding for such things so that they would not be budgeted. And that's why we wanted transparency in the counting of votes. This law is so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u61	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up. Please, Karmazin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u62	Jaroslav Jodzik, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Lord Chairman! A few months ago, I personally warned the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that if there was such a pace to break the rules of action of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we would soon consider all draft laws, regulations, not on the documents handed down to the deputies, but only on the numbers of those documents. Today we see a unique precedent when virtually no Ukrainian national deputy other than the chairman of today’s session has any document, no decision with those issues that Adam Ivanovich calls. That's the first one. The other one. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you once again to invite the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, who has recently been restored to the confidence of the parliamentary majority so that he does not allow such disgrace to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the last. Recently, one of the leaders of the faction of the Party of Regions said that they were acting with the mandate of most people. I want to remind this leader of the Party of the Regions that this Supreme Council of Ukraine is acting on the results of the 2007 elections. Thus, as a result of these elections, these factions, which now form part of the so - called parliamentary majority, have won less than 200 votes. So you act on behalf of a minority of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u63	Fedun please pass Chechov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u64	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I want to be. Most European electoral observers in those countries where the video was used confirm the dramatic increase in the objectivity, integrity and transparency of those elections. That's the first one. Second. The author himself said that it was really a huge plus for using webcams. Yes, he has a different view of what should be stored there for 10, 15 or 20 years, but the elections themselves will actually go through more honestly and transparently. Most importantly, the psychological installation of webcams will pressure potential forgers who will understand that everything is visible, everything is written, and the prison. This damocles sword, I repeat, which will hang over forgers, will really prevent the will of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u65	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I'm putting these draft decrees to the vote. The draft of Decree 10681-P, author Tomenko, is on the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:20:41]] For the five of us. Not supported. Project Regulation 10681-P1. Authors Bodnar, Fomin, Upper. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:06]] For two. Not supported. Project Regulation 10681-P2. Author Karmazin. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:21:31]] For the Not supported. We have completed the draft regulations at this stage. Let me make an announcement. In accordance with article 59 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to a personal statement, I am reporting the withdrawal of the Ukrainian People's Deputy from the deputy faction “Clock of the Yulia Timoshenko-Batakishina” in the Supreme Council of the sixth invocation of Korotjuk Vadim Ivanovic. And, honourable colleagues, in order to conclude with the bills for which we have considered draft regulations for their rejection, for the faithful cancellation of decisions, we still have a proposal for Bill No. 9073 on the Principles of State Language Policy under 131 articles. Here are the proposals of the Head of the Supreme Council to improve the bill. They're not being discussed. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's very simple, look. I suggest you do it again. 131 Article is the order of the elimination of disagreements and inconsistencies in the adopted law. Part four, part four says it's not the law itself. This is a clarification of his suggestions and so on and so forth. I repeat, read 131st, 131rd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u66	You're stretching this law, so let's talk, you have no right to be deprived! Millions of people have rebelled against this law. You're cheating again!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council for 131 articles on clarifications to the Language Law. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u68	Adam Ivanovich! You have no right to do this, I said! Get your hands off me! You have no right! That's cheating! What are you doing?Oh, my God! Adam Ivanovich! What are you doing? Get your hands off me!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u69	Read article 131. Please show the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u70	Cheating what you're doing! You have no right to do this! You have no right to do this! You have no right to do this! This is fraud! — 1 Corinthians 15: 33.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u71	Calm down. Calm down. Dear colleagues! Once again, I place 131 articles on the Law of Language Politics. Please vote. [[11:24:57]] For-21 The factions, please. The Party of Regions - 2, "BUT - Fatherland", "Our Ukraine", the Communists did not vote, "The People's Party" - 19, "Reforms" - 0, non-fractional - 0. Thus, respectable colleagues, amendments, and more faithfully, the harmonization of Law 9073 through 131 articles has not been accepted. Not accepted. We are considering a draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law. Dear colleagues, in order to calm the violent heads, the violent heads in the face of those who are fighting another scandal here, I can repeat it to him, but with more severe consequences for him. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll explain it to the fools. No changes have been made to the law, so calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] The draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is under consideration. [[Registration numbers: 11025, 11025-1]] I ask you to consider it as a reduced procedure. [[11:26:39]] For 222 Offer supported. I invite you to report to the First Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Popovic Igor Mikolaiovich, 2 minutes. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u72	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Today, due to the lack of the necessary amount of natural gas, Ukraine's economy in general and the fuel and energy complex in particular are faced with the urgent need to solve the problem of dependence on imported natural gas, which is constantly increasing. In accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation with the State Development Bank of the People's Republic of China, arrangements have been reached for the opening of a special credit line and the inclusion of credit resources under State guarantees totalling US$ 3.6 billion for projects to replace natural gas with domestic coal. In particular, it is envisaged that technologies will be introduced using heat, hydrocarbon, and coal - and - coal gasification. Only the first five projects will achieve the following results: reducing the consumption of imported natural gas by more than 3 billion cubic metres, saving currency annually to an average of $1.2 billion, reducing budget expenditure to 150 million dollars, providing a stable market for domestic coal companies to 10 million tons. And the further increase in domestic coal production. The creation of an additional 15,000 new jobs. Taking into account what has been said, with a view to improving the state's energy security and taking into account the significant relevance of reducing the consumption of imported natural gas, please support the bill amending article 6 of the State Budget Act, as proposed by the Government of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u73	Thank you. Bill 11025-1, reports Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u74	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with the widow who, in an explanatory note to the project, notes that the lack of the necessary amount of natural gas for the economy of Ukraine in general and the fuel and energy complex in particular are the immediate solution to the problem of dependence on imported gas, and I offer another alternative offer. I don't agree that the only priority is to involve China's credit funds in financing a program to replace natural gas consumption with coal. I think it's more of a priority to use gas in the Black Sea shelf. Let me give you some specifics. Research has shown that the availability of significant reserves of gas and oil is not a myth, and the reality and own production of these resources are a prospect. As a result of the expedition back in 1988-1989, it was discovered that in the Black Sea at depths of 200 to 800 meters, there are crops of methane and natural gas that are between 250 and 1,200 meters thick below the sea floor with ten meters thick. In our time, we asked the question that in terms of methane reserves of Black Sea gas hydrates, if you take the whole pool, you estimate an average of 50 trillion cubic meters. If the annual production of Ukraine is about 20 billion tons per unit, 50 trillion will supply gas for several hundred or thousands of years. Because of this myth about the so-called gas needle, about why you're all crawling in front of Russia, or before Putin, it's a myth, it doesn't exist. All we need to think about is that our native scientists have already developed special underground gas extraction facilities. The equipment is capable of gaining 70 meters of sea soil, which is where the basic stocks of valuable raw materials are concentrated, the equipment has been tested in other seas, and has shown a level.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u75	Yes, thank you. Let's sign up for a discussion. Carmazine, follow him, Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u76	Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u77	Kulikov. Please, Kirilo Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u78	Thank you very much, Yuri Anatolyovich. A budget committee was held today on these issues. I want to say that the elections will be over in three months, and we can talk about any questions, language or anything else, it's an element of independence. The main ingredient is economic independence, today we're increasing the level of marginal debt, Mr. Finance Minister, by 53.8 billion dollars how can that be? What country is taking credit for the purchase of seeds, for the purchase of mining equipment in China, see, in Ukraine this is done. This is a related loan, Mr. Minister of Finance, you are a professional banker. How much is the Saxony for borrowing this loan from China’s International Development Bank? I want to say that language is very important. I went to Ukrainian, I speak Ukrainian. Most importantly, the country's economic independence. Today we are completely losing our country's economic independence. And if a country like Ukraine buys seeds in China, if a country like Ukraine buys chemicals, please speak Chinese soon. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come to your senses. Today we will lose everything we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u79	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u80	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The faction of the Company of Ukraine believes that the laws, those relating to natural gas, are the most important. We need to answer: Will a state monopoly be imposed on this type of activity? Today, we must give a clear answer to the question: How many drills do we have in Ukraine, to whom do they belong, and how much do they extract? At what price and where do these costs come from? I'll let you know. That the cost of Poltava gas is several hundred dollars. And the budget sector pays $588 for every thousand cubes. So as long as we're in this situation, we're going to be miserablely exploiting our nadra and we're going to be out of natural gas. I'm here today, using the presence of the Deputy Minister and Vice Prime Minister, paying your attention, begging and praying. In Poltavska today, there is no scrap of gas in the peasants. And as far as Poltava's leadership isn't asking to give clumped gas, through those illegal auctions or the opaque ones, it's not available to Poltavščina. The citizens of the Seminal region today do not have gas supplies, but they cannot buy a bottle of compressed gas. And this is in an area that is the most oil and gas-intensive area of Poltavščina. Ukraine. This is a kind of Kuwait. If the peasant is heating and cooking his soup on the stove, whatever we're talking about, we can't solve this. But the faction of the Company of Ukraine will be the first to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u81	Yuri Litwin. Please, Zarubinsky? Please. Oh, no? Dear colleagues! We forgot about the committee. Please, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs and invited! The committee at its meeting reviewed the bill 11025 and decided to support the bill. The bill is designed to implement projects to replace natural gas with domestic coal in accordance with the Protocol on Cooperation with the National Development Bank of the People’s Republic of China by providing guarantees to the government and by obliging economic operators. In order to achieve the stated goal, article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 proposes to increase the national guarantee ceiling by 29 billion 500 million dollars. In the light of the above, the Budget Committee adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill on registration number 11025 to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a bill taking into account the budget proposals made by the Committee. It is appropriate to entrust the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the drafting of the bill, with the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the committee's proposals for a bill. Thank you for your attention. Please support, vote on the bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, it was I who gave it to him, because this is where Easy got me a little out of order. True, the journalists would like to know that I did not water it, but he did. There he is. Tea, tea. So be careful and watch. Dear colleagues, this matter has been discussed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis and in general, taking into account the Committee's proposals, Bill 11025: Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012. [[on the financing of natural gas substitution projects]] Please vote. [[11:39:03]] For 263 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the financing of priority agricultural projects]] [[Registration numbers: 11034, 11034-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:39:41]] For the 220. Supported. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Shevchenko Yuri Ivanovich. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u84	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The draft law proposed for consideration is designed to implement the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Agriculture Priority Projects between the China Export and Import Bank and the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food. The purpose of the bill is to provide financial support for agricultural projects, to build plant protection products, to process organic mineral fertilizers and other agricultural construction projects in Ukraine: land cultivation, to purchase plant protection products, seeds of agricultural plants, agricultural tools and other agricultural products. Agricultural projects require three billion dollars, or 24.3 billion dollars. One of the terms of the loan is the government's State guarantee. In connection with this bill, it is envisaged to amend article 6 of the Law on the State Budget 2012 in part of the definition of the appropriate direction of granting State guarantees to increase the marginal amount of State guarantees in 2012 to 39.3 billion dollars. The adoption of the bill will allow Ukraine's farming entities to engage the credit costs of China's Export-Import Bank to finance agricultural projects, to ensure compliance with commitments from which State guarantees will be made. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin, please, your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u86	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Think about what's going on. 28.5 billion, 24.3 billion, is already 52.8, and plus 24.5 from the previous session, which is 77 billion you're borrowing in China right now. Is it good or bad? It would be good if we went to the Ukrainian economy to create jobs in Ukraine. But it's a bonded loan, bound by a memorandum, and it's going to be more developing, something a little bit giving us jobs, but it's going to work more on China, more on Chinese jobs. So my alternative is to change the numbers first, just to add 5 billion and 300 million, that's first, not plus 28.5, as is provided here, sorry, 24.3 is set out here in this project, that's the first position. And the second position is that it's clear that for the financing of domestic projects in agriculture, they're focused on the development and introduction of new technologies. Haven't there been any such developments? Sergei Leonidovich, using your presence here, I address you. Even though you may see, as the Prime Minister does not look, no one else looks at the promising projects that are today, these are the new high - efficiency breakthrough technologies developed by native agrarians based on the reaction of the living cell to the action of the microwave, depending on the length of the wave, the power of the source, the duration of the action, the characteristics and the structure of the perception of the microwave. The result is up to 30 percent of the increase in crops.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u87	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u88	Thank you. The result of the increase in the yield of agricultural crops – up to 50 percent ecologically clean, our grain will be conducive to the droughts that are currently taking place. Why don't we just want to put five billion in there and take 28.5 for the Chinese? Let us do this in the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you. Please support my project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u89	Please, from the committee, First Deputy Head of the Lukyanov Budget Committee Vladislav Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The committee considered Bill 11034 at its meeting on July 30. The bill is designed to implement the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in Agricultural Priority Projects. For its implementation, it is proposed that article 6 of the State Budget Act 2012 increase the state guarantee ceiling by 24 billion 300 million dollars. It should be noted that the Supreme Council adopted on 4 July this year the Act “On Amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012”, registration number 10683, which dealt with the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation in the Field of Priority Projects in Agriculture through the involvement of State resources. Therefore, if the bill is supported, the bill loses its relevance. In view of the above, the Budget Committee adopted a decision following the consideration of the bill: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill on registration number 11034 to be adopted on the basis and generally as a law taking into account the budget proposals made by the Committee on Budget Issues. Yes, it is necessary to specify the limit of State guarantees in accordance with the 10025 draft bill adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with an amount of 68 billion 800 million dollars. It is appropriate to entrust the Committee on Budgetary Questions, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the drafting of the bill, with the necessary editorial and editorial texts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u91	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u92	related to the committee’s proposals for a bill, taking into account the bill adopted under registration number 11025. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u93	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, Klimenko. The microphone is not on. Yeah, Jojik? Please, Jojik, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u94	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Recently, throughout Europe, Ukraine was humiliated when, for almost four hours, the President of Ukraine, the entire Government of Ukraine, expected the president of the neighbouring state. At that time, he had fun with bikers. For this reason, there was no official statement from the Ukrainian side.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u95	Please, we're discussing changes to the budget project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u96	At the same time today's power, today's power is acting on principle -- what will it do? And it meets the demands of a foreign, neighbouring state. This is what we see in the manoeuvres that are taking place today around the Language Act, the Law of Kiwalova-Kelešnicka, where without any discussion, without any given material, there is another attempt to bring forward this scandalous bill that breaks the whole of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the faction of the Party of Regions what's yet to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u97	Turn off the microphone. I remind my colleague that we are considering a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2012. You've talked about it for about 40 seconds, but not the law. Please have 20 seconds. Now essentially the bill. As we know, the debt burdens on today’s Ukrainian budget are extremely high. Treasury may have periods that do not at all meet local budget obligations by carrying out borrowing obligations. Therefore, the proposed project proposes that the debt burden be increased by 25 billion. Are these proposals so relevant, or are they so effective? And we don't know because there's no techno-economic justification for this project. And it's more likely that these 24 billion dollars will just go into the sand. Today's government says very often that it adheres to the principle of "buy Ukrainian." But the realisation of it is when the Hindus are bought, when the plant protection products are purchased in this case, doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u98	Question completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal: to enact as a whole a law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's State Budget for 2012, taking into account the Committee's proposals. [[on the financing of priority agricultural projects]] [[Registration number 11034]] Please vote. [[11:51:20]] For 263 The law is passed. In view of the fact that we have adopted this law, and we have previously considered the same proposals in Law 10683, there is now a need to consider two draft regulations for alternative, more faithful, decrees 10683P and 10683-P1 on the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012. These are the draft regulations of Karmazin and Lašek. There is a proposal to consider these draft regulations by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:52:21]] For 232 Supported. Please report your draft regulation 10683-P Yuri Karmazin. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u99	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been another violation of the Rules Act, which I have responded to in a parliamentary way, and there is no other way for a parliamentarian to protest against illegal decisions. I suggested that you cancel your decision to take 24 billion dollars, just to buy Chinese agricultural goods, to buy Chinese agricultural products, that is to destroy the Ukrainian village. In the Rules of Procedure, the points that I mentioned, among other things, that the procedure for discussing the bill had not been followed, the procedure for first reading, which had led to the deprivation of the rights of members of the people to legislative initiative. I showed that there were 260 people absent from the ballots, in fact there were more than 100 missing in the hall, which was constrained by the decision of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, if we go this way, we already have 77 billion. The debt to China right now. I'm asking you all what we're going to give? Humans? That's enough for them. Earth? There's nothing else to give back. It is suggested that we then give up the land because we are already in a position to deflate. Let's call these things clearly our names. Ukraine is in a state of technical default. That's why I'm proposing to cancel this decision, this adoption of the law, such as it doesn't suit Ukraine's interests. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u100	Yes, please, then your Bill 10683-P-1 is an easy one to present.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear voters! Ukraine’s total government debt today amounts to 500 billion dollars. Over the past two weeks, the Supreme Council has stressed new laws that have increased government debt by nearly 100 billion dollars. These debts, huge debts lie on the shoulders of each of you, for they take, this authority steals, eats this money, and you return your children, the honourable voters, not Azarov, not Janukovich, who will not be in power tomorrow, and your children and your grandchildren will repay these debts, not the deputies who vote in favour of these laws, for each of them has earned a fortune. But no one thinks of you. And by increasing their debt obligations, they are actually pulling the country into a deadlock. That's why I'm proposing to repeal the three billion dollar loan law in China, the three billion dollars in Ukraine, the Ukrainian peasants, the Ukrainian agricultural producers, the seeds, the agricultural machines, and so on. So each of you can't sell any potatoes or onions. Herson peasants can't sell coffee or melon, and we're going to have to bring in the Chinese salt products that we have to eat here, and we're still going to have to pay back the loan. The same is true of the carbon loan. Show me, I'm going to the government, show me a list of coal companies in Donetsk, Lugansk, who will receive this money. None of them get, the government shuts down its own mines, its own carbon dioxide companies, and they bring Chinese equipment here for which we will then return the money. This is what politics is led by government. This policy leads to state bankruptcy, and this policy leads to the poverty of Ukrainian citizens, and this policy can be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u102	Thank you, thank you. You gave me tea, so I won't, I won't break the Rules. If. If there are speakers, please sign in. Please, Caplienne, prepare the Hare. Caplienko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, there's a lot of talk about this bill today, but I'd like to pay attention to just a few questions. So if you compare the positive amount of this bill with the negative, the negative is ten times greater here, starting with the necessary reconciliations, and ending with the amount you need, well, at least to explain, why, exactly what Chinese, which volume, why do you need the state? And most importantly, what would I like to draw your attention to, please tell me, and what are we developing with this bill? Is there a national area of rural production in Ukraine? Is there a large - scale agricultural processing system in Ukraine? Who are we funding, what are we talking about? This is about agrocultures that actually benefit from this or the State itself? This bill does not refer to State guarantees, unfortunately too much, to lending to the country’s public sector of production, and this is the biggest mistake of the bill, and the commitment it makes is almost 25 billion. This is all I can comment on, I will not personally vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u104	John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u105	John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Respectable compatriots! Obviously, it's all going to be a dumpster, no one's going to be dealing with any environmental or other issues. Today the Supreme Council has gathered to finally move the knife into the back or into the heart of the Ukrainian State, the Ukrainian nation, and share the money with each other. I want to finally say that. What happened in the hall today? Today, the majority voted in favour of Lithuania’s proposals because there is 131 articles and there is a paragraph 6 which states that if these proposals are not voted on, Lithuania has the right, i.e. the Head is not entitled to sign that law, a language that is not actually available. So, the honourable majority and the honourable Adam Ivanovich, we know all of your little things, but you have to understand that today you voted for a bill that doesn't exist. No one saw it in the second reading, no one considered it in an article 2,000 4 amendments and many, many others. And now I give Oleg the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u106	There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u107	None. Then I'll keep going. So, honourable national MPs, all of your gears, your thimbles, you have to finish them. If you think that you have a Handicap Constitutional Court and that it will save you all the time, the Constitutional Court will also find a badge. Because everyone knows that the rejection of amendments today by Lithuania and the fact that the Supreme Council did not resign it means that Lithuania will today sign the Language Act, which is not in nature. Bo, I'll tell you again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u108	We're discussing another issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u109	I'm done, I'm done. Which is not in nature, because there's no table, there's no article on this bill, and most importantly, this bill wants to argue with the Ukrainians on the left bank with the right, south and north, and it wants to argue with the citizens. Today people do not want war, today people want peace. That's why you're the fuel of war, not the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u110	Dear colleagues. Well, given the special merit before the Hare Parliament, he said what he wanted, but not on the subject. That's the first one. The other one. If you are so concerned about the problem you were talking about, instead of spilling tea with your colleague, you had to vote for the amendments you were talking about. And you deliberately didn't want to do it. And the third. I'm stressing for everyone again and again. Law 9073 was adopted in the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, that's what you think. Question completed. I would like to vote on the proposal to adopt an order of 10683-p repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 04.07.2012 on the adoption of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2012 as a basis and as a whole as a law. [[Registration number 10683]] The author of the bill is Yuri Karmazin. Please vote. [[12:02:37]] For 264 Thank you. It's been decided. Well then, since the next one is an alternative, there's no need to put it on. Let us turn to the issue of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the expenditure of the State Environmental Investment Agency of Ukraine]] [[Bill 11032 registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:03:19]] For 228 Supported. We have a report from the committee. Please, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović. Because it's a parliamentary bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u111	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 30 July, considered a bill amending the Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 at 11032. The purpose of the bill is to increase the resources to implement projects for targeted green investments through the use of the funds received under the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The implementation of such bills will reduce or limit greenhouse gas emissions, introduce energy-saving technologies, including the use of renewable energy sources. In order to achieve this goal, the bill proposes changes to the State Budget 2012 Act in part of the increase in development expenditure under a special fund of 231 million dollars for the State Environmental Investment Agency under the Budget Programme of 6351020, which provides State support for measures aimed at reducing emissions and increasing greenhouse gas removals. The source of such expenditure is proposed to determine the increase in the same amount of revenue of the Special Fund of the State Budget from the funds received under the Kyoto Protocol, by referring to the amount of such costs as the rate of conversion. In addition, in order to address current financial and economic issues, the State Environmental Investment Agency proposes to increase consumption expenditure by a total fund of 193,000 $300 under the Budget Programme 6351010 “Leading and Governance in the Field of Environmental Investment”. The source of such expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u112	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u113	An increase is proposed for the same amount of revenue from the General Fund of the State Budget for the added value of imported goods into Ukraine. The position of the bill is balanced by the income and expenditure of the state budget. As a result of the Committee's consideration, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill and the results of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the changes made in the Committee's letter, in particular. [[by registration number 11032]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u114	Thank you. Is there everything? Yes. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u115	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u116	If there are speakers, please sign in. Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u117	I'm asking you to give the floor to the non-frustrational Oleg Laszka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u118	Oleg Lasko is the leader of the Radical Party. Dear voters, right now Adam Martinyuk has just declared to the whole country that it's like this language bill that has torn apart the entire country, which has destroyed millions of people, as if this law has been passed. I want to make an authoritative statement that this information distributed by Martinyuk does not correspond to reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u119	By subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u120	By subject! On a topic that concerns the whole country, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u121	We're talking about environmental investments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u122	And we're going to talk about environmental investment. So who's going to make what kind of investments here, when you're incineratoring the country, you're going to split it by a language mark? There is no law! And when, comrade Martinyuk complains that I poured tea on him, breaking that vote, I'll tell you that's the least punishment you deserve. For the same anti-Ukrainian things to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u123	Please have the opportunity to comment on Bill 11032. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u124	You have no right to take away the opposition MP's word! You've usurped power in the country, you two! You're destroying the country! You take away the opportunity to speak Ukrainian! And you don't even let me say it. So I want to repeat this so that the whole country will hear that you don't have to be watered with tea, and you have to get your head turned around for the things you do! You're anti-Ukrainian people in fact. You get billions of credits, you take people's language, you send unemployed people out with your hand out. What do you do, Mr. Martinyuk? You live alone in a state prison, you get 20,000 dollars a month. When do millions of people receive 900 dollars of pensions? And you're telling us what to say? The topic is when you get out of here with your feet. Here's the theme. When millions of people come to Parliament, that'll be your theme. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u125	I'm sorry you're breaking your voice and nerves for nothing. Millions are not behind you, fortunately. I put to the vote a proposal by the Committee – to adopt as a whole the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 – on the expenditure of the State Agency for Environmental Investments of Ukraine, taking into account the Committee's proposals. Registration number 11032. Please vote. [[12:10:00]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. We're talking about ratifications. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement. Registration No.0266. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:10:08]] For -257. Offer supported. He will report on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Free Trade Zone Agreement, Prime Minister of Ukraine Mikola Janović Azarov. [[Registration No. 0266]] Please, Mikola Janovich, out of the way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u126	Dear National Deputies! You have before you the draft Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Free Trade Agreement. With the SND countries, we have active trade and economic cooperation. The trade between our countries is on the increase. Yes, in 2010, Ukraine’s trade with SND countries amounted to $51 billion. In 2011, this figure reached nearly $71 billion. Part of the SND countries in the outside? Ukraine’s trade volume exceeded 40 percent. For example, about 30 percent with the European Union. Therefore, the formation of a contractual base that will allow to ensure and, above all, to activate new qualities, to further increase the volume of mutual trade, will create favourable conditions for the free movement of Ukrainian goods, in full accord with the national interests of Ukraine. What benefits will Ukraine receive from the ratification of the Free Trade Treaty? First. The position of the articles of the new Treaty is based on WTO norms and rules. The other one. The Treaty clearly sets out all existing import and export duties between States today and has reached an agreement not to expand these lists and not to increase the rate of duty. It is common to hear complaints that Russia has established export duties on energy and on a number of other goods. Yes, indeed, that is the case. But there's a whole bunch of goods in Ukraine where export duties are set, and this list is quite large, which is reflected in appendix number one. What's important is that in this document, we finally legally fasten the export duty to the commodity positions that we've set up after joining the WTO. However, this was not foreseen by the current multilateral agreement on the SND Free Trade Area and bilateral agreements with the participating States. Third. The treaty sets out specific articles that will protect the interests of national producers and improve the conditions for access of Ukrainian products to the markets of participating States. Article 19 of the Treaty brings the solution of trade disputes for Ukraine solely into the scope of the procedure and mechanism adopted by the WTO. In particular, the parties may refer the dispute to the panel of experts, and they shall be established according to the procedure set out in Appendix 4 of the contract. Four. An important aspect on which I would also like to emphasise is the existence of article 7 of the separate position agreement on transit by pipeline, which was also proposed by the Ukrainian side. We have to develop and adopt a separate agreement within six months of the date on which the contract becomes effective. The government has already commissioned Minneergowil, along with other central authorities of the executive branch, to draft such a agreement. In addition, the treaty provides for the preparation of a number of other agreements, such as trade in technical regulations and technical regulations in accordance with WTO, phytosanitary and veterinary standards. But all of this is possible if the treaty becomes effective, including for Ukraine. As a result of the development of the economy in the explanatory documents, the contract is expected to increase the volume of trade in Ukraine with SND countries by more than a third, by 35 percent. This will also contribute to the country’s GDP growth. At the end of his speech as a person who was directly involved in the conclusion of a free trade agreement, I would like to point out that an effective area of free trade today is the optimal model for the interaction of member states. Above all, it will be an additional incentive to strengthen the competitiveness of Ukraine's economy. In view of the above, please support the Ukrainian President's draft law on the ratification of the free trade agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u127	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. From the committee the first deputy head of the Committee in foreign affairs, Czarnovil Taras Viacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Mikolo Yanovich! Colleagues national MPs! The committee held an emergency meeting on this subject this morning. But it wasn't the first time we had a committee. We gathered at least five times on this subject and listened to all interested parties without exception, all ministries, and, as a result, today the majority of the votes were not recommended by the committee to support the ratification of the agreement. The majority, the majority factions voted in favour of the other members of the committee, voted "against". But they came out of a variety of political issues, legal and economic, which.* are defined specifically in that covenant. We were in the early stages when there was such clear political politicization that we noted a number of problems in the treaty. First, we have noted that there are doubts about the legal frequency of signatures. Did the directives given for signing the agreement correspond directly to the text that was signed? The other one. This is also noted by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the uncalculated risk of loss. The accompanying documents contain only positives, everyone understands that such agreements are always compensated, and positives and negatives. The negatives are hidden, causing some doubts. Furthermore, the additions that provide for excluded restrictions for Ukraine are of a sufficiently critical and serious nature, restrictions and exclusions* that are carried out with more volume than these are derived from the principles set out in the WTO on such similar arrangements, and which in some ways are laid down by me in great international law. We are not the subject of the resolution of disputes in this court. We didn't ratify the agreement. In this case, we find ourselves in a legal community where and how all of our disputes with the parties to the treaty are to be considered. Only by the level of experts, as envisaged in this case, in this agreement. I'm literally asking for a few more seconds to finish. So aren't we limiting ourselves in this case to the possibility of filing with Russia in our disputes in the same Stockholm arbitration, or is there such a problem? There's no legal answer. And the main risk is due to the double right. the customs union member states, the treaty, and we see it from the additions, clearly gives priority to the Customs Union, the countries members of the Customs Union, their treaty, the Customs Union, over this treaty. How will this be applied, especially after the accession of the new countries of Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, which are also imposing quite large limits? Will these restrictions suddenly become restrictions in the same Russia as Ukraine? These questions, the other nuances that exist in this regard, have prompted most members of the committee to refrain from supporting the treaty. We're not saying that it's critical, we've noted that the Free Trade Agreement with the countries that are members of the SND of Ukraine is absolutely necessary, and we've simply decided by a majority of the votes on the committee that the text of the treaty does not fully perform the functions. Lastly, the Economic Policy Committee at its meeting supported its adoption. The main scientific and expert office makes a general conclusion that the Free Trade Agreement can be ratified, but there are plenty of observations and warnings in the text itself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u129	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Anatoly Kinach, please, Party of Regions. Get ready for Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u130	Dear Mikola Janovich, distinguished national MPs! The question that we are considering today is in the context of the strategic interests of our nation. Ukraine’s economy is export-oriented, and about 50 percent of Ukraine’s gross domestic product is formed by our exporters. Therefore, Ukraine’s policy in the context of a clear systematic promotion of Ukrainian economic interests, products and services, regardless of the direction of the West or the East, is of high importance. And this treaty is aimed at improving the conditions for Ukraine's cooperation on the basis of mutually beneficial partnerships, both in the West and in the East. I would like to draw the attention of the opponents to the fact that the SND Free Trade Agreement is practically entirely based on the principles of the World Trade Organization, which enables Ukraine to use civilised methods not only to be present in SND markets but also to protect issues of protection of national markets by relying primarily on international standards without political or economic pressure. And according to the content of the treaty, the national interests of Ukraine are fully in line. It's very important that we understand not only the additional possibilities, but the risks that are in every contract that relates to trade cooperation, investment. So after the ratification, I'm sure we'll need to pay attention to reducing the number of exceptions, creating conditions for protecting the internal market from counterfeit and smuggled products, etc., which requires the consolidation of our political will and the ability to work in the interests of the state. The faction of the Party of the Regions will support the draft law on the ratification of free trade in SND. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u131	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u132	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Prime Minister of Ukraine, I would like to address you. Does it satisfy you that you've had two minutes on the board? Two minutes on this issue, important to the state! It's a propaganda, agree with me. We can't ask you a question. We don't want to put down questions, we don't want to complicate our relationship with the Russian Federation, but we want a transparent, open, honest relationship that, unfortunately, we don't have. Because when you see that since 1994, we have a Free Trade Zone Agreement, but it is not executed by us, not by us, not by us, not by us, not by us, not by Ukraine, it is not being implemented because it is not ratified by our neighbors. First question. The second question. Please tell me someone can answer. I'm asking questions right now in the air because no one can answer, we have a reduced procedure, and this is the first step towards the Customs Union, where 68 percent of the votes will be in one country alone, in the Russian Federation. Finally, who's going to answer the question of why the financial and economic justification for the project is only about the positive effects on Ukraine's economy, and I welcome them very much because Ukraine's economy is in huge decline. Where is the information on the possible negative effects after the ratification? Where we have not fulfilled our agreements with the European Union and how much this threatens us. At least the answers would give us a third. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you have made your decision and you are responsible for shortening the consideration of this project, but credible political, legal, socio-economic, humanitarian risks that we are obliged to discuss and anticipate, and to warn. That's why I'm thanking the committee. I think it's best.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u133	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. In addition, Martinyuk did not make a decision, the decision on the shorter procedure was taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Regulation Act. Please, one minute. Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u134	Thank you, as opposed to the previous speaker, I want to say that the anti-government position of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is impressive, which must make such important and balanced decisions. I believe that those who voted against this bill were governed by political purpose, not the economic interests of our state. I would like to say that the law of Ukraine that we are considering is long-awaited. We know where our markets are, who doesn't, but they go to the supermarket and buy potatoes in the United States, cafes from Turkey, Spain and so on. And here, on the rostrum, you can cry as much as you want. And so, of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill. I don't understand how this hasn't happened yet. But the common people have long asked us to have a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u136	But the common people have long asked us to ratify the bill in the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u137	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a law on the ratification of a free trade agreement, please vote. [[Registration number 0266]] [[12:26:59]] For 260 Thank you. The law is passed. The treaty is ratified, and I welcome you. Let us consider the questions. The draft Law on Stimulating Investment in Priority Economics for the purpose of creating new jobs is a proposal to be considered by a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 11026]] Please vote. Don't relax, please. [[12:27:47]] For 228 And, dear colleagues, with some insisting on the break, let us vote on the proposal. You and I have four questions left, and we're gonna finish this session without a break. Please support this proposal. Please vote. [[12:28:16]] For 255 So we're working continuously until we're done with all the issues. I invite you to the floor of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergio Leonidovich Tihypco. Get ready for Platoon. Please, Sergey Leonidovich, 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u138	Dear National Deputies, the draft of the Ukrainian Act "Promoting Investment in Priority Economics for the purpose of creating new jobs" has been developed to implement the 2012 National Action Plan. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the activation of investment activities, the creation of new jobs and the development of regions by concentrating the State's resources on the priorities of economic development. The main tasks of the bill. During the period 2013-2032, government support for investment projects in priority areas of the economy, in addition to the mechanisms set out in the Ukrainian Investment Act, also recognizes the specificities of taxation of economic entities that implement investment projects in the priority sectors of Ukraine’s economy, as defined by the Tax Code and the Customs Codes of Ukraine. In order to receive State support, investments must be, through state registration, get government approval and meet the following criteria: investment of more than 3 million euros for large business entities, 1 million euros for medium-sized business, 500,000 euros for small businesses. The number of new jobs created that are directly involved in manufacturing processes exceeds 150 for large businesses, 50 for medium, 25 for small businesses. The average wage is not less than 2.5 times the minimum wage. In the event that the conditions are not met two years after the date of the registration, the investor will have to return all the benefits provided for in the bill. Suggestion: To support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Plednik's Alexy Vitaliovich from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u140	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 30 July 2012 discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Promoting Investment in Priority Economics, aimed at creating new jobs. Entered by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[the corresponding registration number 11026]] The aim of the bill is to introduce favourable conditions for investment in the priority sectors of Ukraine's economy in order to create new jobs, develop the infrastructure of depressed areas, increase the production of high-quality domestic goods and services, and create modern manufacturing, transport and market infrastructure. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded that the bill needed to be finalized. At the same time, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Investment in Priority Economics, with the aim of creating jobs as a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u141	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Please sign up. Please, Supper. Carmazine, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished people's deputies, the bill that was introduced into the Hall today, I believe it is historic for our country. Because foreign investors are waiting for the bill to be a guarantee of investment. And the Vice-Prime Minister, who has submitted a draft bill to us today, is generally in line with all European norms. And today I am responsible to state that many of the political forces that oppose us are telling us that we will be building a new economy tomorrow will introduce new laws, as opposed to what the Party of the Regions is doing today. Today we must invest in our country, we must create slavery places, and today we are creating this, and today we are doing it. I'm asking you to take that into account. And our economy will be based on small and medium-sized business, which is the basis of all economic activity and the advantage of our economy as a whole. Therefore, this bill should be supported in its first reading as a whole. There are a number of comments here. And I would like to reiterate that foreign investors are looking forward to this bill in order to invest in our country's economy. And the citizens of Ukraine today will receive jobs -- most importantly -- because there is a restructuring of macroeconomics in the world today, and we must keep pace with time. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u143	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Arjovetine, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we really have to make sure that there's State support for investment, and that's what all countries do. But before making such a large, large, tax regime, of course, there is a wide-ranging public discussion of these investment projects, which are called specific enterprises. And it's only then that the benefits are coming, and then there's even financial government support, even the refinancing of central banks. I think our choice is going a very different way. Among other things, international experience has been referred to today. True, not the entire enterprise, but the part of the income that is directed at the investment program. This is the main motivation for the benefits. We know that we don't have such a state-owned investment program where there's a clear definition of whether there's a sector or even an enterprise. The law states that the priority sectors of the economy are the sectors in which state policy on production development is implemented. It's just words, it's not a clear program. I think we all know that our country is highly corrupt. And as this law allows us today to allow officials on their own to decide whether to exempt an enterprise from income tax, to exempt the value added tax, or to exempt it from the payment of an import duty if the equipment is imported. I think we understand what a corrupt scheme is. This isn't our English version. I would also like to remind you that when laws write and refer to the euro, that is, this estimate unit, please tell us, how does our laws say "euro" dollar? We have our own money unit, the bracelet. So why are we using it again? So I think we need state support for investment, but not in this way, so I asked the authors to work on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u145	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, a bill to stimulate investment in the priority sectors of the economy with a view to creating new jobs. [[Registration number 11026]] Please vote. [[12:36:54]] For 261 Copy that. We are discussing the draft Law amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code of Ukraine on Taxing of Economics Subjects which implement investment projects in priority areas. [[Registration number 11027]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:37:35]] For 235 Supported. Reported by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergey Leonidovich Tihypco. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u146	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to pay attention to some points, because in a brief discussion, not everything is clearly said, but I would like to pay attention. We took into account the problems that we had in our time with free economic zones. So what these three bills provide: heading number one, first. Income tax benefits are only applied in terms of the amount of investment that has been invested in the project. This is the first position. That is, more than you've invested in the economy of Ukraine's income tax benefits, you won't get any. Second position. When we talk about these benefits, we have this notion of a special account, the money from these benefits, the income tax, they're involved in this special account, and they can be used exclusively in the project and in the repayment of project loans, that is, once. Second position. Tax on VAT is virtually nonexistent because there is a short - term bill, which is stipulated in this law for only 60 days. You drive the equipment, you get the benefits, you get the bill, you start paying for it in 60 days. The purpose of this bill, which we have proposed, is to create customs incentives to activate investment activities, create new jobs and develop the regions envisaged by Bill 1126. The project provides for a five-year exemption from the payment of import duties of equipment, equipment and kits related to the implementation of investment projects in priority areas of the economy. But here, I'd also like to pay attention, there's an exclusive release of the new equipment that goes into these projects, and that's what we want to stimulate the restocking of our businesses. And the second position is that only equipment that has no priority has no parallels in the economy of Ukraine. So this is where we protect.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u148	Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u149	Thank you. From the Committee of the Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich, please head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee considered a bill amending Chapter XXI, sorry, the Ukrainian Customs Code. These changes relate directly to the previous project, which has just been adopted as a basis, the Act on Stimulating Investment in Priority Economics in order to create new jobs. The introduction of amendments to the Customs Code provides for the de facto exemption from the entry point of equipment and equipment, as well as from the equipment imported into Ukraine to encourage businesses to create new jobs according to the previous bill. In support of the whole idea of the bill, the committee points out that the bill does not define the codes of the UTZ and thus allows other equipment, other goods, to be imported. So we think that the second reading needs to be followed up on this project and maybe determine what are the priority areas, which equipment should be imported. Of course, this equipment must be exclusive and not produced in Ukraine to ensure that there are no parallels to the production of such goods and equipment in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. The committee recommends the adoption of the bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u151	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Besides Carmazin, does anyone insist? Then sign up. Please, Evening Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, citizens of Ukraine, today, when we are considering investment bills, it is a pleasure just to say from this rostrum that they have demanded since 2010. And I would like to address Sergei Leonidovich Tigipko that these laws had yet to be passed in 2010. That would make it easier for us today to explain to the people how to develop our national economy. But it's so good that we're taking it today because today, a lot of problems in importing equipment into our country, all the obstacles are created by the Customs Committee. Therefore, the exemption from taxes on equipment and supplies needed to invest in production today is necessary. And I would like to ask everyone present to support this bill. The faction of the Party of the Regions will vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u153	Yes, Grivkowski does not insist. No, one minute of Carmazin, please, from a faction that's not registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u154	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I share the committee's opinion that the bill can be adopted in the first reading. But I'd like to make it clear on second reading that if we don't change anything, if we don't change it, if we adopt this kind of law, these entities that will import free imported customs, whatever equipment or assembly products that aren't produced and have no analogues in Ukraine and haven't been used. This means that Ukraine will remain a banana country forever. This is what it means, because there will be no incentive to produce them here in Ukraine, it's equipment, equipment and prefabricated products. They'll just be gone. It's an incentive. That's what we're trying to do, and then why encourage someone to produce here. As a result, I make such warnings. And I would like to say, in any case, this whole bill does not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u155	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, the draft Law amending section 21, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code on Taxation of Households, which implements investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy (registration No. 11027). Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. [[12:45:41]] For 260 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Taxing Characteristics of Household Subjects that Implement Investment Projects in Priority Economics, there's a proposal to consider the reduced procedure. [[Registration number 11028]] [[12:46:18]] For 238. Although respected colleagues, 11027 considered the bill to a different chapter, one bill, not two bills, was required. To waste more paper. Reported by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Tighipko Sergey Leonidovich. Get ready, Homutinik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u156	Dear people. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In fact, three laws need to be considered in the complex. We are thus trying to increase the number of jobs and contribute to economic growth in Ukraine. The main innovations of this bill are: between 2013 and 2022, a package of standard tax incentives is proposed for operators implementing investment projects in the priority sectors of the economy, which are fully in line with global practice, namely, exemption from income tax for the first five years – zero rate for the period 2013-2017, second, five years – eight percent for the period 2018-2022. Once again, I want to remind you that these benefits can only be for the amount of investment that the investor has invested in the economy of Ukraine. And the second. Accelerated depreciation of the main assets of the second and third groups used to implement the project. This is an accelerated depreciation of such positions as land improvements, buildings, buildings. This allows almost 10% faster to depreciate basic assets in the first 3-4 years of their exploitation. By January 1, 2018, VAT payments had been delayed for up to 60 days in the import of equipment, equipment, and tax bills. Income tax amounts that are not paid to the budget are expected to be charged to the Treasury Special Account and used exclusively to expand production volumes, upgrade equipment, introduce new technologies and return credits. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u157	Thank you. Yes. Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! These are interconnected projects. And what I'm going to say is that we couldn't really look at everything, as was suggested in a bunch of three bills. Because the adoption of amendments to the Tax Code and the Customs Code are only adopted by separate laws. This bill is intended to introduce a special tax regime for the added value tax, also on corporate income tax. This is about a zero tax on profit for 5 years, and the next 5 years the company will pay 50%, that is 8%, not 16%, as it will be in 2018. A bill is also introduced under VAT, in fact VAT is not released, but it is possible to calculate the bill, which will actually be counted to the company for 60 days. The committee also recommends that the bill be drafted and that the second reading be further developed along with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u159	Thank you. Please sign up. Yes, please, Fedun. Don't insist. Arjovitin. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear voters! Ukraine takes first place in the world by the number of taxes and congregations. 138 taxes and congregations I think that for every normal person, especially for those small entrepreneurs who lose their jobs every month for thousands of years, because I travel through markets a lot, I talk to people, whether Mr. Tihypco, instead of sitting in a soft chair, I go to people in any market, or Hmelnicki or Winnice, and I tell those women who trade milk, the letter of milk three bracelets, and they ask for 100 bracelets a day for cities, and plus racketeers, plus militia, plus tax dollars. Please tell the miserable grandmothers who can't sell 30 pounds of potatoes, what you eat a raspberries of 670 pounds per kilogram. Tell the entrepreneurs who need to walk for 2-3 years to get permission to set up a small kiosk or a small workshop. How can these people make a living? Clearly, you have provided for yourself, both yourself and your children, and your grandchildren. And when are you going to make the lives of millions of Ukrainian citizens who don't have business, who don't have banks, who don't have jobs, oligaric families, and so on? And you don't give them life because you don't know if you want what you need. You're getting rich. We have an oligarchic state, when you get rich, billions of dollars a year you earn and protect these billions. And in order to create jobs, you really need very simple things. A radical reduction in taxes and tax rates, a radical change in monetary policy, so that small businesses have the opportunity to borrow 5 percent and set up their own business, not under 25 now. And a radical restriction on Ukraine's access to imports. So that the Ukrainian people don't choke on Egyptian potatoes, Chinese Greeks, Turkish cucumbers, tomatoes, and sell ours and feed the whole world. This is what our country needs. If you don't understand, go away.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u161	The bill is closed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading the draft Law amending Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of taxation of economic operators that implement investment projects in priority areas of the economy. [[Registration number 11028]] Please vote. [[12:53:15]] For 264 Decision taken. And let's go to chapter two. We're looking at a bill amending the Law on Mortgage Bonds. [[on the release and circulation of mortgage bonds]] [[Registration number 10282]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The second reading of the Bill on Mortgage Bonds included five proposals. They're all accounted for or accounted for editorially or partially. Including the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers are taken into account and taken into account in an editorial manner by the national deputy Karmazin. The bill is therefore ready to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u163	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, five amendments, are considered or considered editorially. No one insists that they be voted on? Then please. What, Arjevitin? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. On August 2nd, the whole country is going to celebrate the Day of the Paratrooper, and, you know, these guys in the blue berets and calfs on their shoulders took Afghanistan out. Our motto is no one but us! Let me say hello for you to these glorious fellows, the paratroopers, and the glory of the DVD! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-30-m0.u165	I am voting on the proposal to adopt the second reading and generally as a law amending the Law on Mortgage Bonds, registration number 10282. [[on the release and circulation of mortgage bonds]] Please vote. [[12:55:33]] For 237 Thank you. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions that were scheduled for discussion at the next session of the sixth vocation are all under consideration. Pursuant to article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the 11th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 4, 2012. I declare the sixth call of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. [[The Moon of the Hymn of Ukraine]] Good-bye.
