ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:34]] There were 418 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the national deputies of Ukraine, Alexander Burjak and Zoe Shishkina. I ask our colleagues to welcome them to health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on May 22nd. 68 issues of the agenda have been addressed. As a result of their consideration, 4 laws and 9 regulations were passed, 17 bills were adopted on the basis of which 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 4 bills and 2 draft regulations were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are scheduled Wednesday for statements by national deputies with statements, reports, and information. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Ramez, faction of the People's Party. Who will act?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u2	People's Party. Please pass the word to Spaku Vasil Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u3	Vasil Shpak. Please, your performance. Sergey Gordienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! In recent times, the question of the making of an inheritance has become relevant especially to people living in rural areas. To form an inheritance on a land plot, a house, and so forth, requires dozens of different forms of help. Each one has to pay a reasonable amount. The cost of the aid is determined by the organizations for their consideration, where differences in different areas can reach up to 100 percent. In notaryus, the value of services under the so - called agreement of the parties, which is allowed by law, is determined in the amount of up to 2,000 dollars. Thus, in the setting of an inheritance for the house and the land pie, the resident of death. Lithuanians of the Hmelni district paid for the application submitted to the notary office, 360 bracelets, and then another 1,000 32 bracelets for the notarial office, 280 bracelets for the land office, 420 bracelets for the BTI, 1 thousand 200 bracelets for the private score, and 580 bracelets for the other directions together. She also paid 800 dollars for every 10 square feet [10 sq m] of housing. Together, the cost of the work was 8,000 dollars. The cost of the house itself is much lower. The payment procedure takes up to a year and a half, with a person visiting the district or district center several times. Of course, the heir’s documents and the right to receive an inheritance must be given in full. And here's the order in which they are received and priced for them, and they need to be organized in a timely manner, both at the time of receipt, at the place of processing and at the cost. In view of these facts, I believe that the Ministry of Justice needs to establish the simplest, rational and most convenient choice for people to have an inheritance. It is my view that it is appropriate to give the rural councils the right to conduct notarial actions. At the same time, after applying to the village council and paying the duty no more than the average monthly minimum wage in Ukraine, which remains in the budget of the village council and within three months should receive an inheritance document. This rule will also allow the village councils to bear witness to other agreements between natural and legal persons. Such practices take place in neighbouring European countries. I request that you consider the MP's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u5	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u6	The Honourable Chairman, colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, has just received a report from the faction of the Company of Ukraine that there has been a debt of 34 million dollars at the government factory of Shevchenka in Kharkiv, beginning in 2008. For 27 months, workers are paid no salary at all, an unprecedented event. And we draw the attention of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Attorney General of Ukraine. It's a state factory. Next. Under Ukraine’s laws and regulations, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has arranged for free and extended medical leave under medical prescriptions in case of outpatient treatment of certain groups of the population under certain categories of illness. Costs associated with the cost of medical supplies are charged to health authorities at the place of residence where they are released. Members of the Ukrainian Company's faction have received many appeals from citizens about the fact that local executive authorities have given oral instructions to the management of hospitals not to write prescriptions for the treatment of people with disabilities who are entitled to this under Ukrainian law. Not enough, at citizens’ personal receptions, executive heads cynically claim that they have not written and will not write, for there is no cost. To buy these drugs, go and beg. That and all the social initiatives. This is a source of resentment for people with disabilities, poor pensions, social assistance, and a failure to make ends meet. Particularly acute is this problem for families with disabled children, for whom daily medication is a condition of life, and such medicines at their cost are not available to them. As a result, many simply die. People rightly point out that no previous authorities have allowed themselves to do so, and that this is a cynical form of accelerating the extinction of our population that has been introduced. The closure of hospitals in rural areas and the excessive cost of medicines is making it worse. In view of the above, I am forced to address this problem and ask Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, Rajis Vasilovna Vassilová to give the commission to study and solve this acute problem. One form of solution is the provision of free medicines to local budgets for targeted subsidies for the provision of premium categories. Strict requirements must be made for local and executive authorities to ensure primary and immediate medical care. I request this statement and, regarding the first problem, send it to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General's Office, for payment of the wage at the name factory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u8	At the Chewchenka State Factory in Kharkiv. And to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health about the provision of medicines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u9	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT" faction. My colleague, School, is transferring the right to speak. Davidenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u10	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The issue of the liberation of the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, Yulia Timoshenko and other political prisoners, remains key to the "BUT-" faction. Today, 264 days have passed since Julia Volodymyrna is behind bars and has been confined to bed for more than 7 months because of her illness. We think what's happening to Timoshenko is revenge on her, the political power she is leading, and more than 11 million citizens who have supported her in the presidential election, tens of millions of those who are sympathetic and supportive of her today. Thank God, that's what Ukraine understands, that's what the world understands. The government has chosen torture as a tool of vengeance. This term in Ukraine has a specific legal definition: torture is inhuman, something that degrades the human dignity of conduct or punishment. Unlawful imprisonment, deprivation of the right to protection, deprivation of the right to medical examination and treatment for a long period of time, an unprecedented 12-hour trial in a detention cell without interruption and witnesses, granting painkillers solely if they agree to participate in the investigation, violating seven criminal cases, inflicting bodily harm, is certainly torture. There's torture, so there are catas, and we'll call their names later. These events have been adequately addressed by international institutions. The international isolation of Ukraine is becoming a reality. At the same time, the Ukrainian Parliament has self-delivered from its responsibility for the process in the state and, unfortunately, is moving into the centre of presidential politics. The majority dialogue with the opposition is missing. The law of power is not the force of law in Parliament. Europe has made clear demands on Ukraine: harmonising criminal legislation with European standards, releasing political prisoners. On the initiative of our faction, on February 16th, the Bill of Victor Sweden on this subject was registered. Most continue to block it methodically, as well as 6 previous ones. Don't most people understand that every next day Timoshenko is behind bars is the irreparable loss of power of the Ukrainian Parliament? And if there are no 7 cases against Timoshenko, and 27 more cases, and she's going to be declared a serial killer, a member of the Reichstag fire or a leader of the Somali pirates, no one will be surprised. If so, the only way to remain in power is to increase repression and total terror. And not just in terms of opposition. Dear majority, are you ready for this? Ladies and gentlemen! Go to the Beakowian Forest and cool your heads, think about it! As long as there's time and you haven't crossed the last line, stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u11	Microphone, please. John the Rabbit, a colleague of Davidenko, has the right to speak. The next will be the Teeth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u12	Dear National Deputies! Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. Tomorrow there is a bill on the principles of State - language politics No. 9073. I'm already calling on the MPs on no condition to vote in favour of this bill. Why did he show up? Some national MPs believe that the bill has come to distract our citizens from the failures of social policy and economic policy. Actually, the problem is deeper. The two provocateurs who submitted the bill want to set Ukraine on fire today, disengage citizens, separate the region from the regions, and thus rule in Ukraine. You have to understand that today, legislation in force has established a status quo that satisfies both Ukrainian and Russian-speaking. No one today is infringing on Russian language. What we are, in fact, is this bill that you want to destroy the nationality of the Ukrainian language, and you want to deprive Ukrainians of the most important value of being today is the Ukrainian language. So you do it consciously and there's nothing to cover up with different papers and other things. Your job is to challenge the provocateurs to set Ukraine on fire today. I want to talk to the Ukrainian Patriots who are in the Party of Regions that are in the Block of Lithuania. Do not be Ukrainians in which the house is from the land. After all, understand that these are things of being a nation, that these are things of being a Ukrainian state. If you bow your head to those two provokers, if you don't speak against this bill at your faction meeting, you'll be like whoever's stealing and whoever's holding the ladder. The thief is not only the one who steals, but also the one who holds the ladder. But you were convinced that when you were creating a parliamentary majority, you would not bring into this room questions that would disengage Ukrainians who would direct the region to the region. But what do you do in practice? In practice, you're doing a different policy, you're launching your interrelationship not only in this room, you're running it among our citizens, in the middle of our Ukraine. Is that the main question today? This issue is resolved today by both the Constitution and other bills. But what you do is you do very badly and do bad things to Ukraine. You've put Ukraine to sleep and you want to wake it up in the fire, that's not gonna work. So once again, I'm talking to the patriots and the Ukrainians who are in the faction of the Party of Regions and BUIT. If you vote in favour of this bill, you won't get any votes in the elections in the center or in the north or in the west of Ukraine, you'll be cursed by your parents and your children. You must understand that you are reaching for the greatest value of the Ukrainian nation. This is our land, this is our state, and we will not give it to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u13	Valentin Zubov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up will be Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u14	Valentin Zubov, political party of the People's Trade Union of Ukraine. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! I wish to dedicate my statement today to one of the most pressing challenges for Ukraine today. For 14 years now, as a national and as a citizen, I have been able to observe the progressive, targeted, continuous deterioration of Ukrainian-Russian relations. I am a Ukrainian citizen, but I do not care what happens today in our policies. Certain forces have targeted policies to scale up the deterioration of relations between Russia and Ukraine. See how the media responded to Russia's proposal to join the Eurasian Union. I do not wish to comment on the details of this issue. I know that such an attitude is ironicly condescending to the national interests of Ukraine, because those people who do everything to make this relationship worse do not understand what is happening in today's world. We still haven't learned to see beyond our noses. And the real situation in the world is that modern civilization is slowly but steadily going down. This is because the natural food resources under which modern civilization operates are being eliminated, reduced. And if you, dear friends, think that as this problem develops, the United States and the European Union will help us, you are deeply mistaken because in the next 50 years the problem of food survival will be one of the most relevant in the world. Thus, the Slav peoples: Russia, Belarus, Ukraine must do their utmost to return to unity and to represent themselves in the international arena, a very powerful instrument of influence on international politics, and help each other to solve these problems. I'm talking about this because it's an objective process that Ukraine needs, it's not because Ivanov, Petrov or the Teeth says. I understand we've already heard the case in 1991, we'll give the land to the peasants. They gave up and destroyed the village as a result, but those who have done so are sitting, eating in this room, without having to deal with the problems facing the village and Ukraine today, which is losing fertile land, is losing natural resources and is losing the village as a whole. I think dear friends, and I appeal to our voters, the People's Labour Union of Ukraine will do its utmost to reunify Russia, Ukraine and Belarus. And we call on our voters to vote only for those in the party programme.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u15	Mikola Kulczynski, please. Commits the right to speak. Next is Marina Perestenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u16	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished Ukrainians! Once again, before the election, the vast majority of them are seeking to approve their electorate by means of the Language Law. For 20 years, this map has been regularly played as the first item of these: "Separate and rule," because dividing by language is the easiest thing to do in a multinational Ukraine. But whether it is so innocent is the bill proposed by Kiwalov and Koleshnenko’s deputies, the draft Law on the Principles of State Language Policy. In his detailed study, you're wondering how the Ukrainian Parliament's 21st year of Ukrainian independence can be abused by the state language. If the first six articles are simply sinning with novels that such respected lawyers as the drafters of the bill would not seem to have the right to allow, starting with article 7, they are actually destroying Ukrainian as a national language in Ukraine. The term "regional language" is introduced, which means Russian, which will be completely replaced by national language. This bill is designed to change the language from Ukrainian to Russian in all spheres of social life to 13 from the 27 administrative and territorial units of Ukraine. This is clearly stated in the explanatory note to the bill. Thus, the undisputed presence of the fifth column in the Supreme Council, which systematically and persistently produces anti - Ukrainian laws, becomes evident. This is already the second similar bill. We, the Ukrainian National Deputies, had the honour and conscience to not vote in favour of the first bill, but it is now clear that by means of the method of whipping and spraying, the majority of us gained the required number of votes if the bill is scheduled for consideration on Thursday. Why else do I say that? What is the fifth column? Is there any other way to explain the fact that this issue is envisaged immediately after the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation ruled on the liquidation of the General Russian civil society organization "United Ukraine in Russia"? Last year, 71 national deputies from the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc signed their signature to demonstrate their commitment to the protection of the national status of Ukrainian language and their commitment not to support the adoption of laws that restrict its public application. Today we confirm this position. We also urge other national MPs, regardless of which political party they belong to, to prevent any other abuse of Ukrainian in an independent Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And the rest of my time, I ask you to give it to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u17	Please. I'd like to ask my respectable colleague not to do that, first of all, because there's no such thing to pass on part of the time. Please, 30 minutes, John the Rabbit. One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u18	Okay. One second. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, I have spoken, I wanted to call on the Block of Vladimir Litvin, and I have actually called for BUT. I am convinced that BUT will not vote that it protects these issues. So I apologize. And I'm going to the Party of Regions and to the Party of the Block of Lithuania, not to hurt myself and my country and my people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u19	And I, the honourable national deputies, urge John the Rabbit to think about himself, to come to work all the time, and not to give money to others. Anyone who votes or does not vote is another matter. You take care of yourself in your office, and then you'll be fine. Marina Perestenko. I'm telling you, get your shit together. Valerius Beales. So you're sitting here in this session hall for 22 years, 22 years you're getting dressed, and you're going to the country. Please. Sit there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u20	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The National Deputies of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the National Committees, are convinced that many of you are very often approached by citizens who are found to have been victims in criminal matters of violation of their constitutional rights and compensation for the moral and property damage caused by crimes committed against the life and health of the person who has wrongly settled these matters, as well as the necessity of enacting a law on compensation for the alleged damage at the expense of the State. It should be noted that on April 8, 2005, Ukraine was signed, but the European Convention of 24.11.1983 on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crime was not ratified. In fact, today the only mechanism for redressing damage in Ukraine remains the presentation of a civil suit against the perpetrator of the crime. For the purpose of a more perfect study of the problem, we have examined the relevant statistics and provided the legal and judicial authorities with information on the crimes committed against such a category of citizens. In particular, during 2010 and 2011, 37,000,841 crimes against life and health have been reported, including 5,000,826 deaths. Regrettably, there is no provision in the appropriate forms of accountability for the processing of information on the status of enforcement of court decisions on compensation for victims by the State enforcement authorities. At the same time, according to information provided by the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on January 1, 2012, the total number of convicted persons charged according to the court’s judgments is over 33,000 and the amount claimed is over 529 million. In the near future, we will propose a draft law to provide for the creation of an appropriate fund to compensate victims in criminal matters for the damage they have suffered at the expense of the State. In addition, the idea of creating such a foundation is supported by the power of government. Regrettably, today there is a situation in which the European Court of Justice is approached by an extremely large number of people, and to this day there are 10,000, 250 applications. So I think it would be absolutely logical for us to set up such a fund and carry out our obligations to citizens, not through the European Court of Justice, but through the capabilities of our state. This will raise the authority of the state in the international arena and in the middle of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u21	Thank you, too. Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vasutin will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u22	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense", Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, I was summoned to this rostrum by a note in our parliamentary newspaper, Voice of Ukraine, entitled "The Ukrainian Organizations Banned in Russia." Journalist writes: "The Supreme Court of the Russian Federation passed a decision on the liquidation of Ukrainian organizations in Russia and the Federal National Cultural Autonomy "The Ukrainians of Russia", which brought together 67 regional Ukrainian societies. Reason. The reporting form of the Ukrainian-Citizen organizations does not meet the standards. Interestingly, bureaucratic reporting is a threat to nuclear-nuclear Russia, and a civilisation could be made, legal aid could be provided, and a warning could finally be declared not to close. No, close the dot. In fact, Ukrainian organizations were eliminated for the organization of the Holocaust in Ukraine, for the conference "Ukrainenism in Russia". History, state, developmental trends." The Kremlin was destroyed because it did not want to have Ukrainian organizations in Russia to unite ethnic Ukrainians. In my youth, as a student of the National University, I spent four seasons in the new building of Siberia, creating a fuel-energy complex in Russia. He built roads and shops in Sakhalin. Today, when our neighbors are conducting such a policy, I want to ask them all about Ukrainian citizens: Do our neighbors adhere to a friendship, mutual cooperation and assistance agreement in 1999? Article 12 of this treaty, which is an act of internal legislation both in Ukraine and in Russia, says that the high contracting parties guarantee the right of persons belonging to national minorities to exercise fully their human rights and fundamental freedoms, to exercise them without discrimination in conditions of full equality before the law. High contracting parties will contribute to the creation of equal opportunities and conditions for learning the Ukrainian languages of the Russian Federation and the Russian language in Ukraine, the preparation of pedagogical skills for teaching these languages in educational institutions, and will be provided with equal public support for this purpose. Can you give an example that there is at least one Ukrainian education school in Russia? You can't find her with a match. So I also want to say that Russia is in violation of one of the conceptual principles of international law, namely respect for human rights, which is enshrined in the Final Act of the 1975 European Cooperation Security Council. And to conclude, I want to say one more thing: Article 12 of this law, which is called the Constitution of Ukraine, says that States, the Ukrainian State, care about the satisfaction of the national and cultural and linguistic needs of Ukrainians living outside the country. In this regard, please form my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and ask how our foreign policy department has taken steps to prevent discrimination against our fellow countrymen in Russia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u23	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. Among the most important foreign political events of the last time, I will celebrate the participation of the President of Ukraine in the NATO summit in Chicago from 20 to 21 May, as well as the visit of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mikli Azarov, to Brussels for the purpose of participating in the 15th meeting of the Council on Co-operation between Ukraine and the EU. With the announcement of Ukraine's non-block status, the relationship between Kiev and NATO has been rid of politicization and has acquired a trait of pragmatic and constructive interaction. In its framework at the Chicago summit, Ukraine announced its intention to increase its contribution to the implementation of the NATO Lisbon Strategy from the completion of the military operation in Afghanistan. In particular, Kiev took such initiatives. First. Continued cooperation in the use of strategic transport aircraft to complete military operations in Afghanistan. The other one. Conscription of Ukrainian personnel by military aviation instructors Third. Joining the "The Coalition of Loyal Contributors" initiative. And the last. Expanding the training project for Afghan and Central Asian professionals who specialize in the fight against illicit drug trafficking. These initiatives received a positive assessment from the leaders of NATO member countries, which was reflected in the summit summary document. The Chicago Summit has become a beautiful venue for the President of Ukraine to host a series of bilateral meetings, including with the leaders of Poland, Turkey, Romania, Azerbaijan and Afghanistan. The results of the President of Ukraine's negotiations with the leading U.S. oil and gas companies Exxon Mobil and Chevron are important in terms of energy diversification. In particular, arrangements for American companies to participate in the development of gas - efficient areas in Ukraine. Speaking of a working visit by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to Brussels as his direct participant, I will observe a positive, trusting tone of communication between the European side and the Ukrainian delegation. The European Union marked the progress of Ukraine in implementing reforms. In particular, the new Criminal Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Civil Association Act received a positive assessment. It was important to discuss the liberalisation of the visa regime of Ukraine, the European Union. The European Union commended the Ukrainian authorities on their efforts in this area, and European Commissioner Stefan Fuele promised to consider and resolve all comments on the work of the EU member states' visa authorities. During the summit, special attention was paid to discussing the humanitarian side of the Timoshenko case. The head of government noted the Ukrainian party's willingness to ensure that Mrs. Timoshenko's rights were fully respected during the cassation process and invited European lawyers to participate in the process.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the time for the performance has come to an end, unfortunately. Time is up, unfortunately. Well, one minute, please. One minute, please, then. Well, please, I say one minute. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, when the red light's on, it's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! Recently, Deputy Attorney General Renat Kuzmin stated that Yulia Timoshenko was involved in the murder of Eugene Scherbian. This 16-year-old case is cynically sewn to the leader of the opposition, realizing that the reaction of the world's society to the fabricated by Yanukovich's team, the so-called "gas business" is dangerous to Ukraine, and that the threat of total international isolation with all its consequences, Janukovich, "partners" invent all the new and new criminal tales of Yulia Timoshenko. The animal’s fear of Julia Volodymyrna’s coming out and taking part in political life is doing this today, which has actually reached the point of absurdity and marasm with those who are preparing such matters. In 1996, when a national deputy was shot, businessman Eugene Szczerbán and his wife were shot in the airport of Donetsk, the case was opened, and only now, after finding the victim in the person of Yulia Timoshenko, the prosecutor’s office was moved. From 1995 to 1998, they became believers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u26	Thank you. Ten seconds. Well, what I'm going to finish is 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u27	No! No! This is important because there were both entrepreneurs and journalists and politicians killed in Donetsk! And who was in charge of the Donetsk region? Mr. Janukovic is the head of the administration. Who was in charge of law enforcement? Those who now run them in Ukraine. That is why we demand the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the issues set out in the May 23rd schedule. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on International Road Transport is under review. Cyprus, Cyprus, said. If there is no objection, let us consider this in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[10:35:33]] For 197 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u29	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, you have been presented with the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on International Road Transport. The agreement deals with issues related to international passenger and freight transport by means of vehicles registered in the territory of one of the contracting parties. Ratification of the agreement will contribute to the revitalization of bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus, the establishment of new links between subjects of entrepreneurial activity in both countries, and the increased role of Ukraine in international road transport. Given that the implementation of the terms of the agreement will create the conditions for activating the process of bilateral international relations between Ukraine and the Government of Cyprus, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u30	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich, you too. Have a seat, please. Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u31	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on International Road Transport, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, national deputies, members of the committee came to the conclusion that the ratification of the agreement was primarily aimed at creating and operating a reliable international legal mechanism for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and the Republic of Cyprus in the field of international road transport. The Committee on European Integration has recognised the draft legislation as not contrary to Ukraine's international and legal obligations and to the European Union's legislation. In addition, the approval of the project will contribute to the completion of the internal procedure for the acquisition of a valid agreement under Ukrainian law. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which stresses that this agreement can be ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, the report and the report are done. If there is a need to comment on this draft law, please register. National Deputy Kravchuk Vasil, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u33	I now give the floor to Steshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u34	Please, Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Oleg Zarubinski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u35	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! I'm not going to take the time, at least no more than the lead reporter, so modestly speaking about this ratification document. The Yulia Timoshenko faction – "The Fatherland" is very close to all the ratification documents, and the analytical center is working quite responsibly. And I have to say that we realize that following the successful functioning of the financial system, the transport system, its development, the branching takes second place for the successful functioning of any country's economy. But in this case, we need to remember one serious thing. In his time, Prime Minister Mikola Azarov claimed that in the end, the new elected authorities would make a balanced decision, and we would stop the operation of the Cypriot offshore zone. That's why, by supporting this document, we're going to prolong our activities in this offshore zone and thus we're going to give up our previous political, maybe political, but still commitment. The faction responsibly states that this ratification document will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u36	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u37	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, I have a deal in my hands that we are about to ratify, so I have absolutely no reason to talk about anything. This is the text of the covenant, the text of the covenant says nothing about what has just been said. This is about car transportation. The one studying international law knows that such agreements between Ukraine and other countries are of a framework character. This means that it is not exclusive. This means that Ukraine has reached certain agreements with a particular country on road transport and we offer to ratify this agreement. Well, most of all, I'm not going to say, I like it, but I think the most important thing here is articles 6 and 7 about freight, because it's not about tourism, it's about economic development and the economic relationship between our countries. I think that the national parliament should support an improved economic relationship with any country, more with the country of Europe. But I would like to emphasize to someone else who has drafted this text of the agreement and agree with the scientific and expert management's point of view on what should be given in the accompanying documents. I mean, it's not selective to approach -- it's what you have under your hands, and you're bringing it into Parliament, and everything you're talking about. See, the Explanatory Note states that "there is agreement with the relevant authorities." [[She's right in front of me.]] Where's the help? Where are the documents of this agreement? This should be in accompanying material. It's a rule. One second. It is noted that this project has been concluded by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Where is this conclusion? Where is the meaning of this conclusion? People’s deputies, when deciding on ratification, should see what is the conclusion of how positive it is, what is being observed there, and so on. Please pay attention to such things. They are important. It's a deal, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u38	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u39	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You know, the hurry we're in today's ratification of the document that was signed, actually introduced in April-month, is about that. I don't think it's that simple. The problem is that there is indeed a problem around the denunciation of the Soviet Union’s Double Tax Agreement with Cyprus, which for 20 years has never been able to be resolved within the walls of Parliament. Just our cadence, as I recall, was trying to figure out maybe 4 or 5 of this question, but unfortunately, there were always arguments in the hall to keep it from being removed. [[For My Memory]] So in some way, we need to offer other ways of cooperating with Cyprus and solving other issues. Because, for example, I don't really understand what transit transports through Cyprus can be like. Cyprus is an island. And I don't know how Ukrainian transport would go to Europe through Cyprus. He can somehow, let's say, get to Cyprus, I can understand that, but that doesn't require a special framework agreement, because there's a deal with the European Union. And I remind you that Cyprus is, just in case, a country that is part of the European Union. But given that until the issue of the denunciation of the Soviet Union's free tax agreement has been resolved, the position of our faction remains unchanged. We insist that any agreement concerning Cyprus can only be considered once this fundamental one is resolved and it seems to me that there is a very important issue that has been declared by the authorities so much. It's time to solve it today, so let's do it in a bag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, no one ever insists on discussing this issue again? So we're done here. Dear colleagues, I should have said, after the hearings of the people's deputies were completed, that on the basis of the proposals, the requirements that were made in the speeches, the Secretariat should have prepared the corresponding assignments, that's the first time. Secondly, with regard to this issue, my dear fellows, unfortunately, we are all talking about the need for denunciation of this, but here, in the session hall, you know how many people's deputies are not to be blamed for being most of them, there was a draft law on the fact that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is prohibited from taking legislative initiatives on the denunciation of treaties, which, by the way, is a gross violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly defines what a national MP can't do: to legislate, draft state budget law, everything else is the right of the national deputy. And I signed a petition to the Constitutional Court, an explanation that this law is worthless and that it cannot be accepted. So, dear fellows, let's all take responsibility for accepting them. For making such decisions, we will not continue to allow them, for we circumcise the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine all together and a little. And now, honourable colleagues, the motion for a committee to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Crete is being voted on. Cyprus on international road transport. [[I'm sorry again.]] [[Registration number 0250]] Please vote. [[10:46:59]] For 261 The law is passed. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on joint production of films is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0253]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[10:47:36]] For 225 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Culture, Yuri Petrovich Bogicki. The reporter is Stepan Volodymyrovich Kurpil. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u41	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on joint production of films has been prepared in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts and has resolved the need for ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on joint production of films. This Agreement not only opens up the opportunity for Ukrainian and French producers to produce films together, it will also contribute to the development of film education, the exchange of footage, and joint cinematography. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and supported by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u42	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Stepan Volodymyrovich, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u43	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill proposes to ratify the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on joint production of films, signed on 14 May 2011 in Kanna. The terms of the agreement provide for the granting to films that have the status of joint production films of all the benefits provided for in cinematography legislation in the territory of the States of the parties to the agreement. Ratification of the agreement will contribute to the restoration and development of film production in Ukraine, as well as to the expansion of partnerships between Ukraine and the French Republic in the field of cinematography, which in turn will give impetus to the development of cultural and economic ties between the two nations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration at its meeting considered the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. Our committee's decision is in line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs and in matters of culture and spirituality. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for an exchange of information regarding this document. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u45	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, any cooperation in this area we need to support, but not all of us. With the French, we can do it, with the Russians, we can't. Because more than 10 films have recently been produced in Russia, which are forging the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people, who are showing Ukrainians to be imperfect from the point of view of intelligence, people who are engaged in only criminal activity, or who are directly committing crimes on the screen. In this way, we have become a nation of apostates in the eyes of Russian cinematographers today. So today we have to play, really, historical truth, and the French are outstanding in the film industry, we know both the old French movie and the modern French movie. So I fully support the idea of such cooperation. I think this cooperation could be with other European countries, including Italy, which has created a whole range of good movies, and with other countries. But once again, most of the time today, this co-operation is only going around Russia. Even some of the Ukrainian directors who made the films turned out to be anti - Ukrainian films, both Bortko and others. There in Bortko, for example, how could it be allowed for the Cossacks to call for a king for a father to go? This is the father-in-law Peter and Catherine's mother, who destroyed Sich, who broke the reins of the Ukrainian people, the Cossacks. Thus, for some reason, our authority actively draws us to cooperate with the Russian film studios and leaves or refuses to work. That's why we're going to support this bill. And God willing to let us make good movies with the French. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u47	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, would like to take a look at this agreement and in terms of who it actually is signed with. For no one is the secret that the French cinematographer understands this, I realize that the perception of a cinematographer is subjective enough. But both experts and viewers consider French cinematographers to be almost the best in the world. The fact that it's the best in Europe is true, and some say it's the best in the world. Against the backdrop of that mess that is flooding Ukraine today, really a mess from different countries, just cooperating with the better cinematographic country will enable Ukraine to develop its cinematographer and more, to move it to the international market. Including, and in terms of economics, from a commercial point of view. So the agreement is very detailed: both in the administrative context, both in the financial context, and in the organizational context. I don't think there's any objection to its ratification. The People's Party faction will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u48	Ruslan Knyazevich, faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u49	I ask Karpuk Volodymyr Grigorovitch to pass the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u50	Vladimir Karpuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u51	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". We support the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic. And we believe that this agreement may contribute to a thorough study of French legislation, where domestic production and film production are protected. For example, French legislation provides that if foreign production films are shown in movie theaters, such as the protection against Hollywood movies, moviemakers pay 20 percent of the cost of renting to the film industry development fund. And so, of course, there's this state-of-the-art attention to film production and it helps because French filmmaking is really one of the best in the world. That's why we support and particularly ask the Ministry of Culture to pay attention to being able to protect ourselves from the same Russian films like "Match-2", "We from the Future-2" and others where leading Ukrainian actors play anti-Ukrainian roles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u52	Yes, please, Chechetov. The speech was made by Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Well, I don't understand how there's going to be a diametric declaration about Europe, about European integration, about the European perspective, with what's proposed? What's the suggestion? The following is proposed. To guide an artist's hand, to paint! It is suggested that the music be directed by a musician to write what music to play. To direct a writer's hand, to write a novel, or whatever it is, yes. Where are we going?Oh, my God! Therefore, the Party of Regions, which leads Ukraine to Europe, advocates freedom of art for artists, musicians, poets, writers! In this is the bloom of Ukraine! The law proposes ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u54	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The committee proposes to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. The same thought was expressed by the national MPs. A motion for approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the French Republic on the joint production of films is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:56:59]] For 374 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider a number of draft laws regarding their inclusion in the agenda. Announcing the inclusion in the agenda of the project. Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to pay attention. Unfortunately, for an hour or so, a tragic event occurred in Ukraine, in a car crash killed the Hero of Ukraine, Woznicki Boris Grigoryevich, who contributed greatly to the preservation of the cultural property of our State. I'd like everyone to honor this remarkable man's memory together for a minute of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I ask you to honor your memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision on the need for a settlement with the Russian Federation of relations on the issue of the return to Ukraine of the sums of the savings of Ukrainian citizens, which were accumulated on 1 January 1992 in the USSR Savings and are property of Ukrainian citizens. Well, by the way, dear colleagues, we have here a draft decree and a draft law. Are we going to look at them together or not? Huh? Together or separately? Turn around? Well, please, the reporter, Viacheslav Kirilenko. The reporter is Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u57	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, this is a question that Ukraine has not had political will for 20 years. In 1996, as you know, we made a decision that Ukraine alone was saving its citizens, not a lot, but 132 billion dollars. Now the state of affairs for this moment has returned about 10 billion dollars, which is 8.1 percent. Thus, for hundreds of years, this procedure will stretch forward if Ukraine continues to do so alone. At the same time, this money was not lost, and it was found in the Russian system then Soviet, and since January 1, 1992, Russian Savings and that is 84.3 billion rubles. We were still in the past contact with academic Yukhnowsky, and as an economist, he came to the conclusion that it was necessary to count the current course of the ruble to the dollar, and he was 56 copies per US dollar. And so we're not calculating 132 billion dollars, and $150.5 billion of our Ukrainian savings is sitting in the USSR Savings accounts, and now Russia. So I propose that I finally return to this issue and take my political will into my fist in order to address this issue before the Russian Federation, which, of course, does not acknowledge or acknowledge any debt to Ukraine, at least until it has an official decision to make to Parliament. Therefore, I propose to make a decision obliging the government to formally address the Russian Federation government's issue of the return of lost Ukrainian citizens' savings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u58	From the committee is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovitch Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u59	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with article 93 of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft decree that the author has reported and stresses that it is only 84 billion rubles, which belong directly to Ukrainian citizens and are their property. This bill is proposed by the Supreme Council in order to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers, once again, in the negotiations before the Russian Federation, with the issue of a step-by-step settlement of the relations in the sphere of distribution between the states of the former "SSR Savings" and the return of citizens, I stress, Ukraine 84.3 billion rubles, which were accumulated as of 1 January 1990, the "SRSR Savings" from Ukraine. The Committees of the Supreme Council have no concern, passively, at times negative, and hopelessly, have dealt with this issue. At the same time, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on April 25, this year, unanimously approved recommending to the Supreme Council that the required decision should be adopted and thereby encouraging the improvement of Ukraine's relationship with Russia is important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u60	Thank you, Oleg Grigorovitch, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for your views on this project. Yes, your name, please. Paul Zebravsky, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Bondarenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u61	Paul Žebrovsky, Ukrainian platform "The Council". Dear colleagues, I will immediately tell those who will accuse the author of this decree of being an anti-Russian incident. There is no anti - Russian impact on this subject. There is a question of the settlement of relations between the Russian State and the Ukrainian State. In fact, Ukraine, the state has not yet signed an agreement on the so - called zero variant that Russia insisted on. I am convinced that taking responsibility for what, in large accounts, Ukraine does not carry largely, is unfair to the Ukrainian people. Everyone knows that on the last day, in fact, the Russian Reserve removed the financial resource from the Ukrainian Savings. For all of this, there are all supporting documents. And to those pro-Russian politicians who are going to be adamant about not signing or voting for this decree, I mean, love your people, then you'll have a good attitude towards foreign countries, towards foreign people. Because if the one who does not support this decision is ready, he is an exiled Cossack to the Ukrainian Parliament and works for another nation, another nation. I am convinced that in addition to this issue, we need to address the issue of foreign property, we need to settle many, many things in the relationship between Russia and Ukraine. Today the issue is being raised and the Ukrainian Parliament must defend the interests of the Ukrainian people. You are the national deputies of Ukraine. And that is why I am convinced that there will be no MP in Parliament today who is not ready to support this particular decision in order to regulate relations and to strengthen the friendship between the Ukrainian and Russian people. Because if there are no unresolved issues, then there will be no claims against each other. And there's no pretenses at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u62	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u63	will bring friendship to two great nations and neighbors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u64	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u65	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Today’s authorities are going to run the country and have declared one position very serious: we are going to have an immediate beautiful relationship with Russia; we are going to get absolutely cheap gas from Russia; we are going to be friends with them, we are going to live peacefully. We live in peace. Today, the stubborn position of the Russian Federation is not broken, for example, in the same fight against Ukrainian agriculture, when our cheeses consciously, quality cheeses are not taken to destroy Ukrainian agriculture. I want to say that the money from the Foreign Bank in its time was stolen from Russia in the same way as the Savings Bank. The money that was found in legal and natural persons on one day was transferred to Moscow accounts, even during an independent period of Ukraine. Then the Ukrainian "Ukreximbank" was opened, and now we're using it. By then our older brothers had simply taken away. So they took the frescoes of the Mikhail Council, and the great scientist, he's already dead today, Lichachev wrote that "how can we give them back, because the world's used to seeing them in the Russian Museum or in the Ermitage." How can they be returned to Ukraine? Why? So they even wonder how stolen property can be returned to Ukraine. The same is true of the ambassadorial complexes. Over 200 ambassadorial complexes of their time were completely without any basis -- I emphasize -- handed over only to the Russian Federation. I know how our children in China, where the Russian Embassy is now 64 hectares in China, and our children have disbelieved in the French Embassy for several years -- they went to French school because our "brothers" wouldn't let our children in. So what I'm saying is, that's how it is with this money. Excuse me, it's clear today that there's a big lobby of the Russian Federation. Today the posters hang all over Ukraine "Your Choice!'not "Your choice!".. This "your choice" is coming upon Ukraine today, so today's vote will show who is Ukrainian and who is who.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u66	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u67	The Ukrainian is primarily a tolerant and educated person. I refer to the "sent Cossack", 1.01.1991 Russia from the Savings of Ukraine did not remove anything, was not in the nature of such a bank, the Savings Bank of Ukraine created in an independent Ukraine. Russia has cleared all accounts in Ukraine’s savings, and Savings is part of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. And let's be cool without demagogies and politics. The key word in the speech to the committee's head today was, "Ukraine should try to ask that question again." Colleagues, I remind you, educated Ukrainians, on June 1, 2000, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree on the government's debt obligations to citizens of Ukraine, which were reinstated from the period until January 2, 1992, in the institutions of the Bank of Savings, which were entrusted to the Cabinet of Ukraine to address the issue of the settlement of relations between the issues relating to the distribution between the States of the former Soviet Union's liability to citizens and the return to Ukraine of 84.3 billion rubles, which were accumulated at the Savings Bank of the Soviet Union with the savings of Ukraine on January 1, 1991. I want to make it clear now, yes, maybe the Kabmin who worked for today's author, the former First Deputy Secretary of the Professional Committee, put the Deputy Prime Minister in his fist, or did they put anything else in his fist? Why was no step taken on the road to asking the Russian Federation? In this regard, the current question in this project is politics and demagogism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, who hasn't spoken of the factions yet? So we're done. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that this issue would require clarity and complete information for our citizens and, above all, the Supreme Council would obviously have to be clear on this issue. Why do I say that? In 1996, the Supreme Council passed the Law on State Guarantees for the Return of Savings to Citizens. And in fact, the case crossed out any possibility of establishing the truth, because it took on all the debts. I looked who was voting, raise your voice now, see who voted for this document at the time. This is the first time. It's different. We, if I'm not mistaken, were creating a commission of inquiry during the 2002-2006 cadence that studied this issue. And I have to say, honourable colleagues who were against including this commission working to establish the truth who gave the order to sign the corresponding document to the Prime Minister of Ukraine at the time who signed the document. So I think we need to get to the bottom of this, like in all the other issues when people were robbed. Again, I'm referring to the proposal to bring the case of the Bank of Ukraine to an end. We've locked it down, we haven't considered it. And so people were robbed from the left, from the right, from the center, from outside Ukraine, and we're demonstrating politics. Obviously, we need to study the problem seriously and see what are the legal positions. And just the emotions, the mutual accusations, they won't do anything at all. Taking into account the discussions and reports that have taken place, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft a decision on the need for a settlement with the Russian Federation on the relationship between the return to Ukraine of the sums of the savings of Ukrainian citizens, which were accumulated as of 1 January 1992 in the Savings of the USSR and which are property of Ukrainian citizens. [[Registration number 10187]] Please go to the vote, make up your mind. [[11:13:25]] For-140. The factions, please. Region Party 3, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 27, Communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 5, non-fractional – 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u69	I would ask you not to scream "disgusting" because you will come out on your own, dear fellows, yet. We need to calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, calm down. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees and Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens is being announced for consideration. [[on the State's obligation to settle with the Russian Federation the issue of the return to Ukraine of the savings of Ukrainian citizens who were accumulating in the USSR Savings on 1 January 1992 and are property of Ukrainian citizens]] [[10181]] For inclusion in the agenda. The author of Viacheslav Kirilenko has the floor for the report. The report will be by Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u70	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters! Dear colleagues! I'm not going to give political evaluations because it's been so long since everyone's been clear, and there's no point in wasting time. But what I'm trying to say is that the problem that the Chief of the Supreme Council has just mentioned may be solved by my own bill, more specifically by amendments to the 2nd article of the Act on Restoration of Citizens' Savings. True, this article in the present law says that only Ukraine is obliged to return this money. And I'm proposing to add a part of the second part that sounds like this: "the state is obliged to settle with the Russian Federation the issue of the return of the Russian Federation to Ukraine of savings from Ukrainian citizens who have accumulated on correspondence accounts of savings savings institutions."--hereinafter referred to as,--"and were accounted for by the government of the former USSR Bank." I mean, and formally, I propose that we formulate everything exactly right and correct. I've had a print right here since 1997, how much money did the Ukrainian government give the citizens from the budget? Well, that's a penny. Because the entire budget is to be provided by the Ukrainian State and two others in the same year only for the return of citizens' savings. I want to remind you that in 2011, the previous year, this number went to zero, zero, zero, zero. This year, 2012 so far is zero dollars. I understand they're about to start giving thousands because of the election. And after the election, they'll stop again. So I propose not to manipulate this issue for political purposes, but to make changes to legislation, which will clearly say that the Ukrainian State continues to commit to its citizens, but also to work with the Russian Federation, where the money of our citizens is found. I repeat, it's $150 and a half billion at that time. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u71	Yes, Vassil Georgiyovich, please conclude the committee. It may be that the government is under an obligation, not a government. Because the state sounds abstract.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u72	As unbecoming as all the words from this rostrum about this bill appear, I am convinced that he has no prospect. Well, first of all, the Act on State Guarantees for Restoration of the Savings of Ukrainian Citizens regulates only within Ukrainian relations and cannot regulate international relations. Secondly, as we understand it, and this is not the first project and this is not the first time we have talked about it, Russia has no obligations to us on this issue. Third. The draft does not propose any mechanisms to address this issue. Fourthly, if we want to address these issues, they must be addressed only within the framework of international law. That is, the decision mechanism proposed by the author will not be implemented. We can conclude from this that it is simply in order to fight for the interests of investors who have lost their money and the results cannot be achieved through the bill. Therefore, I do not think that it is necessary to put it on the agenda and to waste time on the consideration of the infertile bill. There are many other issues that need to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u73	If you are willing to participate, please sign up. Please, Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u74	Dear National Deputies! Let's talk about the facts. First of all, the fact that 85 billion rubles were removed or removed from Ukraine, at the time, is a fact. [[And that's over $150 billion.]] And this is recognized by everyone, and this is enshrined in the agreements that were made in 1991-1992. And really, I remember when I was the head of the Kyiv District Office, a telegram from the government came from Moscow saying that there were 0.25 copies missing in the village of the settlement of the Kagarlic district of Kyiv County, please. 25 copies were sent to Moscow from some village of the settlement of the Kagarlic region! This is well - known for how the mechanism worked. Whoever wants to make sure of that, raise all the orders of the State Bank, well, then the Gossbank and the Savings Bank. And you'll know for sure before I sign the interstate agreements what a movement that money was! And so saying that Russia isn't guilty, Moscow isn't guilty, is a misstatement. Next. Indeed, Ukraine assumed its responsibility in 1992 on March 13 that it would put out these costs to its Ukrainians under one condition when the assets of the State Bank or Gosbank of that country would be distributed. Moscow did not, although it said that it was Moscow’s property. I don't think there's any reason?Oh, my God! There's a reason to say that. So, in my opinion, all it takes is political will. Among other things, read a note by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 1992, our Ukrainian Ministry, which also states that you would like to distribute the commitment of the State Bank to all republics, and there were 20 percent of Ukraine’s gold reserves from 15 republics, whether it's crazy or big money. And if Moscow were to divide, the Ukrainians would have to give our power to the Ukrainians. Therefore, the legal basis is only the political will of our country. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u75	Vladimir Bondarenko. Please, Terjehohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u76	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Sergey Teryohin, Timoshenko Street. So it happened that in 1992, I was part of a state-owned Ukrainian delegation that spent four months in Moscow, and we were just trying to find a formula for the distribution of liabilities assets of the former Soviet Union. So, you might be told that the interstate protocol, signed by Prime Minister Fokin and Prime Minister Yeltsin, recorded the Ukrainian State's right of 17.62 per cent to all assets of the Soviet Union and Moscow's obligation to return the expulsions between 1990 and 1991 not only money to the Soviet Union's Savings Bank, but also to Derjbank, Gosbank, Foreigneconomy and Derjstrich. And all this money was 126 billion Russian rubles at 1.54 dollars. Now you can count. What happened next. In 2000, really, I was the author of that decision again, along with the late Vadim Gethtman. We didn't sign anything with the Russian Federation, except in 1996, Ukraine received an exchange letter, a so-called exchange letter, from the club, from the London Club of Creditors, and Trische was his head. Where it was suggested that Ukraine accept zero options and give up that money. This exchange letter was rejected by Ukraine. And the last. The Russian Federation has declared itself internationally and has been recognized by many countries as the successor of the Soviet Union to the assets and liabilities of the former Soviet Union. So there's all of the international grounds for asking the Russian Federation to pay off all the money, and not just, and the distribution of Ghastly, let's say, the diamond fund and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u77	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u78	And the last. I remind you that the royal loan was committed to the Russian Federation of France, do you know what year? In 1996. Totally. So let's not confuse this issue and we'll accept this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u79	Thank you. Yes, please, 1 minute, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, at a time when we are conducting difficult, complex, intense negotiations with Russia to reduce the funeral price for gas, I repeat the funeral price for the gas that we have received from the past, which has literally choked our economy, while the knife in the back of the negotiating process is introduced by this bill, which was rightly said to solve nothing, but will politically reduce the negotiating process. Therefore, the head of the committee, Vasily Hara, who says: “In fact, this law does not decide or waste time on its consideration.” Please do not vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u81	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. You know, after, in my mind, Mr. Teryochin's brilliant speech, which led to and revealed the situation that happened in 1992, I'll say it myself. Do you know what we're afraid of? That is why we today in Parliament beat the spears and fear to raise the question of what our mothers, grandparents, had money, and were deprived of. Well, why are we afraid to raise that question? We have every reason to talk about this today. And if we want to build with our northern neighbour, the Russian Federation, to which we treat with great respect, equal relations, we need to raise these questions because adults talk about everything. And the fact that debt exists is an absolute fact. Let us find political will right in Parliament and try to unite and give impetus to this process. Because without us, no one in the state will do it. Let's support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u83	The factions have already come from the factions. There's no motive. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Savings of Ukrainian Citizens. [[Registration number 10181]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:26:27]] For 148 The factions. The Party of Regions – 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 98, "Our Ukraine" – 33, Communists, the People's Party – did not vote, "Reforms" – 8, non-fractional – 7. We are discussing the issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the Presidential Decree on the application of discharge from the post of Head of the State Penitentiary Service of Lisickow O.V. Please report to Tomenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, the legislative initiative of Tomenka, Mishchenka, Knazevitch, Prokopchuk, Petruk, Wooden, Paris and Philenka is a reaction to the situation that is now in the Ukrainian State Pension Service system. This situation is not limited to the resonant situation, not only the presence of leaders of political opposition, but it is linked to the fact that we daily have information about the special, corrupt, immoral, and inhuman system where people are found, a significant number of which have no bearing on the accusations they are making. A story with a film made by Constantine Ussa “Lukyanyvka. Prison No. 1 has very clearly demonstrated the moral values of the head of the Ukrainian Penitentiary Service. When we listened to him here and asked him what he would do, how he would react to these principles of immorality and corruption that were in this system, he said, "It's photomontage. We faked this video, and we won't admit anything." Maybe the photo montage is that one of the heroes of the documentary, Maxim Podugolnikov, was beaten up and said, "Nothing with Usa's films to make about the SSO." Is the daily information on the abuse that people find there? You know the situation that goes on with Timoshenko. We already have penitentiary leaders, they are already speaking as propagandists and politicians, more active than the leaders of the parliamentary majority. They are commenting on this political situation. They say that the cameras for Timoshenko, they're watching, but they're closing them with some kind of purple. Who closes when they close? What's going on? Why does Timothy’s beating take place? Why was Yuri Lucenka admitted during treatment to him that hepatitis C had been given? So if there is no conscience and morality in the director of the penitentiary service, we demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u85	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u86	We demand that he be released by the President. And if in every civilized country, after the facts cited, after such facts about Timoshenko, Lucenko, he would have to write his own application. If he doesn't have a conscience to do that, we're asking the President to release Lisickov and order the pension service of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u87	Sweden Victor Dmitrovich. Who's it gonna be? Yuri Prokopchuk? Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u88	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, the real situation in the penitentiary system, what has become apparent, thanks to the journalistic investigation, and I want to thank all the journalists that they are doing things for prosecutors today, for the basic supervisory institution in the state, for the institution that is going to investigate it, says that even in the Kyiv S.I.U., terrible things are being created. And in addition, Mr. Lisickov's statements, his substitutes, which relate directly to Julia Timoshenko's case, the fact that it's not happening there, and the surveillance is kind of excessive, that the records aren't being recorded, but it happened. The attempt at life at first in Lukyanivský SEZO by not offering medical aid for 20 minutes, then the events that have already taken place in the Kachanów insulatory, that is, in the Kachanów Colony, where two people in exile brutally beat Julia Timoshenko, say that it is really necessary to take action. And what I'm saying is, when we were in a group of people's deputies in the Kachanov Colony, we met an unidentified person who had no papers, who he was, but who he was, in the meantime, was on the territory of the Kachanov Colony. So it's clear that this "looker" without a name, without authority, without a job, is exactly who today directly influences processes. This is due to the baptism of Mr. Lisickov, director of the Penitentiary. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary not only to dismiss Mr. Lisickov from his office but also to investigate his service and to prosecute a criminal case for attempted murder of a political leader.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u89	Please, Your Honor. Dear National Deputies! Write down if there is a need to discuss the matter. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Moisik, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Who? Andrew Parubius? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u90	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! A boy named Andrew. I want to say that this question has long been widely publicized. And actually, the investigation that the public activists were doing, the journalists and the information that we have about the abuse of Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko, it's already become a problem not only Ukrainian, it's out there on the world side, and it's already become just comedy for the world. A state structure that allows the abuse and persecution of Ukrainian citizens there. And so in any civilized state, that question would have been resolved long ago. I understand that there are people of different political views in this room, but it's generally about the honor of our state, because tomorrow that persecution may be subject to a familiar friend or any other citizen of Ukraine when it comes to that criminal system, and I ask you to determine what kind of service this has become. So I urge, regardless of political views, regardless of preferences, to vote in favour of the bill in order to show that Ukraine is a civilised state, it goes to the European Union, rather than gradually becoming a police state. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u91	Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Andrew School, please. Vladimir Oilynik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u92	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Party, the honorable Presidium, the venerable, first of all, our television and radio audiences! Today's question, the ruling that is being discussed, of course, I agree with the author that the President would have done this, he would have after this person who heads the penitentiary service had initially lured into the sessional room of Parliament, then in the towers, later demonstrated complete ignorance and inadequacy of his job, working with people in the first place, he showed them inhumane treatment. So I think, of course, he's not going to have to make a resignation application. But just look at the attitude of the entire service to the national MPs, to the common people, to those who really need to be protected first, to be stressed, to be protected, and it touches innocent people who are in the detention facility. Because there are innocent people in the detention facility who are not proved guilty by the courts. Yulia Timoshenko, who was in the detention unit, was not provided with medical care when she lost consciousness, and Julia Timoshenko was not provided with medical care when she needed constant protection and care from the doctor. How can you not call it torture? So now we can call the penitentiary service and its handler a torture service, they torture people, not protect them. That's their job. And that is, of course, the task that guides them. So I want all of us to realize that people like this have to be, I agree, not only fired, but also held accountable. And the time will come. This will affect not two but three so - called officers who murmured and abused Julia Timoshenko in her cell. We're going to bring everyone's responsibility. And now we invite the President to release the bastard who holds this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u93	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions will not support this decision. And that's why. The problem is, of course, the penitentiary system exists and needs to be solved. But it didn't come up today, and it did come up when you were in power and you didn't do anything to change the situation for the better. Even today, you have refused to support the Criminal Procedure Code, which will significantly change the situation in this system. Because fewer people are going to get there. Things that are shameful to Ukraine when people sleep in turn will be involved. And in this respect, you need to get more involved in the process of modernizing this system. Next. If you take this determination and read the Explanatory Note, there are numerous violations. However, the facts that have a direct bearing on the responsibilities of the head of the service and the improper performance of the head of his duties must be given. He's acting, Fox Alexander, clearly within his powers. And all the comments that the head and his subjects make are required by law. In terms of the fact of the beating, let's be honest with you, in this decision you should either indicate in the Explanatory Note that there is a decision to refuse a criminal offence, a check carried out, about 80 citizens were questioned, personally the Attorney General of Ukraine Victor Pshonka gave an explanation to journalists, showed that this is not all true. And the common people know that in order to confirm the fact of the beating, it is necessary to remove the beating. Even refusal to participate in these simple things indicates that there was no beating. Stop manipulating such an important factor as health, for you are sinning.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u95	Dear National Deputies! Let's move on to the vote. The discussion is over. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Decision to refer to the President of Ukraine with a proposal for discharge from the post of Head of the State Pension Service of the Ukraine of Lysakik. [[Registration number 10400]] Please identify yourself. [[11:39:06]] For 135 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 98, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 31, communists – 0, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, non-fractional – 6. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine is being introduced to consider its inclusion in the agenda. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Czarnovil. Coroner from the committee, who's it gonna be? Victor Schwetz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! The bill actually has two tasks. The first humanitarian task, which concerns any Ukrainian who has been convicted, with enough renown to be ready to be accepted by another state of the world, with certain guarantees, etc., is to execute it there, to punish further returns and so forth, to give our Ukrainian court the appropriate decision to allow such a person to be exported, in fact, to send such a person to treatment within Ukraine or abroad. And having a state of health that is doing according to the existing criminal and criminal procedure codes, which does not allow justice to be done to such a person, use the two rights guaranteed by the Constitution for health and life. This is the right to treatment, to halt the punishment that already exists in the Criminal Code, but within the State or outside the State. These things are not actually in conflict with the criminal and procedural codes that are already in place today. But their lack of clarity allows the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice to claim that such things cannot be done in each particular case. That's the first thing. We're creating an opportunity for that fact. Even the same treatment for the same Julia Timoshenko in Kharkiv, or Yuri Lucenka in the hospital was illegal. This law allows it. And the second moment is a political one. Today’s vote is in fact because we understand that it is today, primarily about one person who is often mentioned here. The question is, Are we ready to make any adjustments, including in the matter? This issue must now lie before the Council of Europe, in PARE. And we know that we've postponed the adoption of the resolution to Thursday on this issue today in the Supreme Council Hall. And we have to answer that: we are ready or we are not ready to take any further steps.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u97	Finish up, all right? Yes, the head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u98	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished National Deputies, the Committee on the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, considered at its meeting a bill by the national deputy Taras Chernobyl, which provided for a legislative solution to the treatment of persons in prison who were ill during the course of the sentence, treatment outside Ukraine. In my opinion, if that were the case now, Ukraine’s legislation does not prohibit the treatment of persons in prison outside Ukraine. But in order to remove any legislative imbalances from this issue and to remove any doubts, I think that the Taras Chernobyl bill is absolutely right and appropriate. In view of its protection of the constitutional guarantees of Ukrainian citizens for life and the provision of qualified medical care, the Committee, by a large majority of votes, approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted on a first reading basis. Despite the fact that he needs some technical legal work. In the draft decree, by the way, the committee proposes that the Supreme Council entrust the committee in preparing it for second reading must take into account the issue of the introduction of the Criminal Enforcement Code. Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell you one more thing. Take a look at the condition of Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko when the authorities illegally imprisoned her. It was full, full of health and enormous political prospects. He was a cheerful man. And now she's on the verge of life and death. And that's what the authorities did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u100	Just a minute. The authorities do all they can to ensure that Timothy is not simply deprived of his will but is deprived of his life. So, honourable colleagues, let's stand up for the constitutional rights of citizens. Let's give people who need treatment to be provided by the state, to be treated abroad. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u101	Please sign up for the discussion. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u102	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, the physical condition of a person in prison is an extremely important question, so the doctor in our faction, Sergey Shevchuk, will speak more competently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u103	Shevchuk Sergei, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u104	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr! Dear colleagues, I want you to mention one fact here from our parliamentary existence. In our past summons, we have deprived one of the inviolability of one of our colleagues, he has been tried, and all of us, all of us parliamentarians, knew that he was terminally ill. A few months later, he died. So this bill isn't about Julia Timoshenko, it's about a lot of other, higher goals. Because the biggest punishment for anyone is not incarceration in prison or in S.I.O. If a person is sick, the greatest punishment is to leave him without help when he becomes disabled and then dies and knows that no one will help him. Of course, the politically motivated Yulia Tymoshenko process is taking place. Apparently, the author of the initiative also considered this. After all, yesterday there was a debate in the European Parliament, and yesterday a decision was practically made, which will be made tomorrow. This decision is that there can be no agreement between the EU and Ukraine without resolving the issue of political persecution in Ukraine. This is already a fact. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the drafter of the bill has expressed his initiative with regard to those who are not in isolation today, who will still be under investigation. The point is that those who are yet to be convicted may likewise be disfellowshipped and cured by the condition of the disease. That is, those who today may be in power, and tomorrow, in change of power, will be condemned. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u105	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I ask that you pay attention to the sociopolitical sound of this proposal. Our post office, the Ukrainian National MPs' post office, FM radio, television today is full of whites and the despair of the parents of our small citizens, the children of Ukraine who are unable, have no funds to go out and get treated, examine abroad. This is a very specific subject of why Ukraine cannot provide such medical services. But there is such evidence when a child can be rescued by immediate, urgent help abroad. There's no money for that in the state. At the same time, doctors from Canada, Germany, are being summoned to see the radical of an exhaled person. I do not know where the boundaries of cynicism and the hypocrisy of the Sabbath writers are around the Kachanov Correctional Colony. The possibility of treatment and testing abroad is given by one institution, the state budget of Ukraine. So who's this bill for? Who has the resources and without permission from the State to go to treatment abroad? Those thieves, those hoodlums who slaughtered a madam of 12 billion in the wild, someone a little less, or the authorities, who can and have the resources to go there with the permission and the sanctification of the Ukrainian state. This bill is nothing. This bill is abuse of common sense. It cannot be placed in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u107	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u108	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Honorable national MPs, a respected Ukrainian people, the proposed project is a means of saving the rightful authorities, of saving not those who have fallen ill while in places of deprivation of liberty. And I would like to remind those who don't know that since 2000, there has been a joint order from the Ministry of Health and Penitentiary Services that predicts that the people who are sick, who we are looking at now, who are in Lucenka, in Timoshenko, should be released from custody. But to do that, you have to submit the Penitentiary System. To do this, the penitentiary system does not wear pagons, and the penitentiary system must be subordinated to those institutions that are subordinated and controlled by public society. We don't have it yet. That's what's going on. There was talk of someone who stole 11 or 20 billion. Apparently it's about Mr. Firthash, 11 billion cubic metres of gas that you've made because of the possibility of Stockholm's so-called arbitration, it's legalized, but it's a little bit more than that. This might be about the billions that have just been written down, which were referred to in "The Star" as the basis for the elections, maybe the billions? And in this same project, we're talking about very simple things. Suggests to write about the exemption from punishment for disease and everything. And there's no need to send any budget here absolutely. The science-experts office wrote that it's kind of hard to make changes to a new KPC because another KPC is being adopted in a fraudulent way. But you have to take it now, because it's only going to start in six months and it's normal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on the release from punishment for illness]] [[Registration number 10450]] [[11:52:19.]] For 131 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 96, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 29, communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, two factions: the Faction "BUT" – "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" in accordance with the Rules requires a recess to be announced in order to hold consultations and make statements. Please, who will make the application? Andrew Kožemyakin will make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u110	Good afternoon! It's a statement from the "BUT" faction. Four months after the adoption of the Council of Europe Resolution, most stubbornly refuse to fulfil their constitutional obligations and avoid fulfilling international obligations to uphold the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens in Ukraine. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, of which Ukraine is a member, has made clear demands on the authorities to depolize criminal legislation in Ukraine, stop political repression, and release political prisoners. But most methodically block any legislative initiative that allows for the fulfilment of the demands of the European community. The laws that the opposition is proposing are not even included in the agenda, the ones that are included are blocked. Thus, the full responsibility for international isolation lies with the overwhelming parliamentary majority. Moreover, while the European Parliament is currently considering a draft of the most violent resolution on the situation in Ukraine, most have demonstrated their refusal to support legislation that would allow the deposing of Ukrainian criminal legislation and the fulfilment of the requirements of the European community. It is now known that the main position of the European Parliament resolution is the list of conditions, the unlocking, the signing and ratification of the Association Agreement. A key requirement of the European Parliament to the Ukrainian authorities is to explain before the electoral campaign begins the situation of prisoners who have been sentenced on politically motivated matters. Today's day of opposition and the conduct of the majority in this room was the last attempt by the European Parliament to take an extremely harsh decision in relation to Ukraine to comply with the requirements of previous European Parliament and PARJE resolutions on the depolization of the 365, 364 articles of the Criminal Code. Most of them just failed. And it's been going on for four months. Thus, it is the dominant majority that destroys all the European integration processes of Ukraine and purposefully leads our nation to complete isolation, to a deadlock. The Faction "BUT" – "Paternity" will not participate in this farce, and today the next day they make a démarche and leave this hall. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! I suggest that we take a break now, think about it, think about it, and continue to work on the events that have taken place today, tomorrow, and in the days to come. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, we will continue our sessions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u113	After October 28, 2012, after the election. Yeah, I think there's gonna be a chance. Yes, please, dear colleagues. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda of the Act on Amendments to the Law of Ukraine on the peculiarities of privatization of State Shareholders. [[on the responsibility of the buyer for non-compliance with privatisation obligations]] Antonina Boloura. No, it's not. Just a minute. Who will be speaking from the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll bet. One minute. I'm voting on a proposal for a day-to-day bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the peculiarities of privatization of state-owned shareholders. [[on the responsibility of the buyer for non-compliance with privatisation obligations]] Please determine by vote. There is no author. Well, what do you want to talk about? We can talk if the author reports. [[12:30:53]] For-40 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u114	It's a motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u115	There's no motive. I'll be able to talk now. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster (on the social protection of widows (widows) and children of dead citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster) is being announced for consideration. The author is Ukrainian national deputy Volodymyr Yavorowski, please. Both from the committee and Glazonov from the committee will be speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u116	The honourable electorate, the distinguished national MPs, is sitting here, sitting in Ivan Stepanovich Plush, sitting there, sitting in Ivan Stepanovich Plush, who can remember how twenty years ago, with a hook from this rostrum, I had to defend the first Chernobyl social protection laws of the people who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. At that time, the subject was incredibly acute, painful, and it was literally on the nerves. But then Parliament, where there were also very different political views, but it adopted these laws, humane laws. And if then someone, Ivan Stepanovich, and you were to say that 20 years from now, we'd have to see the Chernobyls perform and protest that they're being cut down by those laws that they're being slashed by these benefits, tiny, miserable benefits, and that they're actually going to be on almost the only front today, by the way, and Andrew, who serves there today, is dancing to the authorities, and that there's going to be Chernobyl strikes, that's really going to be. This bill I've been preparing with the Chernobyls, with the Chernobyls, real, non-smooth, not those who lie under someone. The essence of this bill is very simple. Today, it turns out. The first is that the Chernobylites are almost in fact dying out, and in most cases their death is related to their being in Chernobyl. As a result, when their children remain at times when their wives remain or their wife dies, I say again when her death is related to her being in Chernobyl, which was influenced by radiation. To give these people a chance at least to support them a little bit so that they can survive. This is exactly what I'm trying to say about the thousands of people who need this help. That's why I introduced this bill. To be honest, I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u117	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u118	That's what you're going to support. At least it's worth it. I'm sure it's necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u119	The national deputy Glazunov of the committee will be speaking. And then we need to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee at its meeting carefully considered the bill. Regrettably, the entities of the legislative initiative did not provide financial and economic justifications for the bill and proposals, amendments to Ukraine's legislative acts on budget cuts, i.e. sources of additional revenue to the budget to achieve budgetary balance. And secondly, I would like to point out that the bill proposes to remove the status of the current Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to extend to minors and citizens assigned to the category one aid for entering public higher education institutions, vocational and technical education institutions and to vocational training courses with compulsory accommodation for those who do not have housing and to pay a higher scholarship in the order and scales established by the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine, irrespective of training in the territory of Ukraine, which is contrary to article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What I'd like to say is that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority thinks that, as a result of the review, it is appropriate to send it for processing. We also consider that it is appropriate to finish the work, and we believe that it is necessary for the authors to work on it and then to bring it into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, put the name of the national deputies on the information board. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Now, the citizens of Ukraine who have the status of Chernobyl who have suffered are millions of Ukrainian citizens. Note the important bill on how to protect your rights. And there is no one in the room willing to speak to discuss the problem of the lives of the Chernobylites today. Millions of Ukrainian citizens lived their lives in 1986, and health was placed with you here today in the Council. And none of you have pressed the button to take the floor and say that I will vote in favour of the law that increases the social security of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Here are the good people that we have today, most of them in the Supreme Council. They don't think at all about your interests. They don't know how you live, what hurts. They do not know that you do not have enough for medicine or for a piece of bread. Because if they knew that if they were concerned about your problems, they would be standing here aging for this law. And there's no one besides Easy. Here's your power. They tell you before the election, and they'll give it to you, and they'll give it to you. First, 100 billion dollars are borrowed this year, and the government of Azarov is borrowing pensions before the elections, paying wages, and giving thousands of dollars. And tomorrow we're going to have to return 100 billion to our children and grandchildren. That's what politics is all about. They are not now supporting the Act on Raising Payments to Black People, motivated by the fact that there is no money in the budget. The bosses have the money. Azarov has 20,000 pensions a month. He gets 45,000 a month for doing nothing but ruining the country. And there's half of them in the Council. And in the Cabinet of Ministers. They have money in their budget. And the people who gave up their lives, they gave up their health, and they don't have any money. You are disgraced by the Ukrainian people, by the Chernobyls!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u123	Yes, Olinick, BUT faction, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u124	The esteemed chairman, the nobles, 26 years have passed since the greatest technological catastrophe in human history — the Chernobyl station accident. Unfortunately, in 26 years the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster — especially in the social, medical, and vice versa — have increased. I'd like to say just one number. Today, there are 112,000 disabled people in Ukraine who have been disabled as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. Regrettably, the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 Act, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, has effectively destroyed the system of social protection of the Chernobyl population. This system, adopted in 1991 and incorporated into the Basic Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. To this day, the budget allows the authorities not to pay the sums prescribed by the law to black people. So actually, the law doesn't work. Tomorrow the Supreme Council will consider another law on State guarantees for the enforcement of judicial decisions. This law will bring an end to the system of social protection of the Chernobylites. This bill, which is now being proposed for consideration, proposes only one possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u126	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear radio listeners! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Before that, one of the representatives of the faction, none of whom were in this room. I appealed to most of them. But his family’s faction built another barricade, perhaps in a buffet. There's no man. And she's sneezing at someone today. I want to say the position of the faction of the Company of Ukraine on this point. The Ukrainian Company's faction will support this bill, given that we are consistent in our social protection of the most vulnerable groups. Because we understand that it's about things that can't be supported. I understand there are questions about the possibility of this document. But by working together, we can find ways to solve it, to find the funds to solve it. It's a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u127	Anatoly Seminoga, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We really owe the Chernobyls, the people who saved our nation, and the whole of Europe from a terrible technological catastrophe. At the same time, though, we should report to ourselves that we should adopt quality laws. Because by adopting indecisive laws, we thus create problems that exist today, including in the Chernobyl area. The committee made, in my opinion, the right and the right decision. This bill needs further work. Because it does not meet the requirements and is now in force. Today, he does not encounter the status of people who are veterans of the Great Homeland War. There are a lot of specific, real comments to it. So the decision to make it work is, in my opinion, balanced and correct today. I'm asking you to support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u129	Gregory Smythech, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u130	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm a special name for Mr. Lášek's name, so that he can give me the opportunity to give him a replica if he's allowed by the Chief of the Supreme Council, because he's saying things that are completely incomprehensible to me. Why do I say that? Take a month, a little more than a month ago -- we accepted the changes to the state budget. According to these changes in socio-economic development, socio-economic support, our population has been allocated over 33 billion dollars, including by these population categories that you're talking about. I'll give you an example in this plan that only the pension for the Chernobyl station's consequences have increased from 1,800 dollars this year, to 3,000,511 dollars. Well, you have to tell the truth, and you have to tell people not just slogans, but say specific things. This is the first time that the government of Azarov, at the initiative of the President, has made changes, and the Supreme Council, our faction, including, supported these changes to the budget, has made substantial changes. If you look at these changes, they're clearly and clearly published, you'll see that these changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u131	Finish up, five seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u132	It's a very large population category, including the Chernobyl disaster. Don't speculate on that!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Indeed, the situation is that Chernobyl needs increased funding from the state budget. In order to implement all the Chernobyl laws, 75 billion dollars is needed. Only a tenth is covered by the corresponding expenditure. I'll remind you of us all. And we're all here as bullies for the people, especially for the Chernobyl people, especially before the elections that in 2008 228 people's deputies voted to stop or postpone, or to completely distinguish laws, the whole string, the price of 105 billion dollars. So if necessary, I'll ask you to republish the names of the national MPs. So we don't throw our fingers at each other. There is a problem. Let us deal with the solution, not with naked populism altogether. We can't make a decision about sending a draft bill without including it in the agenda. Therefore, the motion for inclusion in the agenda of the draft law, registration number 10275, is put to the vote. Please make a decision. [[12:44:50]] For-40 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The Party of the Regions, "BUT - Fatherland" - 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 7, Communists - 25, People's Party and "Reforms for the Future" - one at a time, non-fractional - 6. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the increase in budgetary positions in State higher education institutions]] Andrew Pavlovsky, please. You don't? I'll bet you a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 10154. The author will report, we will discuss. [[12:45:44]] For-35 The decision is not taken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Education of Ukraine Dubový, please. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] [[10173]] There's no Dubov. I'll bet you a vote. And from the committee, please, Lutsky. The workman, please, from the committee. So let's get this straight, your honors, let's do this, if there's a reporter -- reports that there's a commission from the committee -- reports. Well, since you're out, let me know. But I don't see the committee empowering you to report. Please, Lesa the Ripper. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u134	Good health, fellow believers. You know how to talk about social security to teachers, so this day is not enough, there are no reporters, there is no time, and so on. Nevertheless, today I will complete this bill. I'm going to start with what's going on with the social guarantees for the teachers. This bill was tabled by a colleague from opposition, but the truth is for every political force present in Parliament without exception promised the same teachers, namely: first, raise social status, second, raise the attractiveness of the teacher's profession. What is it? The subject of this law is a series of changes, fundamental changes to the Education Act. First. The allocation of 80 per cent of the wage to teaching and teaching staff of general government insurance contributions. The other one. Increase the benefit to these categories every month as a percentage of wages: more than 3 years, up to 20 percent, over 10 years, up to 30 years, over 20 years, and 50 percent, as well as monthly tax benefit payments, but not less than three subsistence minimums, for working persons on annual leave. And the third. Eliminating the right of teachers working in rural areas and urban villages, as well as pensioners who have previously worked for and lived in educational staff, is the right to free use of heating and lighting housing from the amount of income that gives them the right to additional social benefits. Colleagues, most of the comments that are in scientific and expert management, come down to two categories of comments: first, there is no money, second, there are technical moments. As for the first, I want to remind you that article 61 of the Education Act requires funding for education needs of 10 percent of GDP, and we regularly allocate less than twice as much, and after the breakup comes at least, four times less than the teachers need. The other one. As far as technical standards are concerned. I think the Committee on Education and Science is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u135	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u136	prepare and correct all technical conditions. So, colleagues, I propose to support as promised to voters before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u137	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in if you need to discuss it. Names. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u138	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Let us first understand from the point of view of procedure. That is when the law is included in the agenda and the author is not available for objective reasons or subjective, the bill is already said to be the property of Parliament and we must consider it. But when there is an initiative bill from the author who is not yet on the agenda and the author is not demonstratively in Parliament, I think it is a humiliation for the MPs to consider a bill that is not available, the author who took and wiped the legs of the people who are sitting in Parliament. We're sitting, working, the author's gone, wiping our feet, somewhere in a buffet or a beer drinking, and we have to look at the project. I propose those bills, where there are no authors to be included, not to be considered without the authors. Well, how much shall we humiliate ourselves? Spit in our face, we're gone. Did they go for a beer or does God know where we were going and we still have to look? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u139	Yuri Carmazin, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u140	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! I would like to remind you that the bills have been tabled: the Pavlovsky People's Deputy, the Dubov People's Deputy, and the previous bill that you just talked about, Mr. Mikhailo, was introduced by Pavlovski. This is the son of our late colleague, a very good colleague of ours, working hard. At least he clearly read in the pre-election programme "Ukraine for the People", where the President of Ukraine, then a candidate for the Presidents, guaranteed an increase of 75 percent in budgetary positions in state higher education institutions. What Pavlovski did, he simply made a rule of law what your candidate for presidents guaranteed. What's wrong? Why didn't you support your president? You're wiping your feet against your president, just so you know. Now your president has guaranteed another thing. He guaranteed that teachers’ salaries would be compared to public service. Was it like that? is this paragraph written or not? I'm going to show you the program, I have it all the time, President Yanukovich's program all the time with me -- constantly carrying it. Both the Constitution and the President's program now. That's it. What's wrong with that? The target and payment of pensions is 80 percent of the wage, just as much as for government officials. Here's what they're offering. By the way, a young colleague of ours, Lesia the Ripper, was speaking. She spoke of the committee's opinion. The committee unanimously supported the decision that the bill should be supported in the first reading. Although I can see that it could be accepted as a whole. That's exactly what I'm asking you to do. And stop brain drains, brain drains of pedagogical frames.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u141	One minute. Bully, Baby and Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u142	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reforms for the Future. Our parliamentary group will support this bill. And why? Because it is actually the electoral commitment of so many people who are sitting in this room. We promised teachers to compare them to civil servants. And we understand that this can be done by giving them 80 percent of their salary. So this is actually an electoral commitment, including that of the President. I would like to say that this bill actually solves a very, very important issue. If you go to high school today, you'll see that there are people there who are practically retired. Because there are very low wages in school. The bill provides for an increase in wages if people. There's an encouragement going on. If people work at school, 3 years have worked – 20 percent, 10 years have worked – 30 percent, 20 years have worked – 50 percent to work. So that's how we just save school today. This.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u143	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, then Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u144	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Chechtov's colleague is crying to get his feet wiped and spit in his face, and you wiped his legs, the authorities, the Party of Regions, you wiped his legs against the entire Ukrainian people. You brought the country to the pen, you let people go with your hand out. I'm on my way to a meeting with the teachers of one of the schools in Montenegro. I bought paint, books, notes, pens, because they don't have anything, that's what you brought education to. Thus, teachers, educators, and general educational staff should be guaranteed by the State, as well as by government officials. The school director is to receive a pension as the head of the district administration, the chief. The cleaning lady at school is supposed to get a pension as a Chechetov deputy, and then we're going to have a level of education, and then we're going to have respect, and then we're going to have highly educated people. And when, excuse me, the teachers are down below the plentuse and they're complaining, you give them nothing, and then you want to have an education.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u145	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u146	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. I took the word from the faction to protect my fellow students. I worked in school for 20 years, and I probably know something about school and teaching, teaching. First of all, I don't want to agree with the thesis of the representative of the Party of Regions, the distinguished Mr. Chechtov. It's about that. What a great honor it will be if we vote on the author's bill. We are voting or not voting for millions of people who work in this area for pitiful pennies. Unfortunately, we love teachers three times a year — on Knowledge Day, on Education Day, and before the elections. So I want us to be consistent in this work. I mean, there's nothing new about this bill. Our colleague Catherine Semenovna Samylik proposed several bills on this subject, unfortunately they were not accepted. So the faction will be consistent, being consistent.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u147	Peter Stepanovich, I'll add, the fourth day they love is March 8th. Because normally, school is a woman's face, and everybody loves it. Replica, Mikhailo Chechetov. The last name sounded like it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I take the declaration of the head of the Radical Party. There's a deputy's salary. But when we considered the cost of advertising his party in Ukraine, when we counted the cost of two range rovers, where he travels with ten guards, it grows into several tens of millions. The question is: Where did the money come from? [[B in m in s a l in]] Where did the money come from, yeah. Where the money was taken. And the second question. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u149	Please, please! No last name. Oleg Valeriovich, please! Oleg Valeriovich, don't abuse me, please. Come and tell me. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Education Act of Ukraine, please vote. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] [[10173]] [[12:58:19]] For-98 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 25, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 8. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the payment of financial security to persons who provide social services for the care of children with disabilities and the disabled of the first group. Registration number 10240. Valerius Suškević, microphone. Is there a Valérie? From the Committee, Peter Cibenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u150	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, I think this subject of conversation, which is in the draft of this bill, is completely apolitical and has no bearing on the passions that may be on fire or that are kind of on fire in the hall. This is about children with disabilities and the questions that have to do with providing them with the help they need. So what I'm trying to say is that this is about two things that are absolutely specific. First of all, giving status to busy mothers who raise children with disabilities in subgroup "a", that is, children where mothers of children who are disabled with very severe forms of disease. And the second absolutely specific problem is to increase the amount of material aid they receive from the state. Dear colleagues, in this case, it's about making changes to actual legislation in helping families with disabled children. We've been talking to you all the time and all the time about one problem. When it comes to disabled people, we say that disabled people should not or their parents should walk in large and small offices, asking for something, either an allowance or a copy. Another principle has to work. In our country, which we all want to see civilized children like this, after such families, they should not follow money, and money or social services, medicine, help should follow them. So I ask you to support the inclusion in the agenda of this bill is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u151	If there is a need for discussion, please sign in. Show me the names of the people's deputies. Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u152	Yulia Timoshenko, city of Kirovograd I can't help but say the word to Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u153	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, well, you hear how when we talk about serious issues: the level of social security of Ukrainian citizens, the level of criminal power that they sneeze at others and tell them, the fool himself. Here comes a colleague of Chechetov, telling me that I have two cars, 10 guards, as the leader of the Radical Party. I go around the fields every day, and all people know that I'm the only one walking around. Because I don't have to hide from people because I don't fool them or rob them. It was you, when the black people, the Afghans stormed the Supreme Council, that you, like rats on the subway crossings, ran so that you wouldn't get hurt in the corner and turn away your ribs and everything you had there. And I was with these people in square one, and they all came up to me with a handshake and thanked me for being such a national MP. Let's do the experiment, Mr. Chechetov, let's go to the people together -- you and me. And we'll see, we'll take a walk through the Chrystics, which is what's left of you when you walk through the Chrysotics, from me. And you will see that I will go with such bouquets of roses, and you will be gnawed, naked, and without cowards running. Because you're going to get undressed, and they're going to beat you with their noses. That's how people don't like you. That's why you're hiding behind the guards, and you think they're all like that. I'm an opposition agent, I know that the Lord God protects me, and people protect me, and I don't need to spend money on protection. I spend my money on healing people, supporting temples, on socio-economic development of territories. That's where I spend my money. And you waste them, you eat the eggs black, red spoons, shovels. And Azariah said, Let men walk with a shovel for their lives. So I brought the shovel to Azarov, and I said, "Show me how you can make a living with a shovel when you sell an Egyptian potato. And our peasants can't sell." That's why Chechetov and you, regionally, are afraid to go to the people, because people hate you, because the land will be yours, as Shevchenko said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u155	Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u156	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I can confirm that even though he may be wrong at times, he has no protection. Affirmative. Now for the bill. Dear National Deputies! It's a shame we don't have any drafts on the day of the opposition. Now, I'm going to remind you of every promise your President has made right now that the Party of Regions has apparently failed, I understand. As a number of regional deputies think, why they do not keep his promise. Including raising social standards. One of these rises in social standards is perfectly fair to Law 10240, which has now been reported. According to Peter Cibenko, our colleague said that he should definitely be included in the agenda. Because the question is perfectly correct with my colleague Suškević, who introduced this bill. He suggested: one parent, adoptive father, caregiver, child care allowance is paid regardless of whether work, education or service. What are we going to win? We're going to win the state what it doesn't need to turn this kid in. That's different. The Social Services Act, also called for a good offer. This is the new article 7 prime. "Money provision for people who provide social services to individual categories of citizens." Is there an extra part? Yes. But it's tiny, and it's not compared to how you're not promising a reduction, promising a reduction in the cost of maintaining the authorities, it's actually raised them by 15 billion. And finally, Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have a question. Bill 6442 on the order of compensation for unlawful acts caused by a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u157	What bill? Yes, it is because we need less, respected colleagues, to work more effectively, and less to express political slogans. Yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u158	() [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u159	I want to tell you again, Yuri Anatoliyovich, on Wednesday the agenda of the meetings is formed by proposals of the opposition faction. This is their offer and I am not violating the political arrangements that were. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u160	() [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u161	Thank you! Thank you! Gennady the Bully? Yeah? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u162	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! MP's Reform for the Future, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. Well, I'd like to thank our colleague Suškević for the bill, because the bill is very good and really necessary. And our MP group will vote in favour of including him in the agenda. Why? Because this bill really solves a lot of problems and questions. Imagine a family, a disabled child. Clearly, a family is not just a financial burden but a moral, psychological burden. And of course, with this child in hospitals, in consultation. And there's just no extra money. And this bill solves a very important question, because a disabled child in Group I needs constant attention from guardians or parents. And it's a very, very difficult job. And that's a real job! And this bill is foreshadowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u163	Yes, honourable national MPs, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on the introduction to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the payment of financial security to persons who provide social services for the care of children with disabilities and with disabilities of the Group I. [[Registration number 10240]] [[13:08:44]] For-78 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. Region Party 2 – "BUT" – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 21, communists – 24, People's Party – 5, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 7. Dear colleagues, I propose that we consider the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Administrative Positions in Courts. Is there a shustik? None. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on administrative positions in the courts. [[13:09:36]] For the 17th. The decision is not taken. Ladies and gentlemen, this is now the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges to improve certain provisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[Registration numbers 10076, 10076-1]] Is Sergey Kiwalov here? None. Is there a shustik? These are the authors of the bill. None. I'll bet you a vote. Ah, there's Dmitri Pritica. Please. Which is one of the authors of this bill. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, the main task of the bill, which amends the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary and the status of judges, is to ensure that the Ukrainian Constitution provides for the principle of the independence of the court by means of a clear legislative settlement of individual issues relating to the material security of judges, as well as the effective work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine with a view to the rapid execution of tasks determined by it by effective legislation. The drafters propose to extend the mandate of the Supreme Court and to provide the Supreme Court with the right to make recommendations to the courts based on the generalization of judicial practice and the analysis of judicial statistics. It is also suggested that the name of the Supreme Court’s presiding positions be changed. The need to improve the individual provisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in order to improve the effectiveness of its activities as the highest judicial authority is the subject of the bill. The bill is designed to take into account recommendations made by international institutions, including recommendations made by the European Commission for Democracy through law. The Committee on Justice asks the Supreme Council to put the bill in order of the day and to consider essentially.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u165	All of you, Dmitri Mikitovich. Dear colleagues, there's a motion to vote. Please sign up. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has returned the authority of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has recently been somewhat shaken. Because of the various trumpets and restructurings that have taken place in the judicial system, we simply have to raise our authority and improve the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Court of Ukraine with a view to carrying out its tasks as defined by the law in force. I propose to include questions in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u167	Thank you. Vladimir Karpuk. You're handing Carmazine over? Yuri Carmazin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u168	I told you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, last time. Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Volodymyr Karpuk and I have a common point of view here regarding the need to regain authority today. And the question is, who let that authority go? He was the highest authority in the Supreme Court, according to the Constitution he was the highest authority in the judiciary, and the Act on the Courtship and Status of Judges that you adopted him was completely circumcised. Now you're the particles, the particles, when you're criticizing international society, you're going to return something. I am not opposed to the positions expressed by Comrade Pritika, no, but they are extremely castrated yet, as for the full-fledged Supreme Court of Ukraine, by which it is envisaged by the Constitution. So these positions are complemented by Bill 10076 Prim, which was introduced by a colleague of Helen Schustik. What she suggested is that the Supreme Court is, it turns out, has the right to conduct and analyse court statistics, study and generalize court practice, to familiarize itself with the practice of law enforcement, and to provide them with methodological assistance. Consider: To this day the Supreme Court of Ukraine has been deprived of these powers altogether. He doesn't know what's going on in lower courts. He cannot provide an explanation. He cannot cancel the clarification of lower - level plenipotentiaries. Well, that's marasmatic, so they built a court system. Because of this, I think the shustik bill, it's more serious, more, let's say, it's all-encompassing and it should be accepted as a basis and complemented by the Kiwalov and Pritika Bill. For this decision, please include you in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u169	Yes, honourable colleagues, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Courtship and the Status of Judges on the improvement of certain provisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. [[Registration numbers: 10076, 10076-1]] [[13:15:49]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I am submitting a proposal to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on increasing social benefits and wages]] [[Registration number 10214]] The reporter is Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. The reporter is Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u170	Honorable Members of Parliament! It is possible to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda only when 226 votes are present. That's why I'm convinced that the Party of Regions will support the social initiatives of the opposition that will now be declared. The point is that we are proposing to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a comprehensive law that foresees systemic reforms in the social sphere. First of all, I'll start with pension insurance. Today, pensions are calculated at an average wage of between 1900 and 900 dollars. Retirement was last completed 4 years ago at the average wage in 2006. The first thing proposed by the bill is the recalculation of pensions, their modernisation and the increase of pensions, as stipulated by the law, which was repealed by this overwhelming majority, on an average of 334 bracelets for 10 million Ukrainian pensioners. The other one. The law provides for a comprehensive approach to pension settlement. Under this law, this will be done at a minimum level of living for the disabled and in a percentage ratio depending on the category of citizens, from 110 to 150 per cent, according to this minimum standard of living. Third. The law provides for the need to recalculate the overall minimum standard of living and increase it by 30 percent. The point is that today’s consumer basket and minimum level of living do not meet any economic standards or, in fact, human survival standards. You can live for this money for the first 10 days since they were paid. And the other two decades live for nothing. Third. The bill provides for the establishment of State aid to low - income families, also based on established subsistence minimums, which should be increased by at least 30 percent. In our position, this level should be at least 2400 dollars. Next. The bill provides for a reduction of all expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u172	This law provides for a reduction of all expenditures on the President, the Government and the Supreme Council to the 2009 level. Please uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u173	Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the bill has no prospect, is extremely populist, pre-election and has no economic basis such as generosity from the bar. The author of the bill was the Minister of Economy, and should have understood that at least he had to submit a financial and economic justification for his proposals, in accordance with the Rules. Second. The bill was not in line with the principles of State pension insurance, since the differentiated amount of the pension depended, first, on the length of the insurance, i.e. on the length of the work and the size of the salary. Here I give someone 10 percent, who has 30 percent, who has 50 percent. Next, the first level tariff was introduced. 120 per cent of the minimum wage. It is simply necessary to know that a single tariff network for the first-level budget is simple, unskilled and should be at the minimum wage level. And here it is. Unfortunately, today, it does not even make up a minimum wage, it still needs to be brought to minimum wage levels. Recalculation of all pensions, well, you and I know that President Yanukovic's initiatives have already begun to modernize pensions and recalculate them. But the author, as a former minister of the economy, must understand that it requires resources, not desire, not a word from the rostrum, but resources. Next, pay for many children. Low-income families are set at the minimum subsistence level. I would also like to say that the equalization process started with the President's social initiatives, but this needs to be done gradually because resources cannot be said and done immediately. Well, of course, the most important, respected colleagues, where to take an additional 136 billion into the budget? The author does not know that the bill has no prospect and does not need to be put on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u175	Yes, Your Honor, please sign up for your position on this bill. Lesja Orobec, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u176	I give the word Arsenius Yatsenyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u177	Arsenius Yatsenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is not surprising that the faction of the Party of Regions refuses to adopt a comprehensive law aimed at restoring social justice. I understand that it is far better for the government and for the people of Ukraine to send state-owned, chartered planes, new buildings, to increase the salaries of officials, to keep President Yanukovic, to keep Kabmin, but not for 46 million Ukrainians who have the full legal right to receive these funds. And now for the sources. The sources in this bill are very clear. And I would like the committee head to spend time reading what is written in the bill and where the sources come from. First. This is about reducing all costs for the maintenance of the President's Office, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, and other civil service, which is represented by the Party of the Regions. The cost of such diversions has increased over the past two years under the authority of the Party of Regions by 10 billion dollars. The other one. This law provides for the sale of 13 state residences. It's those residences that the President uses and all your scrolls. The total cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. Third. This law prohibits the use of chartered aircraft. It's those charter planes that the Party of Regions is flying at the expense of taxpayers. And for every hour of that flight, 100,000 dollars are spent. This is enough to finance a school in a village, a school that you shut down every day. Next. We're going to eliminate the offshore companies, the offshore companies that are also under the control of the Party of the Regions. And it's those offshore companies that you've spent hundreds of millions of dollars on in the last few years. 52 billion dollars is the extra revenue we see from the cancellation of the double taxation agreement. Next. Setting the order on the customs office. We estimate that one and a half billion dollars a month does not go to the state budget. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u179	Turmanov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Then there's Pauline.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, Wednesday, as always, we have a day of opposition and we listen to our colleagues who care so much about our people. I would like to remind you that in two years, everything was fine, all social standards were resolved, schools were repaired, roads were good, and that power came today and in two years, everything was ruined. And you understand that very well. You're gonna throw in a full program. Call me when you've taken 33 billion in the history of your power to Parliament, name at least one year. I'm calling you. Ninth year. In this Hall, the Party of the Regions blocked this rostrum for six months, prevented you from working for one reason: raise poverty-stricken social standards. What did you say to the whole country? If this is done, the entire financial system in Ukraine is broken. You lied. Today Vladimir Mihajlovich confirms, and let's say, we will probably vote and say who is who today, and we will tell the truth when you froze 105 billion social payments in 2009. And you voted, 228 votes, it was your power. I just want to say a little bit about the mining profession, about the coal industry. You knocked it down, you didn't pay. Regressors who have not been regressed for three months are the only source of their existence. And you're talking here today. Today we have raised pensions, today we have raised social standards. More needs to be done, but today we must assess our economic performance in our State. And you were in power, you weren't doing anything, you were populists back then today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u181	Finish up. Pauline, please. Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u182	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u183	Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u184	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Thankfully, not everyone is suffering from amnesia. [[Memorylessness]] 2008 The International Monetary Fund has a secret memorandum, which contains three key things: Ukraine's commitment and then its authority in 2008, let's remember: the first is to freeze wages, the second is to freeze pensions and the third is to substantially raise tariffs for all and municipal payments for our citizens. [[2008]] 2009 I am introducing to the walls of this Parliament a bill on a sufficiently substantial raise in minimum wage and subsistence minimum. Those who today offer all the promotions before the elections have given no vote. 2008 Expenditure on the Cabinet of Ministers increased by 17.5 percent (2008). Expenditures on the Supreme Council have increased, and expenditures on the President have increased by more than 27 percent. Dear friends, no comment. For hypocrisy and hypocrisy are not commented upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[on the increase of social benefits and wages]] [[Registration number 10214]] [[13:27:58]] For-59 The decision is not taken. Honorary colleagues are invited to consider the issue of inclusion in the agenda, namely the draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on the development of mass tourism in Ukraine and prejudice to the speculative overvalue of hotel services during the Euro-2012]] Sergey Teryohin, please. None. I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the day. [[13:28:45]] For-31 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is under review. How will we view it? By full procedure or by no means? How many articles do we have here? Please report, National Deputy of Ukraine Arsenij Yatsenuk. The Coroner is the first deputy head of the Hennaday Moskal Committee. Short or full, as you suggest?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u186	Whatever you say, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Let's talk about corruption in full, I think, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u187	Well, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u188	There's something to talk about. Honorable Members of Parliament! For your consideration, a comprehensive Act on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau is proposed. The short story of this issue is that Parliament has tried several times to create an organ that really fights corruption. However, such a bill has never been voted on in Parliament’s walls, and the reasons are perfectly clear. Today, a number of law enforcement agencies in Ukraine are fighting corruption. These are the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, these are the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, these are security agencies, these are a series of audit offices and other departments that are all actively fighting corruption. They have defeated corruption. Because every one of them who fights corruption has led her! Each of them, who, according to today’s law, is authorized to fight corruption, is one of those to be planted, and is one who is a real corrupter! The point is that today in Ukraine corruption has exceeded all possible and impossible limits in the last two years. Look at the statistics and how Ukraine is assessed as a country with an incredible level of corruption. Yes, Transparency International 2011 gives a figure on where Ukraine is at the same level of corruption as 134. We have this place along with such advanced, democratic countries as Ukraine, which President Yanukovic is driving, namely Zimbabwe, Togo and Sierra Leone. The Swiss company IMD, which rated the most corrupt countries in Europe, stated that Ukraine is included at the lowest level of scale in the worst corruption. Ernst & Young conducted research among Ukrainians and entrepreneurs on the level of corruption in the country. 91 percent of all entrepreneurs said they took bribes. There's nothing you can do without a bribe in the country! Without bribes today, you can't put a child in a nursery because you have to pay a bribe. Without a bribe, a court decision cannot be obtained. And you can get it any way you want, depending on the amount of money that comes in the envelope. You can't get a job without a bribe. You can't get a government order without a bribe. No State support can be obtained without a bribe. Without bribes you can't get any in a row, including in Euro 2012, for infrastructure projects, for anything that provides for money. Today's corruption is headed by a valid president and a valid party of power. Such a level of corruption, which is today in the country, has never been. Is there any way to overcome this corruption? Of course there is. And this is the task of the united opposition of the democratic parliamentary forces. Total change in power and change in the system of fighting corruption is what's in the order of the day country. First of all, the issue is that corruption, which is led by the head of state, the head of government and the overpowered party, will never be overcome. So our main task is to change power. Our main task is a new, high-quality Ukrainian authority, which will not lead corruption, but will persecute those who have been involved in corruption and will carry out a full and complete anti-corruption illustration. What kind of body is needed for the country? We think that dozens of sub-units, so-called anti-corruption units, are only doing one function -- they're collecting data, they're collecting money from Ukrainians, they have cars, houses, planes. These are the people who seem to be fighting corruption, but they are the ones who led it today. In view of this, we propose to withdraw the powers of dozens of structures today, which under appropriate legislation, this is the Criminal Procedure Act, this is the Ukrainian Security Service Act, this is the Ukrainian Police Act, this is the Ukrainian Audit Service Act, which seems to be fighting corruption. For your consideration, there is a law that provides for the creation of a single body, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Where did this proposal come from, and whose experience was it in drafting the bill? In the 1930s, in the United States, corruption was not the same as in Ukraine, because corruption like Ukraine is hard to find in historical descriptions of both the past and the future. But in the United States, the fight against corruption and banditry, because it's actually banditry, was solved in the 1930s by the creation of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The same idea is suggested by us and the same idea was introduced in a number of European countries. For example, our partners in Poland also have a single national anti-corruption body. This anticorruption body assumes all the persecutors of all the corruption that is provided for today’s criminal law. One thing that needs to be stopped is that the country needs to change both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Codes, as the current standards of anti-corruption legislation provide such an incomprehensible definition of both corruption and inadequacy of punishment that today corruption is often found in the cabinets of government and unfortunately in the walls of parliament. So our job is to create a new national anti-corruption office. The creation of such an office will not take place at the expense of the state budget. The point is that we're going to create this office on the basis of funding the expenses that a bunch of law enforcement agencies are getting today. We're going to take funding and material and technical support from today's anti-corruption bodies, and we're going to hand it over to the new national anti-corruption body. The other one. The subordination and subordination of such an organ. In view of the fact that President Yanukovic has not constitutionally regained all the powers that no president has, yes, and in fact no president has today in any republican country and in the presidential state, we believe that such an organ should be subordinated to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President has the right to submit to the head of such a body, but it is only for Parliament to decide on the appointment of the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, which will restore the balance of power in the country. Those who take the lead in corruption cannot fight it. Thus, the President cannot appoint the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Parliament will regain its mandate: to exercise control, to exercise the powers of balance with the Presidential Authority, to exercise the powers of three powers. Our next task is anti-corruption illustration. It is the authority of the National Anticorruption Bureau that this office is obliged to conduct a presentation of all officials, beginning with the President of Ukraine and ending with the head of the district office. This is about testing the assets and assets of both these officials and their families. I'm stressing separately about family members. This amendment, which was made by opposition to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, is not made by the Party of Regions, because the Party of Regions is well aware of the fact that the actual declarations on how much money is stolen from the budget for the Party of Power are tens of billions, and this money is usually written for family members today. So our job is to check the assets, assets, incomes and expenses of all government officials and family members. There is no secret that the members of the government and the President's Administration this year have shown the declarations that have been accepted on our request. Only according to the stated figures, what the President showed, the Head of Administration, the Prime Minister and all the ministers, the revenue of the government, 20 people, had grown by one and a half billion dollars last year -- that's just what they showed in the declarations. The total income of 20 people today is 2.1 billion dollars -- that's what the declaration also showed. And the total assets of today's party of power are 26 billion dollars -- these are the estimates of the correspondents. This amount is equal to the total revenue of the state budget. How come 20 people do not own 46 million Ukrainians? Our Anti-Corruption Act and our National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act is a real war against corruption, it's a real war today with those who are robbing the people of Ukraine, it's a real victory in fighting corruption and destroying the power of the corruption class as such. Please pass the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u189	Sign up for questions if you have. Yes, please, five minutes, Leapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u190	Thank you. Xenia Lapina, Party for Ukraine! Arsenius Petrovich, I think you understand very well that this law is unlikely to be fulfilled today. And it can hardly be expected that today's majority in parliament will actually appoint an anti-corruption bureauman to be the head of an anti-corruption office who is capable and willing to fight corruption. I think we all understand that this is, rather, the law for the future. Do I understand that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u191	Dear Mrs. Kseniya! Regrettably, the situation is that in voting all the opposition bills are laws, indeed, of the future, because the Party of Regions does not support any opposition initiative: neither by recalculating pensions, nor by increasing wages, nor by fighting corruption, nor by banning the elimination of secondary schools, nor by banning the closure of hospitals. No initiative is supported today. Why? Because they shut down hospitals and spend money on their personal assets and incomes because they steal billions and think no one will be responsible. Responsibility will certainly come. The National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act will be passed. And I would like to remind you that we have a package of amendments to the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act and a series of procedural changes to the Criminal Procedure Code. It is also about quality new articles in the Criminal Code. This is our anti-corruption package. With this package, we're going to the polls. This package will be adopted immediately after the 2012 parliamentary campaign by a democratic majority in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u192	Jaroslav Jojik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u193	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People's Party. Dear Arsen Petrovich, Ukrainian legislation today does not contain any direct norm that makes it necessary to declare the expenses of senior officials and members of their families. And our legislation does not oblige law enforcement not only to monitor the inadequacy of income and expenditure but also, if there is such an inadequacy, to hold such officials accountable. As you think, there may be a real fight against corruption until this mandatory declaration of the expenses of officials and members of their families is introduced, and it is the duty of law enforcement agencies to monitor the appropriateness.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u194	Dear colleague Jojik, thank you so much for asking. That was the difference between the opposition bill and the bill adopted by the overwhelming majority. I remind you that when the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act was passed, the opposition insisted: First. On the mandatory declaration of all expenses of all government officials. The other one. to include in the statement on the income and expenditure of government officials not only directly officials and members of the direct family who have been defined as "those persons who live together with the official, wife and children" but all who are in family relations. Knowing that opposition is actually insisting on revealing all the property that government officials have, because it's no secret that. Who are we rich enough to have a party of powers? Not ministers. The woman, the relatives, the track, the wedding, they all get incomprehensible billions of dollars. That is why the offer of opposition was rejected. The only standard they've included is a one-time declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u195	Arkallayev. Carpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u196	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, thank you for your important bill. And an important novelty, the new scope of your bill is the subordination, accountability and control of the Supreme Council over the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as the right of parliament to release and appoint a leader, its first deputy and deputy. But as they said yesterday, just as our bracelet course will be flexible, we don't know how flexible, and the policy of the National Bureau can be flexible, depending on what waves will be in Parliament. Since we see that these changes are not or are not a threat to the subjugation of certain political forces, it is the activities of the Anti-Corruption Bureau and the use of them to combat other political forces that the time given is with opposition. Although, I do understand, the relationship between an independent body and making changes to the Constitution, if you create such an organ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u197	Thank you for asking. I will just complete the answer to the previous question concerning the declaration. A party of regions left only one rule, which provides for the obligation to declare expenses, is a one - time cost of 150,000 dollars. One hundred and fifty thousand dollars is 150 months' average earnings for Ukrainians. Well, that's probably how they spend 150,000 dollars a day. In this way they have deprived themselves of, in fact, the need to make a declaration of expenditure. As for your question. The task of this law is to restore the balance of power in the country. Look what's happening in these walls right now. Is there any effect on the people's MP who is in Parliament's walls? The paradox is that I'm not talking about the opposition right now, because the opposition with the people can block the rostrum and they'll hear it. Do those who represent today’s authority have any influence? The only MP is one who learns to wave his hands and decides to be a member of parliament for which to vote and not vote. The task of this law is to empower Parliament, to give Parliament powers that balance the unlimited power of the current President. Today, Parliament has become the administration of the President's Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u198	Thank you. The committee is Moskal Hennaday Hennadiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u199	Dear National Deputies! So get some sleep, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is about a serious issue, and you've torn up the mess with corruption, and you don't want to listen. Dear National Deputies! On 22 November 2010, Mr. Janukovic was handed over to the President of Ukraine for a meeting of the Ukrainian-European Union Commission. The president of Ukraine took it. And if you did, the honorable Party of Regions, you should do it. It is written clearly: the creation of a single and independent anti-corruption body. Either against us joining the European Union, or you're against liberalisation and the visa-free regime, or you're just a few people. If the President has taken it, you must support him. This time. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not fulfilled the basic obligations we have made internationally. And it is in this law that they must be fulfilled. It's an examination of you, Your Honor. Who says to keep my voice down, I will speak even louder to hear the whole of Ukraine today. If you don't vote, it's your test of whether you want to fight corruption or if you still want to lead it. The law that was passed with regard to preventing and resisting corruption gave absolutely nothing. Why is today the Ministry of Justice secreting the only register of corruptionists? Because there are some heads of the village councils, deputies of the village councils, and most of the major experts in the district government, that's 90 percent. The total amount of corruption committed is 15 percent of the law that Mr. Omelchenk once drafted in 1975. In fact, there are no indicators today. Today, if we move on, 150,000, Arsenija Petrovich did not say to the end that 150,000 is 16 positions that can be declared absolutely undeclared. Dear Party of Regions, wake up! 98 percent of the population in Ukraine lacks income of 150,000 dollars a year, and there is no such income. And you've declared 16 positions once -- it's 2 million 400,000 dollars to spend without a declaration. You know, in England there's the Anti-Corruption Act, which was adopted back in 1895, and it's still in effect today. And we couldn't have even done the international responsibilities we had undertaken and introduced the notion of "corruption" into the Ukrainian Criminal Code. And we were told by the President's Administration: there's a bribe. Bribery is bribe, sorry, and corruption is corruption. People today say that when money is collected in a village, where are they going? To the area. If they're coming from the area, they're heading to the area. If it's from the area, it's going to Kiev. That's where they go in Kiev, and that's where an independent anti-corruption body has to be created. Where are they going? They go to the Supreme Council, they go to the Cabinet, the Ministry, the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court? No one knows that. Your Honor, Parliament is so corrupt in corruption that it can't adopt the Biometric Passports Act, the fourth bill you're failing, and it's a fight for money that's more likely to rob a small Ukrainian. On the one hand, there are social initiatives, on the other hand, there are bills. It's like ten times that I'm gonna take all the social initiatives. The Supreme Council Committee therefore fully supports the bill. And I want the people of Ukraine today to see if they support their own party of presidents.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u200	Yes, dear colleagues, no questions yet? Sign up for the performance. Yes, now from the deputies. Dear colleagues, we cannot complete it today if we all speak out on this matter. Look. No discussion. Well, no talking about it, it's like they signed up. Let's do it this way: that comes from factions and we'll make decisions. Well, he won't, then we'll see if he doesn't go or next Wednesday. If you will consider next Wednesday, you will discuss it. Yeah, well, whatever. Well, the thing is, there are other measures that are also being broadcast. Yes, please, Stretovich. After him, Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head! The question that we're discussing right now is out of date. For the first time in the modern - day history of Ukraine in 1996, it was a session hall. It was called a question of creating a National Bureau of Investigation with appropriate powers. But then political debates, and most of the fears of those in this room, were not allowed to create this institution, which is now practically existing in every country that is independent of the political influences that are filled with professionals, modern technology and is doing the right work. I want to tell you that corruption as a material phenomenon, whether it's a bribe with a bag of dollars, or a trip to a resort, or paying for a trip, or buying an apartment, or a gift of a car, as it was recently with the minister of the interior, can be combated. Because it's not "thank you," it's not "thank you," it's not "God bless you," it's not a word of a virtual character. It has a material basis. And since we've loaded ourselves into these material bases, we're essentially going to undermine the foundation of government, because lately, especially without bribes, we can't solve any questions. Like me, I think you're watching the latest news every day. And look, one of them died in the Vinnitz region, 36 years old, who told doctors that I had poor health there, I couldn't give birth naturally, make me a Caesarean section. The doctors said, "No, no, no! That's impossible!" They were waiting for a bribe! They expected to be paid for this service! An anesthesiologist, when a woman is in the rahman’s, rahman’s, and gives birth to a child, waits for this anesthesia to be introduced because he knows what he will get paid when it is possible to do without it! It's come to that! In order for relatives to take the body of a dead man from the morgue in Chernów, it was necessary to pay a thousand dollars for him to allow it. Because the whole procedure was in place, she was ready to sing his final prayers! What have we come to?Oh, my God! I'm not talking about the government level, colleagues! I'm talking about the household level! What's scary is that when 5 years ago sociology showed that 52 percent were willing to bribe, the 2012 sociology in Ukraine showed 67 percent of the citizens -- willing to bribe to solve the issue! What are we training for?Oh, my God! Where are we going?Oh, my God! What European Union?Oh, my God! We've got to make a touch or a tease! So we just don't have any alternatives. Talk about the flaws in the bills? But they're in every bill. But we need to give a signal to Europe in the context of the future ratification of the Association Agreement today. And if Parliament votes today, in the process of redrafting second reading, we can take into account all the proposals and create a really independent, unbiased, apolitical professional body that will fight evil. I urge you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u202	Baranov. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u203	Dear friends! I was mayor of the city of Berdjanska for ten years. And I faced corruption, from time to time, to become a member, Leonidas Danilovich became mayor in 1998, and I faced corruption when Yushchenko Victor Andreevich came to power, a group of comrades from Kiev came to me, sat in the office, and told me how much the chief of the port should pay per month, what the BTI chief should pay. And that I have to fire everyone and appoint "nationally conscious" comrades, in most of my bayanists, physical teachers, writers and poets. I've kicked these comrades out of the office, and since then I've had a lot of trouble with law enforcement. It's me to remember where we got very powerful corruption. This corruption has indeed taken over today, it has grown, it has grown to a very wide extent. But what I'm offering us today is complete absurd. It is a misunderstanding of educated people that the fight against investigations never solves the problem. The reason for corruption is not in the anti-corruption office, which will also have to pay bribes. And the cause of corruption in the administrative system that we have is nowhere else. When you have to get a certificate, agree, pay, ask, get permission. And you're going to have to control 8 structures that perform the same function. That's the problem! We need to carry out administrative reform and eliminate dozens of ministries and agencies, along with their territorial units. That's the reason! And then we will have no basis for this corruption. And then you can create an anti-corruption office. And today if we create it with you, we even put it here, and you say power is all mafia and corruption. Who's gonna let him work?Oh, my God! Therefore, the reasons, not the investigations, must be removed. In this room, we suffer mainly from populism. And today we're talking about making this decision -- it's completely absurd -- it's populism before the elections. And this is when it is said that when the opposition is speaking with the bills and we do not support them, it is a disaster for the provincial coalition. Nope. I don't personally support it because it's mostly bullshit. I have not met or seen any reasonable draft law, either in economic terms or in local government or in housing and utilities. That's why it's populism and absurd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u204	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we are now considering a very serious bill prepared by the author, the leader of the opposition. And I think that this bill should be considered in the context of the President's anti-corruption strategy. In other words, the author has placed his shoulders under the President's programme to combat corruption in an uncompromising manner. You could say he's going with the President in the same harness. That's very commendable, very commendable. But after not delaying my time, I want to turn to the opposition. Today, I speak for the radio audience, 200 people have gathered, but the leader of the opposition is 200 in the hall. Don't smile, don't smile. The committee's deputy said: "The people of Ukraine must know who will vote and who will not. It will be a test of the confidence of the opposition to its leader." And as the first deputy to the committee head said in a more clear and aphoristic way, "This is going to be a test on the whole of the opposition." Let one of the two hundred opposition men try not to support his leader's bill. I propose to support and appeal to the opposition. 200 people in the hall, press the buttons! This is a test of your supremacy to the people of Ukraine. It's a test of trust before the leader of the opposition. Support your leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, we've got five more national deputies, I'm offering two minutes. And that's how we put ourselves in. Please, Olinick Volodymyr, two minutes. The next one is Wonderful.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, the highest level of corruption was at a time when the rapporteur for this law was leading Parliament. It was in that year that the Dereserve was a derelict of 7 billion; it was in that year when the land, the budget; it was also the year that they began to build and were all elements of the breakup of the future, and today we're looking for who was the extreme; it was the year that Parliament could control the government; it was another form of government -- the parliamentary-presidential government, but they didn't do anything and they didn't raise it. We will certainly adopt this law, but in our own edition, which does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine, because you, a lawyer, should know that if the Constitution stipulates that power in Ukraine is divided into legislative, executive and judicial authorities, there is no way to re-propose the formula for the legislative branch of power to appoint, control, manage the executive structure. You don't know it's going to be another corruption. So in this respect, we can't accept your proposal to support the anti-constitutional law. So you're absolutely wrong when you say that you don't need additional funding to seriously modernize, to create this structure. Once again, there must be proper wages so that those who work on corruption schemes will not be drawn. Therefore, we will take this matter seriously and, within the framework of the concept proposed by the President of Ukraine regarding the reform of criminal justice bodies, we will certainly adopt the Anti-Corruption Committee Act and hopefully, with the help of the Ukrainian people, break the neck of corruption as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u208	Strange. And I don't see any wonder.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u209	Please pass the word to Vernidub Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u210	Please, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u211	As soon as there is a serious danger for the Fatherland, I understand that there is a parliamentary or presidential election, both on the billboards, in the media, on the rostrums of various levels, a formidable figure of the commander of the vast opposition anti-corruption front of Arsenia with numerous mobilization calls for intent and readiness to fight corruption. I'm getting this from the archives of naphthalene-smelling calls, including bills that have already been considered here, in this room, and that have been rejected as those that are prepared in haste and unqualified. Such a powerful example is the bill that we are considering today. The bill provides for the establishment of a state law enforcement body with special status in the fight against corruption and official crimes with the right to draw up protocols on administrative offences, to conduct operational investigations and to investigate. At the 66th meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on July 7, 2010, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on the National Anti-Corruption Committee, introduced by Yatsenuk, was also discussed. [[Registration number 5437]] Compared to Bills 9746 and 5437, no amendments to Bill No. 9746 have been made. This bill is a new version of the previously rejected bill. Analysing the provisions of the bill, it is assumed that a number of its provisions do not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine and do not comply with the requirements of Ukrainian law. Yes, the bill of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives additional powers to form a national anti-corruption office, to appoint and release officials and to control financial and economic activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u212	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri. Behind him is Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u213	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! I was very sorry to hear from some colleagues in the vast majority that they had tried to offend the author. I mean, this is not a method of fighting political opponents. You've already applied methods of torture, using contemplation, everything else. Insulting is also not a method. The opposition will win, and this bill has the right to exist, because in that CPC that you have adopted, this body is already written. You must accept this law. Don't you like having Parliament appoint a head and deputy head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau? Yeah, who likes it? In Europe, has anyone acknowledged how you changed the way the Constitution was changed? No one admitted it. You've changed the Constitution in a fraudulent way -- here's what you did. Because of this, it is absolutely right to suggest that Parliament, where all factions are, should influence and that a leader is appointed for seven years. It was still in my project that I gave 12 years ago. He reported in this room. Seven years because he doesn't depend on the President. It is quite right that 1,500 people will be there. And the first deputy, and so on. And for this Anti-Corruption Bureau, I'm already giving one of the first candidates. This is Kozak, the head of the Crucifixion, who is now destroying this completely needed state institution. Little did they do in 2005 with 10,000 wagons — 10,000 wagons! – they're canceling trains at night and so on and so forth. This is a corrupt nursery. Cossack is one of the first customers for this office. Mr. Chechetov, please write this down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u214	Eugene Suslov, please. It's on him, Jojik. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u215	I'd like a word with Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the principle of the question, and I think it's not funny here when we're talking about the fundamental problem of the Ukrainian state and the Ukrainian society, which is called corruption. It is obvious that we need to look for a tool that will allow a radical way out and start fighting corruption. And it's clear that without an independent institution that doesn't go or call the President's Administration, election headquarters or any other structure, we can't expect the beginning of the fight against this corruption to happen. I'm just going to give you an example of how the D.A.'s office today, the police, other institutions that start in the morning to make you understand, in the district administration's office, that the head of the district administration is gathering a police chief, a prosecutor's office and saying, "Who else is here, which means, of the opposition, is not satisfied with our own authority, our own home party?" And they give instructions on how to do things. On the Kiev level, I realize that it's the same story. Do you have any doubt that there will be a real fight against corruption when these structures are completely subordinated to the President's representatives? I'm giving you an example, so I started to look at court cases, well, generally known as Timoshenko, after Lucenko, after Yvashchenko. I took the case against Danielishin, Danielisin accused the prosecution of having ordered the construction of a parking lot in Borispol for 449 million, against him, a criminal case had been opened against him. So I'll tell you this: in a year, Mikola Azarov and the Cabinet of Ministers signed a document, also with the same performer, the same kid who signed it for the same amount, three thousand parking places, and two thousand, that is, for a third, they stole it. In Daniels ’ case is not closed, but against Azarov, I have a question: Will Kuzmin open a criminal case or Pshonka? I listened to our leader, KMDA Popov, who said that he had stolen 70 billion dollars from the Černovetské team. Yesterday they hugged, Chernewsky from Tel Aviv flew in, hugged, kissed and said, "We're protecting the Chinese and Ukrainian capital together." Even though one criminal case about KMDA leaders is open and will be completed today? Of course not. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u217	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u218	I'm done. I am absolutely convinced that not today, so tomorrow we must create an independent institution that will not call, not consult in the party, but fight corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u219	Jojik Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u220	Jaroslav Jojik, Ukrainian People’s Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the project is designed on the basis of departments to create a maximum independent body in modern conditions that is the only one to deal with the issue of combating corruption. Without questioning the very purpose of forming a maximum independent body, I would like to draw attention to the following. In our view, the only lakh paper that has been tested worldwide, which clearly and unequivocally demonstrates the desire or unwillingness of the authorities to carry out a real fight against corruption, is not just the mandatory declaration of income and expenditure of senior officials but necessarily of their families, and the mandatory investigation of the rightful structures of income and expenditure. But that is the order most feared by today’s authorities. Regrettably, as of today, Ukrainian legislation does not contain any clear direct norm for declaring the income and expenses of officials and their families, nor does it oblige the law enforcement authorities to investigate such inadequacies, nor does it give them the right to investigate such inadequacies. And any attempt to change this legislation is being blocked by today's power. And Ukrainian realities are that the wealth of the members of the family of the respective officials is dozens of times different from that of the officials themselves. An unarmed eye can see a significant inadequacy. Thus, we believe that until such time as a mandatory clear declaration of the income and expenses of officials and their families is introduced, and the duty of law enforcement authorities to trace these things, none, not even the most independent body.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u221	Thank you. Arsenius Petrovich, please. No, I'm sorry, no. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about the law, but about a member of the Party of the Regions who just said from the rostrum of Parliament that they're going to break the back of corruption. I demand a criminal case against this deputy because it is an attempt on the life of the President, the Prime Minister, the ministers and the Attorney General. Now for the law. Take the decision to vote on the bill, just as it is the only law that will allow for a real fight against corruption. Your failure to vote for this law means only one thing: You still want to rob a country as you rob it, you still think that you will not answer at all. I'm going to give you a very clear answer: The time to throw stones is up, and now it's time to lay them down. We'll put these stones on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u223	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. [[Registration number 9746]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:13:59]] For-33 Not accepted. The factions. The Party of Regions and Fatherland did not vote, "Our Ukraine" 26, Communists and the People's Party did not vote, "Reforms for the Future" - 2, non-fractional - 5. Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u224	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Bill 10156 -- on the establishment of the Temporary Commission of Inquiry -- was under consideration today. We very much ask to put it to a vote and consider, to be able to consider it today, right on Wednesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-23-m0.u225	I can only do this with the permission of the session room. Who's in charge of looking at the draft TSC regulation now? [[Registration number 10156]] Please vote. [[14:15:06]] For-173 The decision is not supported. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Dear colleagues, I remind you that at 3 p.m., we have a parliamentary hearing here with you.
