ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:43]] They registered in the 399 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, allow me to say hello on your behalf: Irina Volodymyrno Herachenko, Vasil Vasilovich Demchisen and Vladimir Ivanovich Lichuk are born and wish them success, good health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 24 to 27 April 2012. There were three plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 34 issues of the agenda were discussed, as a result of their consideration: two laws and 11 regulations were passed, 12 bills and one draft decree were rejected. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please register representatives of the MP factions and groups for the performance. Please put the names of the national MPs on. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u2	Ukraine has never intervened in the internal affairs of other countries by intensifying civil strife and religious conflicts with mass casualties among the civilian population in order to achieve its mercantile goals. Ukraine has never dropped a bomb on the capital of European and non-European states. Ukraine has never intervened in a political struggle within other countries, seeking to bring one of the more competitive, more guided and obedient, to power by discrediting the other side. Ukraine did not illegally and violently expel ethnic minorities from its territory. Ukraine did not prohibit its citizens from wearing national clothes. Ukraine did not place secret prisons in its territory. It was not Ukraine that falsified the court of deliberate murder by firing a tank of Ukrainian and Spanish journalists. Finally, Ukraine did not abolish the punishment for incest, nor did Ukraine at the national level, covering up Christian party names, sanctifying other things that are hostile to Christian values. Unlike many who believe that they have the right to be our mentors and educators, Ukraine has not done or will not do anything. The staged and directed campaign of pressure and humiliation on Ukraine is really less than a campaign against power, as some think and want. The story of the boycott of Euro-2012 is the contempt and superiority of the newly established older brothers to millions of Ukrainians living on the lookout for a football holiday, which is the work of technology and a system of pressure on a sovereign country, which is being established by those who, not in declarations, but in their practical activities, have never in practice wanted or wanted to see Ukraine in the European Union under any Ukrainian authority. By the same logic, then, please boycott sports competitions in many other countries where former presidents and prime ministers came before the prosecution. Is it Ukraine that is chosen by a polygon? Despite the inspired anti - Ukrainian campaign, Ukraine is not a country of prostitutes, not a country of total criminality, where every foreigner is in danger. Or maybe those who believe that the anti-Ukrainian campaign is, among other things, a desire to divert attention from 24 percent of the unemployment rate in Spain, two trillion euro of the holding in Italy, from the deep financial and credit crisis and the signs of the institutional collapse of the entire euro area, and also from the staggering losses in national and regional elections in their countries. And finally. The Ukrainian people themselves will determine who to have in power without the guidance of the curators and conductors. If most Ukrainian citizens believe that the previous authorities, who want to return to power again for more than five years, have led the country to economic prosperity, built a fair modern system of justice, defeated corruption, was a model of honesty, efficiency and unity for the benefit of the people, if that's what Ukrainian citizens think, then only their right to return or leave someone in power. And this is going to be an axiom for all of our pseudos and real benefactors, regardless of their claims and ambitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u3	Andrew Kožemiakin, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u4	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! I think it's worth reminding you that the BUT faction is "The Fatherland" and "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" have blocked the Supreme Council, demanding that the torture of Yulia Timoshenko be stopped and that the guilty be punished on April 20th of this year. Our demands remain unchanged. At the same time, the faction stopped the blockade, as these minutes are the opening of a court hearing on the appeal of Julia Timoshenko in a so - called gas case. We no longer trust the Ukrainian judiciary. We support our leader by our presence during the examination of the cassation. That's why my colleagues aren't in the courtroom right now. Today's Supreme Council meeting should begin with an extraordinary situation in which our country is faced. The sharp, negative statements and critical evaluation by the leaders of the European Union and the democratic world of the processes that are taking place in our country have shown that Ukraine is on the verge of total international isolation. Angela Merkel, chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, said that in Ukraine people suffer from dictatorship and repression. Throughout the history of independence, this is the worst and most disturbing assessment of the present state. There is good reason for such strong criticism from the democratic part of the world. Soon it will be six months since the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has placed simple demands on us: to harmonise the criminal legislation of Ukraine with European standards, to stop political repression and to release the illegally condemned Yulia Timoshenko and other opposition politicians. So far no step has been taken to meet at least one of these requirements. Instead, the authorities moved on to more radical, violent actions that took place on April 20 in the Kachanov Colony. The Henprocurator’s representatives cynically claim that the violence against Julia Timoshenko was and the beating was not. But no one was brought to justice for this crime. Even the transfer of Julia Timoshenko to a hospital under the pressure of the world’s society has turned the authorities into physical and psychological tortures against her. A German doctor who treats Julia Timoshenko claims that it is not possible to carry out treatment under such conditions. It is legal that these actions of power cause a wave of outrage among the leaders of the democratic countries of the world. President of Lithuania warned Viktor Yanukovic. That Ukraine is guaranteed international isolation on the part of the European Union if the authorities fail to guarantee legal protection for the leaders of the Ukrainian opposition. And the political boycott will quickly turn into an economic one. If our authorities are not afraid of this because their preservation and ownership abroad will have terrible consequences for the Ukrainian people. That is why the Supreme Council must assume responsibility – and stop Ukraine from sliding into a dictatorship that will bring our state to a halt. The Faction "BUT – "Paternity" proposes to comply immediately with one of the main requirements of the Resolution: to adopt the Law on the Harmonization of Ukrainian Criminal Law with European Standards. That is, canceling the Soviet, exclusively political, criminal articles condemned by Julia Timoshenko is the most indignant thing in Europe and the world. We refer to President Yanukovic, the parliamentary majority, stop revenge, remember common sense, listen to Europe’s calls, listen to the people, do not allow the breakup of the Euro-2012, manifest humanism, and free Timoshenko and other political prisoners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u5	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergei Kiwalov, please. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u6	Dear colleagues present, a meeting of the Legal and Human Rights Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was held on 26 April this year to discuss Ukraine's implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Our State's implementation of the Strasbourg Court's decision can be seen as an indicator of respect for human rights in Ukraine. I would like to recall that Ukraine is unfortunately one of the ten troubled countries in which the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights is systemic and structural. In 2009, a pilot judgement was issued against Ukraine by the European Court of Justice. Such decisions have also been made with regard to other States, in particular Poland, four such pilot decisions have been issued. By 2012, however, Ukraine had proved to be the first country to fail to comply with the requirement of a pilot's decision, and that would have significantly worsened the authority of our State. I am deeply convinced that the enforcement mechanisms of the European Court of Justice should be a priority for Ukraine. There are two bills currently before Parliament on second reading that can relieve the tension on this issue. First of all, it was the idea of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation with regard to the enjoyment of human rights for the review of judicial decisions. The current law is that the Supreme Court of Ukraine is currently in the process of reviewing the judgements of the court in connection with the recognition by the European Court of Human Rights of violations of the convention in the first instance. The judgement of the European Court of Human Rights in the Cornev and Carpenco v. Ukraine case was rendered on 21 January 2011. The Supreme Court was brought before the Supreme Court on 11 April 2011. The paradox is that our legislation does not have a procedure for reviewing decisions on administrative offences. In other words, we, parliamentarians, without considering the bill, force the Supreme Court of Ukraine to break the time limit for the case, thus pushing that a decision by the European Court of Justice not to consider the law may be handed down against Ukraine. In addition, the draft Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments has long been before Parliament. This bill will enable Ukraine to implement the European Court of Justice decision in the Jury Ivanov v. Ukraine case and prevent such violations in the future. I would like to point out that next week there will be a meeting of the Legal and Human Rights Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to be held on 21 May. The members of the Committee asked the Ukrainian delegation to report on the progress made in the consideration of these crucial two bills. Therefore, I would like once again to call upon you, deeply respected people's deputies, to support these two bills and to show that human and citizen rights in Ukraine are respected and protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u7	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u8	Dear fellow citizens! Dear colleagues! I have good news for Ukraine and bad news for the authorities. The Ukrainian opposition did not just unite; it produced and launched a clear agenda for public discussion, a strategic change plan for the country. A prerequisite for its implementation is the overthrow of the current regime and the arrangement of Ukraine without Yanukovic. The just state, the honest power, the dignity of life, are the directions for the united opposition, these are the things that the European state needs, the things that have been taken from Ukraine by the Yanukovic regime. The united opposition has seven main tasks, seven steps toward a successful new Ukraine. First. Destroy the system of lawlessness and total corruption built in Ukraine. Away from the power of its creator, Yanukovich. Disposal of the posts of its so-called governors of the districts. The local authorities must be chosen by the people. The other one. We're going to put power under the control of society. The president, the national MPs, the judges -- they all have to be deprived of the touch, they all have to be accountable to the people. Third. We will restore justice to the state. Not the tenants will decide the fate of the people, the judiciary will be fully updated, the court will be able to defend itself not for money, but for justice. We will free Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and other prisoners of conscience. Four. Corruptionrs will bear strict responsibility. Each official and all members of his family will be tested as severely as possible. Business and power will be clearly divided. If you're honest, you can either be an official or you can be a businessman. You can't give a third. Fifth. Our energetic entrepreneurial people will have the importance of making and earning money. The repressive tax code of the name Tihypak will be cancelled, the taxes will be 7, not 700, enough defeats and masks. Our economy will be freed from the bureaucratic fiscal yoke and it will finally work. Six. This will enable the establishment of decent wages and just pensions for all Ukrainians. The subsistence minimum will be two thousand and 400 bracelets. There's money for that if you stop stealing. Pensions will be fair. The bureaucrat won't get a cloudy sum just because he's in office. We will restore amendment 40 to pension legislation and 10 million pensioners will receive an additional 334 bracelets, not 100 as promised by today’s government before the elections. Seven. National acquisition – Ukraine's gas transport system will not be given to anyone, and instead of expensive Russian gas, we will switch to cheap domestic energy. Many of these proposals have already been challenged in this Supreme Council -- dozens of smart, useful bills for Ukraine. But all of them were sabotaged, failed by the vast majority. For example, Arsenius Yatsenyuk's proposal on the already mentioned increase in pensions for raising social standards by reducing spending on the authorities, establishing a jury court, personally voting on MPs, and many others. [[Amendment No 40]] All these bills await their time, they will be adopted by a new parliament, a new democratic majority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u9	Vladimir Capillanko, please, the Reform Group for the Future, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u10	Honourable National MPs, honourable citizens, the MP's "For the Future" group has repeatedly stated that the implementation of socio-economic reforms refers to the priorities of our actions. The social security system, medicine, education, and the scientific sphere certainly require modernization. However, such changes should be full-scale, consistent and aimed at achieving the main strategic goal of effectively raising the standard of living of an average citizen and restoring the balance of justice in society. We must work and move forward and fight the only real enemy in this country -- our poverty. It is known that the Economic Reform Committee decided that the government should submit by July 2 a list of legislation aimed at liberalizing business, simplifying regulatory and arbitrary procedures. We call for speeding up this process, because there will in fact be no time for effective parliamentary work after July 2. This political forecast is evident today when many have launched and run an electoral campaign right in this sessionary hall. But apart from time constraints, there are other risks that affect the quality of reforms. The great risk is that reform in the country, in our view, begins to take a wrong course, a substitute for concepts. Here's a piece of paper that defines the priorities of the Cabinet of Ministers for the plenary week. There are 53 bills. If we step out of the social reform announced by the President of Ukraine, all government efforts should be aimed at creating an additional income portion of the State budget and raising the level of social standards. Among these are two bills for the implementation of the EU's requirements, five regulatory projects, there are laws that are close to and around property rights and there are no social rights. In this draft of the Customs Tariff Act, Ukraine needs further attention as a typical expression of primitiveism in the search for additional budget revenues. Because it actually, on the one hand, seems to be bringing import duty rates to the WTO criteria, and on the other hand, it will actually lead to a total increase in all kinds of goods for Ukrainians by 10, 20, 30, 40 percent. This is still unknown today because this process is not guided. This suggests that additional revenue to the budget, including social reform, is offered at the expense of a total increase in prices in the internal market, i.e. at the expense of ordinary citizens. So where is the balance, expertise, justice and, in fact, social reform? In this case, instead of effective economic decisions, the primitive slogan works, "Put it in your right pocket, but before that, give it to the left." We, the deputies of the Reform for the Future faction, are always drawing the attention of government officials to the fact that the source of funding for social initiatives should not be the very touchy pocket of Ukrainians. This should be done on the basis of simple and effective sources that depend only on the political will of you and the President. For example, the introduction of real, not fictitious rents on extraction, use of natural resources, such as ore, oil, gas, diamonds, gold, and so forth. In general, the situation is that we do not see progressive legislative initiatives under the authority of the government. Against the backdrop of the deterioration of Ukraine’s international projections, such passivity seems risky because the international agency Fitch has already reduced the forecast of GDP formation from 4 to 1.6 percent. The "Reforms for the Future" faction requires the government to take a firm stand, make every effort to carry out progressive economic and social and economic reforms, and improve them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u12	And to improve people's standards of living at the end of the day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u13	Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u14	Respectable comrades! On 9 May, we celebrated the 67th anniversary of the Great Victory of the Soviet people and all the progressive forces over Hitler's Germany, the victory over Nazism and Fascism. May 9 is indeed a bright holiday. On that day, we remember all the fallen, and we worship the living, those on the fronts and behind who forged our victory, with their chests closed the enemy's ambrasions, liberated the countries and peoples from the plague of the Cortical Plague. Therefore, the indifference and disrespect on the part of the State and local authorities, which they have shown to war veterans and to the organization of this year's Victory Day, is justly condemned by most Ukrainian citizens. According to the Communists, Victory Day is the crown of all the work of remembering, supporting the veterans, and disciplining our young. Victory Day is the first reason to reconsider the lessons of the greatest tragedy of the twentieth century, the echoes of which have not yet been heard. This is also an opportunity to reflect on the origins of the Great Victory, the advantages of the new system of power established as a result of the October victory, to understand and restore the truth of history, which has been destroyed throughout all years of Ukraine's independence, and is being destroyed today. Speaking at one of the national universities, I asked young people, future historians, can she tell you about Alexander Matrosov's invention, Nikolay Gastello? No one responded from the audience in 200. An empty mind. And the inhuman murder at Rowno on Victory Day, 9 May, 86-year-old veteran of the Great Homeland War, is the savagery and tragedy of our entire Ukrainian people. And today Victory Day is a bone in the throat for every kind of renegade from nationalists, ideal heirs to Hitlerism. On another occasion, on 9 May, they disgraced Ukraine before the world community. Having the majority in a number of local councils in Western Ukraine, they resorted to sudden political provocations by repealing the country's laws by their decisions, banning the Red Flag of Victory, which the Soviet warrior defeated over the Reichstag. Guard strips, a piece of the Order of Slava, are prohibited, which was awarded exclusively for personal courage and heroism in the fight against the Nazi regiments. The courts met in Lviv district at 2 p.m. on 9 May to prevent military memorial activities. There's nothing surprising about their position, they're protecting the fascists today. But it's a cause for concern and resentment. Why do these cynical practices not respond adequately to the public authorities? Why is there no rigid and adequate response of power to the frank politics of secession and the divisiveness of Ukraine by nationalists today? Yes, because in the run-up to the elections, there is an open game of capital with national radicals and neo-fascists. For the power and so-called opposition to the memory of the dead, the worship of heroes is just elements of pre-election agitation. That is why, in most areas, entire areas of Ukraine have been given in secret by local authorities to ensure that doctors do not prescribe free prescriptions to our glorious winners, veterans of the Great Homeland War, including the disabled of the Great Homeland War. Respectable voters, Victory Day is a public holiday, a symbol of the cleansing of peace and the country from anti-human Nazi ideology. To all who fought on Hitler’s side, he cooperated with the Fascist occupiers — disgrace and public contempt. Our people are the winner people, our enemy is fascism in all its manifestations, including neo-fascism, which has lifted the head in Ukraine today. And there can be no compromise. Everyone must be determined whether he is for Fascism or against. If against it, it is a moral duty to honor and remember the generation of winners, to respect the symbols of the Great Victory that will live on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u15	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. For proposals that need to be responded to by executive authorities, I ask you to prepare a secretariat of proposals. I support here the strong calls that have been made about the presence of the national MPs, the personal vote. Regrettably, those who call on the Supreme Council do not work or go to work. So let's stop this cynicism and not teach each other, but just come to work and work. Please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u16	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, the faction of the Party of the Regions that we have actually failed the last plenary week, suggests that today's working day should be extended until the issues are resolved. I request that this question be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the offer is very nice. You just think about it, and through one vote, I'm going to put it to the vote. First, I put to the vote a bill of order to adopt a decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Avrumovich Polachenko in connection with death. The draft decree, registration number 10396, is put to the vote for adoption. Please vote. [[10:29:29]] For 280 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of the issues scheduled for Tuesday, May 15. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:30:01]] For 263 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 187, "BUT – "Fathership" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 11. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion of a daily set of bills. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of the Technical Inventory of Real Property Act is put to the vote. [[Registration numbers: 10286, 10286-1]] Please vote. [[10:30:53]] For 234 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the Universal Purpose Program for the Transfer of Hostages to the Property of Territorial Communities for 2012-2015. [[Registration number 10226]] Please vote. [[10:31:27]] For 262 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the introduction of audit activities is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10285]] Please vote. [[10:32:00]] For 218. The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on enabling regulation]] [[Registration number 10338]] Please vote. [[10:32:31]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on improving and simplifying the procedure for the state registration of land and property rights. [[Registration number 10365]] Please vote. [[10:33:07]] For 240 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of orphans and children deprived of parental care. [[on material assistance]] [[Registration number 10136]] Please vote. [[10:33:45]] For 265 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance is put to the vote. [[on the deferred payment of insurance premiums for mining enterprises]] [[Registration number 10137]] Please vote. [[10:34:24]] For 236 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending Chapter XX, Section 5 of the Code of Taxation Taxation. [[Registration number 10379]] Please vote. [[10:34:58]] For 264 Decision taken. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving legislation on the protection of economic competition]] [[Registration number 10184]] Please vote. [[10:35:33]] For 262
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u18	Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Property Assessment, Property Rights and Professional Evaluation in Ukraine, and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10344]] Please vote. [[10:36:09]] For-164 The decision is not taken. The bill is not included in the agenda. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, other central executive bodies, whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers]] [[Bill registration number 10219]] Please vote. [[10:37:00]] For 261 A decision has been made. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the daily project the 90th anniversary of Anatoly Dimarov's birth. [[Registration number 10203]] Please vote. [[10:37:29]] For 259. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions, please. The Yavorowski bill. Region Party - 186, "BUT – "Fathership" – one, "Our Ukraine" – 15, communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms" – one, non-fractional – 12. It is up to the vote to propose the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, please vote. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Culture, other central executive bodies whose activities are targeted and coordinated through relevant ministers and the State Space Agency]] [[Registration number 10221]] [[10:38:27]] For 245 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to propose the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, please vote. [[on the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sport of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, other central executive bodies whose activities are directed and coordinated through relevant ministers, the State Television and Radio Committee]] [[Registration number 10220]] [[10:39:13]] For 261 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day’s session a bill on Ukrainian documents certifying a person, granting the right to enter Ukraine, and leaving Ukraine, please identify yourself. [[Registration number 10381]] [[10:39:44]] For 215 The decision is not taken. It is up to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Bookmaker Act. [[Registration number 10053]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:40:14]] For -14 The decision is not taken. The project is not included. It is up to the vote to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Joint Investment Institutions. [[on the protection of property interests of ISI participants]] [[bill registration number 10087]] Please vote. [[10:40:54]] For 260 Decision taken. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session a draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of certain tax and customs legislation is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10452]] Please vote. [[10:41:26]] For 262 The bill is included. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u19	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Please return to the vote under Law 10338, this is the draft Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on enabling regulation]] The introduction of the principle of regulating the activities of natural monopolies will enhance the efficiency of these enterprises. Request for a vote to return to this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u20	There is a proposal to return to the vote on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 10338, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on enabling regulation]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:42:45.]] For 237 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. [[on enabling regulation]] [[Registration number 10338]] [[10:43:14]] For 240 Decision taken. Here we go to the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the allocation of powers]] [[Registration number 10274]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:43:55]] For 229 Offer supported. Please report to Justice Minister Lavrinovich. Yes, please explain to the Secretariat why there is no reporter. So far, we're shooting the question. We are considering the draft Law on Recognition of the Machinebuilding Sector as one of the priorities in the Ukrainian industry. [[Registration number 9310]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:44:44:44]] For the 220. Offer supported. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Skudar Georgi Markovich. Prepare Lapinius from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u21	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, the Government not only creates different motivational mechanisms for the development of science-intensive productions and goods, not only for the economically developed States, but also for the developing economies. Thus, through the Hermes insurance company, the European Bank, without limitation of less than 2-3 per cent per year, finances the supply of machinery from Europe to other countries for 7 to 10 years. It's easier in China. Exports of machinery are credited not only without interest but also with possible write-offs. For example, in Russia, where the share of industrial engineering in total production is almost twice as high as in Ukraine, the percentage of loans used for the development of production is offset by both federal and regional budgets. In Ukraine, the share of machine-building in total exports is approximately 17 per cent. This is definitely a very low percentage. In Germany, for example, the export of machinery is more than 80 per cent. We still have the opportunity to support the creation of new productions in those engineering sectors that, in the face of severe competition, still export equipment to both Europe and the CIS and many other countries. The main task of my bill is to enable machine-building enterprises to channel 50 per cent of export earnings to modernize production, to create new high-tech and competitive products. The calculations show that an increase of 8-9 per cent of the country's exports will cover the full amount of temporary distraction???????? Investments in intellectual production. All comments made by the Government and the Administration on second reading will necessarily be taken into account by me, including on the date of entry into force of the law. I propose that the MPs support this bill, which will enable us to build machinery as the intellectual industry itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u22	Thank you. Please sit down. Yes, by Xenius Leppin's committee. None. Who? Dear colleagues! The heads of committees, who unfortunately are also absent from the meeting. Reporters to be in session! I'm pointing out that you'll be working with the voters when the election campaign starts. Or when you have to work in constituencies. And those who have to report on the bill should at least be in the session room, as should any of the national MPs. Yes, I'll give you the conclusion of the committee. Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further development. If you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, Mankovsky. Next Cappleyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u23	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u24	Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I strongly disagree with the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There's nothing to work on. What is more, I propose to all of us in this session room and to those who are not in the Chamber of Deputies to consider this bill because of the prism of our colleague Oleg Zarubinski's brilliant speech. Critical assessments by European chiefs and, surprisingly, Russian eyepieces have one goal: to curb the dynamic development of the Ukrainian sector of real, real industry. Remember, don't you remember 2004? 13.5 percent of GDP growth, we came up with a street riot, which was called the field. The mutiny is brewing, the same scenario we have right now! Here, in the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it's said. Now, it would be interesting to hear analytical help, and now the current preferences have led to what success. But if it wasn't for those preferences, we wouldn't have a mining and metallurgical complex today. Colleagues, we wouldn't have had heavy machinery. We wouldn't have an average machine building. We wouldn't have had a plane building, we wouldn't have had an agricultural machine building. If we had applied our preferences in a timely manner, we would have maintained radio electronics in Ukraine! We've lost the branch! You and I have two state-owned enterprises, Topaz, that make rings, and Sparks in Zaporozhye, that produce similar products that are unique in the world. We just have to support this bill because we're going to lose machine building, the foundation for further development of our high technology. We're in front of everyone today. Today, we are overcoming the consequences of a severe long - term crisis. We've narrowed down our belts to either develop the real economy. I propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u26	Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u27	Thank you. Representatives of the MP's Reform Group for the Future have considered this bill. And we know what we've come up with? Well, are we against supporting a domestic manufacturer in the area of machine building?Oh, my God! I fully supported the previous speaker of the People’s Deputy Dry. As long as we are. As long as we don't have our own machine building, we don't have a seriously developed economy, we'll buy everything abroad. There are some remarks to this bill, though, I would like to point out that on the first reading we will support this bill with the requirement that we correct it to the second. What do we have to say, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine! As usual, Ukraine’s Cabinet determines the final list of goods exempt from taxation. How could that be? Today, there is a whole series of legislative acts that can be made up of an exclusive list of all materials and waste materials, and so on, that are used by those or other representatives of the machine - building industry. In another way, this will lead to a large number of materials being placed under this "chicken" that will actually be deprived of the right to provide additional revenue to the State budget of Ukraine. In general, I would like to stress that the bill is good, and it should be supported. And on behalf of the parliamentary group, to the entire parliamentary room, support this bill in the first reading. And what we've stressed about the right of the Cabinet of Ministers needs to be corrected for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u28	Zarubinsky, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, today the world’s competitive struggle has reached its climax. What is more, as discussed today, this economic rivalry creates both a political struggle and geopolitical strategies, strategies, and so forth. It is not possible to pay attention to this because, first or foremost, there is a struggle for who will produce the machines, who will produce the equipment. And certainly the most powerful countries are doing everything they can to marginalize the economy in other countries. What do you mean? So she can only work in the service and not be an economy of production. So if a national MP, if an entity of the legislative initiative, proposes to strengthen Ukraine’s position in this competitive environment, the national electorate has such proposals to support, realizing that those who are being thrown to the side of the machine are becoming, let’s say, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u30	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u31	They become economic marginals and cannot be worthy to compete in the world economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u32	Please, Zybenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the Ukrainian Company will certainly support this bill. The idea behind it is the right one. The other thing is that, unfortunately, similar to the bills that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Catherine Seminovna Samoylik, Sergey Volodymyrovich Gordijenko, they were unfortunately not supported. It's a pity that we come to understand the need to adopt these documents when much of the economy, including industry, is destroyed and the part that remains is privatized. So let's help my family to make a profit out of it. But even in spite of these, so to speak, things, the Ukrainian Company will definitely support this bill, because it supports the movement in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Question completed. Thank you for not forgetting. I'm voting on a bill recognizing the machinery sector as one of the priorities of the Ukrainian industry. [[Registration number 9310]] Please vote. [[10:55:25]] For 257 The bill was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, you and I have already announced a bill to amend the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. [[Registration number 10274]] We decided to consider it as a reduced procedure. Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich is already in office. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare the Dechina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u35	Honorable National Deputies, honourable Adam Ivanovich, The Bill of Law is extremely short and solves one technical matter. It proposes to empower the Prime Minister, the First Deputy Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, who are not ministers at the same time, to submit draft acts to the Cabinet for consideration by the Cabinet. The same applies to the same right for the collegiate state authorities, for those regulators that we have created, that work outside the purview of the executive authority. That's the whole point of this bill. Please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is Demchisin. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u37	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The essence of the bill was briefly clarified by the minister of justice. I'm just going to point out that our committee on April 11th of this year reviewed the bill, that's all. And considering that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, does not see any legal impediments to both the definition of the allocation of powers and the expansion of the list of subjects for the implementation of the Kabmin Act, and believes that the results of the first reading of the draft law can be accepted as a basis. In the course of the committee's deliberations, the committee expressed its support for the legislative initiative and recommended to Parliament a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, following the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 10274]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, have a seat. Please sign up. Yes, please, Sergey Gordienka. Culchinsky's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u39	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. From the very beginning, I'm going to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill. But, Alexander Volodymyrovich, I appeal to you that when this law was passed, it was in the amendment, but from the Ministry of Justice and from the government the team did not support these amendments. Now you can see that it was absolutely right at that point that we were, and you came once again here to make this little amendment. I think it would still be necessary to listen to the committee's thoughts and support here in the session room, because there are a lot of bills that aren't supported by the amendment, and then life proves that they really, really needed them, and they were absolutely right and MPs, and the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u40	Please, Kulczynski
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u42	Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." I'm probably going to take the unpopular position of not supporting this bill and trying to justify my position. It is generally accepted that in the Cabinet of Ministers, draft documents are submitted by the drafting organ of this bill. That's why the Cabinet of Ministers Rules and the Cabinet of Ministers Act provide that the relevant central authorities of the executive branch shall draw up such documents and the relevant minister shall bring them up for consideration. [[whether it's the ministries or the other COVIES]] If we give the Prime Minister or vice-premiers who do not have any ministries and, accordingly, do not have the authors of this draft document to submit them, then the question arises, and who will consider it. And finally, there's a simple question, and why would the Prime Minister be the initiator of the draft document at the Cabinet meeting, if he has the right to entrust any central executive authority with the task of developing this project in an orderly manner and bringing it up for consideration by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, it is said that some documents will not be developed in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers' Rules, but will be introduced in the absence of any agreement, as it were, from a letter, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers will only be introduced to them at the meeting and under the authority of the subject of the bill. I think it's completely unnecessary things that violate the normal order of development and consideration of the draft documents of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and therefore I propose that this bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u44	Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u45	Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! Look, the whole logic of Kabmin's work is broken, which worked normally when it was, let's say, the Office of the Ministers of the Yulia Volodymyrna Timoshenko. The logic is that sectoral ministries are preparing a document, and here are the functional vice-premiers who are steering directions, and then they're working to reconcile positions. Because there may be different positions in different ministries. So the vice-premier is kind of a reference, and according to the requirements of this person's competence must be large enough. And if the vice-premier is looking at the arguments of different sides, he's standing in the so-called feedback loop, so he can assess the situation quite impartially. In the case that he's generating the bill himself, in this case, who's standing on the, well, so-called mirror loop? Who examines the arguments that arise in the introduction of this bill? None. By definition, this bill after that is raw, and we have seen it more than once. Well, I understand that the competence of today's vice-premiers remains to want better than all the others who have been accepted to work in the Cabinet on the principle not of a competent man but of a person who looks at it. Well, you don't have to break the whole state administration system completely, because it's the law. And when our government comes to power, we will have to change the law. And the President will be blocking the activity, the normal activity of the government for another three years. That's why, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u46	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u47	This law cannot be passed, or at least if you are already doing so, only in the first reading. I think we'll get to the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u48	Please, Zarubinsky. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u49	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that when the competence of today's vice-premiers is being evaluated, you know, on my memory of competence, and more specifically incompetence, most of the previous vice-premiers, who often had the first "vice-premier" entry in their workbook. So you don't have to talk about it, and you don't have to talk about it. As far as this law is concerned, it is absolutely correct, absolutely correct. He's dynamizing the Cabinet of Ministers. The argument here was that ministers and vice-premiers, ministers and prime ministers are people from different teams, they're opponents, they're competitors. If it's the way it was, it's stupid. In a normal cabinet of ministers, they're supposed to be the only pyramid. And if the Prime Minister, if the Vice Prime Minister, who is in one direction or another, is the initiator of the filing of an act, it's clear that he's doing it not because he's dreaming, but because it's a result of serious enough work. We often suffer from the lack of dynamism of Kabmin's work, and this bill allows us to dynamite it, and it can be accepted in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u50	Who? Ephraim. Chechtev, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! Of course, the bill must be adopted because it aims to improve the effectiveness of the country's current executive power. It's about someone coming to power someday. Don't come. Period. Never. I was at a rally, in the square, when it came together, I was thinking of what to call it, in that word, a circumcised, not cut off, but a circumcised opposition. [[B in m in s a l in]] And when this circumcised opposition of the two factions gathered, there was a statement by the leader of the circumcised opposition to what when. If someone does not come into the room and vote, that is equivalent to losing the mandate. So, if they're honest with themselves, I think the leader of this circumcised opposition today should lay down the mandate and end this lie, yes. How many people can I hold on to? You're not looking at anyone, are you? People are told what to do in the hall. Who's the agitator? They're sitting in the district hall, Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's keep the dust down a little bit. It's about simple, normal things. I wouldn't want you, my fellow officials, to immediately accept the Cabinet of Ministers' acts as bills, not just so many bills that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to send to us as a subject of the legislative initiative, but any decisions, orders and so forth, and so on, and so forth, that comes out of the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. Imagine any body that deprives the head of the body of the right to make proposals. So the minister has the right to make proposals, and the Prime Minister has no right to make proposals because he does not have a ministry. It is a pity, indeed, that the right Gordien woman, who was not then heard that she would not be the head of the body, had no right to make proposals. We don't write that instead of the Prime Minister's Cabinet or the First Deputy Prime Minister has the right to take orders and decisions. We write and suggest that he has the right to make proposals. And there's absolutely nothing illogical about it. Because, yes, the Prime Minister or the First Deputy Prime Minister can delegate. But as long as he hands over his assignment, and you know what kind of executive discipline we have, it'll take some time, and the reconciliation takes place, there are ministers' visas or ministers' visas on each document, and most importantly, there's reconciliation at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting. So, dear colleagues, don't look, don't look for politics where it doesn't exist. There is an objective pattern in which the government is governed by the Cabinet of Ministers at the level of executive power. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[concerning the determination of the allocation of powers]] Registration number 10274. Please vote. [[11:08:50]] For the 250. I made a proposal to the committee. The committee offered to accept it in the first reading. There is a general offer: there is a denial of two factions, unfortunately. So let me put to the vote a proposal -- preparing for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. For next plenary week. In fact, he's in the next plenary. Vote. We'll be there in seven days. [[11:09:23]] For 251 Short-term procedure. We are considering the draft Law on Organic Agriculture and Commodity Production and Circumstances. [[Registration numbers 9707, 9707-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:10:03]] For 212 Offer supported. This is how Bill 9707 will report Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin. Also in the field. Then it's government. First Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics and Food, Besugola Dmitrovich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! According to world standards, organic production is considered to be non-synthetic chemicals and non-genetically modified organisms. According to the International Federation of Organic Agriculture in Ukraine, at the beginning of this year there were over 140 certified organic farms, and the area of organic farming was more than 270,000 hectares. At the same time, Ukraine's potential in this direction is slowly developing and, most importantly, the lack of a legislative base, uncertainty about the real coordinator of the problem in the state. Further active development of organic movement in Ukraine can take place only if there is a clear and effective system of support and legislative support at national level. The need for urgent adoption of a bill on organic production has been caused by the recent emergence of products on the shelves of our hypers and supermarkets, other commercial enterprises, which have come into existence as organic, and this is in principle a violation of existing legislation. Ukraine, with its natural climate and soil potentials, has a unique opportunity to take one of the leading places among organic producers, which is why it will first promote the adoption of a bill that will legitimize organic production in our country. For the purpose of its legislative provision, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is introducing a draft of the Ukrainian Organic Production Act. The basis for drafting this bill is the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the 2011 National Action Plan on the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme. The main purpose of the bill is to define the legal, economic and social foundations of organic agriculture, to define the requirements for organic agriculture.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u54	Do it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u55	Marking, transporting, storing and implementing organic products and raw materials. Providing a rational soil roof for public health and environmental protection. The implementation of this bill provides, first and foremost, for the identification of the main tasks of public policy in organic production and its implementation. The bill provides for the establishment of a transitional period necessary for the transition from traditional to organic farming. General requirements for the implementation, labelling, assessment of the suitability of land and organic products, the order of its certification and the order of the scientific and technical provision of organic production. In view of the above, I ask the National Deputies to approve the proposed draft of the Ukrainian Organic Production Act in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u56	Thank you. The committee is headed by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Please, Kaletnik Grigory Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Production and Circumstances of Organic Agricultural Products and Raw Materials, submitted by National Deputy Carmazin, and the draft Law on Organic Production, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9707]] [[Registration number 9707-1]] I would like to remind you that since 2007, four similar bills have already been discussed in Parliament. In support of the whole idea of drafting such bills, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations draws attention to a number of shortcomings. Yes, the definition in both bills of the term "organic production" does not give a clear idea of such production. In the European Union, the term "organics" means a natural product produced without the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and GMOs. These are the signs that should be indicated in this definition. Yet this has not been done. The terminology of both bills should be consistent with the national legal system. There are no legal instruments in Ukrainian environmental legislation that contain the term "organic" in terms of ecologically clean. On the contrary, the terminology of "organisms," "organic" is fixed and has a slightly different meaning than those given in the projects. Yes, Ukraine’s Veterinary Medicine Act, which defines pollutants, calls them organic substances. The bill deals with the transition period. However, there are no defined criteria for the transition to organic production. Apart from the legislation, the requirements for the conformity of organic products with the requirements of the central health authority remain unwarranted. There are a few in the project, because I'm on both bills. The project, which was reported by the prime minister, did not reflect the requirements for cultivation, processing, transport, and storage of organic products. [[Registration number 9707-1]] According to legislation, to assign a product to an organic status, control authorities have to inspect each stage of this route from field to trailer. I pay your attention, honourable national deputies, that according to the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of Ukraine, both bills are recommended on the basis of a first-reading review to be sent for further work. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations also decided to recommend bills 9707 and 9707-1 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to return the authors to the committee. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Please, Zarubinsky. Behind him is Smitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This is no longer my first attempt to help or, in other words, to stimulate where Ukraine is competitive. That is, natural raw materials, organic products, products, deprived of famous or infamous genetically modified organisms traded by the richest countries in the world, planted by the world’s few countries, whose quotas are lobbyed by governments, presidents, and so forth. In Ukraine, organic production is something that can become our fiche and should become our fiche in the international distribution of labor. Therefore, welcome, once again, the authors of the legislative incentive initiative, the regulation, the assistance of those who produce natural, clean, biological products in Ukraine. But I can't help but agree with the head of the profile committee. We need this law to be truly irreprehensible so that this law does not have those lacunas that could be used to act, as it is not paradoxical, contrary to this law. So I think I need to listen to the profile committee. And if they're taking on development, processing, not just, you know, how often we get formally done, the subject of the legislative initiative to get back to work. It's often forever. If the committee wants to take and work on this subject more perfectly, to implement this idea, I think the Supreme Council should agree. Anyway, I think you can agree with the head of the profiling committee and give the opportunity, I repeat, to the committee on purpose, to work out these two bills, this idea, I'll say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u60	Please, George Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u61	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I will especially support Bill 9707-1 for those very reasons, first of all, let's ask ourselves a question. How did it happen that Ukraine, having the best lands and the best black lands in the world, has no clean, organic product? How did it happen that, in 20 years, we were unable to provide even our own population, even though our children’s gardens were clean? How did it happen that we do not have normal dairy products and so on, and so on, which certainly affect the life of a child, the life of a person? How did it happen that we are conducting experiments on various pilots, including medical programs, and why should we not translate the central part of Ukraine, where the best land itself is located, into pure organic production? It's an elementary thing to do. Adopt legislation, stimulate, manage budget funding, and I think the Ministry of Agrarian Policy should support, develop such a program to support such production. It's not just letting individual businesses do or not do, sow or not sow, ban any product that doesn't match organic origin. That's the first question. And the second question. Provide financial support from the budget. And now we're going to solve this issue in one day. What do you think? If we argue whether the term fits or does not answer, we will never make a decision. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, the committee is working on it. And if necessary in the process of other legislative acts, please and the Cabinet of Ministers, all of you have the opportunity to submit quality parliamentary initiatives, the bill. And please, we'll take it. But to draw this issue away from the fact that we do not have clean products, it is impossible to go beyond that by strengthening the health of our population, by strengthening that we should provide normal food of quality, even I would ask questions at the level of Ukraine’s national security. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. That is also the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. As a result of such realities, my esteemed colleagues, I will immediately put to the vote the proposal to return draft laws to the subject of the right to legislative initiative for further work. [[Registration number 9707, 9707-1]] Please vote. [[11:22:37]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. Vladimir Kaplienko, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u63	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich. You know, when we consider the list of draft bills to be included in this sessionary week, we unfortunately did not accept, we did not include Bill 10381 on the draft Ukrainian Document Law, which permits individuals to enter and leave Ukraine. This was because we were not given a word, but I would like to correct this sad mistake and consider this bill again. Thank you. Give us your word, please, before that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a return to the agenda on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Documentary Bill, which gives the person the right to enter Ukraine and leave Ukraine. [[Registration number 10381]] Please vote. [[11:23:58]] For 224 The decision is not taken. Chaplain, please. Caplienne's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u65	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Yes, thank you for putting it on. I still have a very persistent request, so let's go back to this bill again. Please put it back on. Perhaps not all the MPs have been able to understand what kind of bill we went back to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, this is about a bill that testifies a person according to modern requirements, that's all. A motion for a return to the draft Law shall be put to the vote. [[Registration number 10381]] Please vote. [[11:24:59]] For 239. We're back. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reform Group for the Future supports this bill for inclusion in the agenda and that's all. Why would we want to pay attention? I would like to remind you that we are taking a firm stand against this position, and this position has been proved in this session hall for the past and a half years, strongly against changing the status quo of the existing system of documents that testifies to the person of a Ukrainian citizen. Today, there is a lot of speculation that, in order to implement the EU National Visa Liberalisation Plan for Ukraine and for citizens crossing the Ukrainian border in the EU, it seems necessary to adopt a law in accordance with which all passports, passports and any documents we hold in our hands, driver's licenses, pension certificates and so on should be amended. We're definitely against it. Accordingly, we introduced an appropriate bill, called 9592, amending the Law on the Order of Entry and Exit from Ukraine. Only through this law can this painful issue be settled and in fact do nothing unnecessary, go into the pockets of every Ukrainian citizen, don't change their licenses, don't change their names, don't bring confusion. There's not much I want to tell you personally. This is an Orthodox question, because the total introduction of biometric information to all Ukrainian citizens is, in our view, wrong. And the little thing, our descendants, all generations will be talking about with the icon today when we're supposed to adopt this bill. We'd like that. We're going to the profile committee. Let's put this bill in order today, create a working group, and rebuild the only bill that combines 10381 and 9592. In another way, before the first and second readings, the MPs' group "For the Future Reforms" will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill, registration number 10381. Please vote. [[11:27:37]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Energy Efficiency of Housing and Public Buildings is under review. [[Registration number 9683]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:28:07]] For 225 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Alexander Mikolaiovich Alipov. Please. Igor Lisov, deputy chairman of the committee, will be the narrator.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's Energy Efficiency Act on Housing and Public Buildings has been developed to implement the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the President's Economic Reform Programme. The purpose of the bill is to define legal, economic and organisational principles for ensuring the energy efficiency of housing and public buildings, as well as to create conditions for reducing their consumption of energy resources. The technical state of the vast majority of existing buildings and energy systems does not allow for an adequate level of energy performance. More than 40 percent of the energy produced is lost in the housing fund. In January 2011, he took over the validity of the Ukrainian Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Treaty on the Establishment of the Energy Community. Thus, the adoption of this bill is also aimed at implementing Ukrainian legislation into the European Union’s legislation. The bill identifies, inter alia, the basic principles of public policy in the field of energy efficiency of buildings; the authorities authorized to carry out State administration in this area and their authorization; the legal and organizational principles for the promotion of energy efficiency of buildings; the main energy-efficient measures in buildings; the general principles of professional activity; and information security; the rights and duties of owners; and the co-owners of buildings. The adoption of this law will allow for a comprehensive settlement of all social relationships that arise in the field of energy efficiency of buildings, including in the area of minimum requirements for their energy characteristics, ensuring compliance with these requirements, passporting, financing of energy conservation measures. Many suggestions and comments have already come to the proposed bill. They will be included in further work on the Committees of the Supreme Council. Therefore, I would like to support the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u70	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov, deputy chairman of the committee. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u71	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on 12 March, the Committee considered the bill with the participation of representatives of the central executive bodies, the European Union, the Coordination Centre for Economic Reforms with the President of Ukraine. The bill was prepared by the government to implement the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation, taking into account the Energy Efficiency Directive of buildings with the participation of international experts. I would like to remind you that there is no legal regulation in Ukraine today in terms of energy efficiency of buildings. At the same time, in the event of a sharp increase in energy costs, the increase in energy efficiency of buildings needs to be addressed in the first place. The bill envisages the introduction of a passport for housing and public buildings and the creation of a single public register of energy efficiency passports. Passporting buildings will allow you to forecast the cost of maintenance and maintenance of buildings during their life cycle and develop a list of necessary energy conservation measures. In general, this will contribute to the economic use of fuel and energy resources in buildings and to the reduction of their costs, as well as to the rational use of public and local budgets. Such a passport is valid for ten years. The European Integration Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Law Enforcement Committee recommends that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development because it considers that the proposed amendments to article 96 of the Code of Administrative Offences require substantial work. In view of what has been said, the committee proposes a bill on the energy efficiency of housing and public buildings as a result of the first reading to be sent to the preparatory committee for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, who will be involved in this discussion? Please sign in. Radvec, the Reform Group for the Future, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u73	Please give the floor to Hashuk Petrovich to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u74	Peter Hassuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u75	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, a respected colleague, in Ukraine, is counted as a percentage of the loss of heat, while the entire world counts it as money. If the energy efficiency of our home were like that of Germany, for example, Ukraine would spend three billion dollars a year on its thermal comfort, while now it spends as much as six billion dollars. Experts have repeatedly pointed out that there is sufficient experience in Ukraine for the complex modernization of buildings and for the inclusion of funds under them, but the level of energy-efficient solutions is not in the technical or financial spheres, but in the socio-psychological spheres, because it takes a lot of time and effort to shape positive public opinion. As long as the inhabitants themselves do not want to save energy, no reference to international experience and discussions on energy conservation will have an appropriate response in society. So you need a comprehensive propaganda campaign to promote these ideas. Only if consumers and the state are aware of possible threats to the energy security of communities and regions and the creation of a quality incentive system can it be avoided in the future the destruction of urban energy systems such as the Alcev disaster. Understanding comfort will come to people later, once they are aware of comfort and economics. Of course, reducing energy consumption in buildings is, firstly, the economy of government funds currently spent on tariff subsidies; secondly, the source of energy infrastructure stability and the economic security of the country as a result of reduced dependence on imported energy. Thus, the need to improve the energy efficiency of housing in conditions of constant increase in the cost of energy carriers should be seen as a priority for the Ukrainian authorities today. That's why the Reform for the Future faction will support Bill 9683. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u76	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u77	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy Valery Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u78	Valery Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, this bill has a long history. It was cooked a few years ago. But then our Committee on Housing and Utilities and the public rejected it. Because he had very complicated initiatives. Like that. The obligation to obtain such a passport was entered. I mean, you don't want to get a passport like this tomorrow. That's why we have to get the money. And given that many of our buildings have no documents at all, because they were built under Soviet authority, it would stop the lives of many businesses. Next. A rule had been entered that the notary had prohibited the sale of real estate in the absence of such a energy efficiency passport. It would also have put a complete stop to life in our State. That is why I generally understand that such a bill is necessary. But there must be no such radical points. This should be a voluntary and stimulating exercise that would enable us to save energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u80	Yuri Hanustzak, Faction of the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u81	Yuri Hanustak. Ladies and gentlemen, imagine we're talking about building efficiency right now. No one is opposed to the energy efficiency of buildings. But is it necessary to accept a separate document? This is no more than another DBN. So make a normal DBN that indicates energy efficiency requirements. [[State Building Standards]] We don't write things in this document like the requirement to license, like sewage and water. So if you're already counting what's going to be in this house, in addition to energy efficiency, there's got to be an appropriate resistance to atmospheric precipitation and stuff like that. When it comes to the development of appropriate local energy efficiency programs, this part of the bill must be welcomed. Why? Because in this case it can be said that there will be appropriate budget programs. It's perfectly normal. But just to highlight one component, namely: the energy efficiency that should be in buildings, I think this kind of distortion is too much, it's an artificiality, a certain thing that goes into this bill. You see, there's a violation, which is the responsibility for the violation, and it's actually only a violation because it doesn't respond to energy efficiency. What about the other violations? So if it's about breaking a certificate that doesn't correspond to DBN and at that point, it would be congratulatory. But there's also a whole bunch of supplements that are completely unnecessary. Please also look at this project for further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee suggests that a committee be appointed to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. The main scientific and expert office also comments on the bill. But the question is, if the committee doesn't have a comment, if it hasn't worked on this project in three months and didn't bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council, send it back to the committee for re-reading, that means nothing will be done, and then we'll come back to that question in a month. So I suggest either we take it as a basis, or then we bring the government back to work, and that's how we unload the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the committees to stop this push, in and out of the session room. Work hard. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda, the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law on Energy Efficiency of Housing and Public Buildings. [[Registration number 9683]] Please vote. [[11:39:48]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of trade-offs in external economic activities is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10020]] The committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:40:23]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Vladimirovich Bandurov. Alexy Plotnikov will be the narrator. Please, the microphone. Please. Yeah, check the microphone, it doesn't work on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u83	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Foreign Exchange Transactions, has been developed with the aim of simplifying procedures for regulating external economic activity. In particular, simplifying the regulation of foreign exchange transactions. [[barteric]] Under the conditions of the stable functioning of the piedom economy, the weight of the commodity exchange operations in the total number of farm operations is quite small. Yes, since the year 2000, the share of foreign trade transactions has declined steadily. At present, the percentage of barter transactions does not exceed 0.001 per cent of external trade. In view of the fact that, under one individual permit to exceed the time limits set for importing goods under barter contracts, subjects have not applied since 2004, it is considered appropriate to cancel the above-mentioned permit document as invalid. The draft law is proposed. First. Cancel the individual permit to exceed the specified import deadlines for goods imported under barter contracts. And the second. To double, from 90 to 180 days, the maximum period during which goods imported under a barter contract are subject to import into the customs territory of Ukraine. Cancel other restrictions on trade transactions. It is proposed to adopt the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u84	Thank you, too. Who will be speaking from the committee? Alexi Plotnikov, head of the Committee on Economic Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u85	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 13 March 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Trade Interchange Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to improve the procedures for regulating external economic activity, namely, to abolish the requirement to obtain a single individual permit to exceed the time limits set for imports of goods, related works, services, and so on, imported under barter contracts. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of foreign trade transactions, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted in the first reading and on the basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Yes, please, Vladimir Karpuk. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Then there's Gennady the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u87	Dear National Deputies! In my view, I have listened carefully to the wrong emphasis placed on this legislative initiative. I want to remind you that barter transactions are a classic tool for tax evasion, avoidance of real pricing, and hidden foreign exchange. The barter operations were still completed in the days of Kiev when the sheep were on horseback, and when our national unit was introduced, the bracelet. And on this international relationship, everyone was built up in money calculations. Of course, there are cases in life where it is necessary to settle for a barter in external economic activity, but this has been clearly settled today. This was allowed, but it was very limited by the legislation in force. I'm going to give you the factors that have worked, and they're not going to be in the new law or bill right now. First, there was a term or 60 or 90 days, once. A list of high - quality goods that fall under barter operations in external economic activity was determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. If the term is exceeded, follow the additional license and it's under control so it won't be forever. Bartering or other bartering operations were determined in international relations by the Cabinet of Ministers. The penalty was 0.3 percent for breaking the deadlines. I mean, you can, but it was very limited. All of this is being canceled today. And I think the argument that we have petty barter operations in international calculations is not an argument. The argument that this is a simplification, as it were, of the systems of calculation -- I personally don't take it as an argument, because it's a broad, wide-ranging permissibility of barter operations in international accounting. I think the National Bank should have stopped it. Notice how you didn't understand this legislative initiative exactly our scientific expertise, which, you know, is very relevant to it. That's why I'm offering it. And he, the science and expertise department, is offering to send for work. I don't think we have the right to accept this rudimentary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u88	Gennady Bully, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u89	The MP's Reform for the Future will support this legislative initiative. Well, given what the previous speaker said, 0.001*** percent of all external economic operations are barter in Ukraine. But there are times when legislation should be more careful in regulating the matter. And the bill cancels the requirements for obtaining a single individual permit to exceed the time limits set for importing goods, performing work and providing services that are imported under barter contracts. And the bill excludes from the position, from the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of commercial bartering operations in the field of external economic activity, which lays down the conditions for imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of high-value goods and other goods such as rubber, natural or volcanic accelerators of rubber. That is why the bill, in fact, reduces corruption risks and other abuses. And we consider it appropriate in the bill to identify groups of goods according to the classification of goods of external economic activity which, according to the barter contract, may be imported into Ukraine's customs territory within 180 days. So before the second reading, we ask that we take this proposal into account and, given the above, the MP's "For the Future Reform Group" supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Committee, please, Sergey Teryohin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u91	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's the situation. This law was the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which I wrote in 1993. And it was only relevant when we had a cash method of calculating the value added tax. What is it? When the money came, there was a commitment. If there is no money, there is no obligation. Now we've had another method since 1997, the first event. So I can't agree with Mr. Arjevetin, this law is completely meaningless today. It does not have to be improved or continued, and it needs to be cancelled as a class, for there is no point in keeping this barter limit that is not available today. So, not in the first reading, you have to adopt this law with some sort of car, but basically cancel any barter restrictions as non-current restrictions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u92	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office considers it appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to send a draft for further work. In accordance with the Rules, I put to the vote the first sentence of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of barter trade operations in the field of external economic activity (registration number 10020). Please vote. [[11:50.]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the order of storage of archival documents relating to the provision of social protection for citizens is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9751]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[11:50:36]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Justice Minister Vorona Dmitry Mikolayovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the order of storage of archival documents relating to the provision of social protection for citizens is designed to improve the legal mechanism and regulation in the field of archiving in the area of labour archives, which will contribute to the social protection of citizens who were employees of decommissioned or restructured enterprises, institutions and organizations. The draft law proposes to define the concept of "labour archive" as an archiving institution established by decision of local self-government authorities for the purpose of centralized temporary storage of archival documents accumulated in the process of documenting officials, labour or other legal relations between legal and natural persons. The authority for the creation and functioning of labour archives is planned to be placed on local self - government bodies, and the expenditure on labour archives is to be attributed to local budgets. Given that today a thousand 190 out of a thousand 198 existing labor archives have been created by the appropriate local authorities, the implementation of this bill will not result in additional pressure on the local budget. The adoption of the law will help improve existing legislation in the field of archiving and business, ensure proper conditions for the preservation of socially relevant documents in the single system of labour archives, enable Ukrainian citizens to implement the rights to social protection guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. The bill was accepted without any notice by the All - Ukrainian Association of Rural and Rural Councils. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u95	First. There's a problem. The problem is that we have a bill on the National Archives and Archives. This law is in force, but it applies, of course, only to State archives. At the same time, there is a problem when some businesses are bankrupt today, when, for example, labor groups are formed and so on. A person who wants to retire and needs to collect documents, he often finds himself in front of a deaf wall and remains helpless, and very often he can even, say, not count his pension. So, in a few words, I'm going to highlight the problem that came up. The Cabinet of Ministers has tabled its proposal to the Budget Act, because only state institutions are financed from the budget system, to ensure that these labour archives, which are formed in the territory or settlement or in the district center and so on, are kept here and here temporarily, by the way, to be financed from the local budget. The decision is intelligent, absolutely normal, it would seem, at first glance, and so forth. What Is Needed? This requires, of course, amendments to the Budget Law, but it is vital that local self - government be amended just to ensure that these archives are available. Let's say we accept the bill, and they'll be helpless and the local authorities won't be able to finance it. I mean, you need some guarantees on this. What a danger, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considers. The danger is that local authorities can, of course, treat these labour archives differently, but there's still danger that they might eventually become privatized, and people will have to pay a lot of money to get information, to get where it used to work, and so on. I think we need a second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u96	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u97	The second reading will need to be reviewed. In general, the committee believes that the bill can be adopted on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u98	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in. Names of the national deputies. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u99	Please pass the word to Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u100	Sergey Gordijenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u101	Sergey Gordijenko, faction of the U.K. Poltavščina Company. I would like to point out that when mass destruction occurred, including forced enterprise and organization, there was a huge problem as to how to go on with the labor archives and how to secure those people whose documents were left in those businesses for no one. And that's when the authorities of local self-government started creating labor archives, taking these documents. Today, I would like to draw attention to the following problems: that we still have so many organizations in Ukraine that are today, there is not exactly their activity, the so-called residual enterprises, but the labor archives have not been surrendered. The scales are huge, and the threats to humans are great. I would also like to draw attention to the role of arbitrators. Arbitrators come to these companies, see that there is no profit -- and they don't perform the primary function to give up the labor archive. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the courts today do not provide proper control over what an arbitrator reports on his activities, and in this report it should be reflected in the first place that the dedicated labor archive, but that is not done, and sometimes the archives are left unordered. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine sees this as a super-important problem. And we will support it in the first reading and work hard to get rid of these defects.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u102	Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u103	Thank you. MP's Reform for the Future, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina. Well, to be honest, this step probably had to be done 20 years ago. In Santa, for example, there are examples where the arbitration panel -- I just want to continue the presentation of the previous speaker -- the bankruptcy of the Iskra company, the labor archives are disappearing somewhere, and people have very, very, very serious pension problems. That is why this step is vital. And what's very important is that in order to unify terminology, they are added to article 1 of the National Archives and Archives Act on the definition of labor archive. I mean, there was no legislative arrangement for that term at all. An archiving institution, established by local self - government authorities, has been established to centralize the temporary storage of archival documents accumulated in the process of documenting the service, labour, or other judicial legal, physical persons in the responsible territory of the city. Therefore, it is very important that local government limits may be able to establish such an archive, and it is vital that the State be obliged to finance the financing of these labor archives. So our parliamentary group will, of course, support this much-needed bill and, of course, propose to the hall that everyone vote in favour of this necessary thing and perhaps even vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u104	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. The right to speak is transmitted by colleague Karpuk, please the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u105	In my own time at Zakarpata, I created a labor archive in the Swalava region, so I know these problems. And today, really, we don't have a single system in Ukraine for managing and financing labor archives, or temporary archives. They are not legally part of the State Archives system, and local authorities are skeptical about the work archives. The labor archives are viewed as yesterday's macular, that's actually true. So today, there are no clearly defined sources of funding for labor archives, not the personal responsibility of any government body. What "working archives" are all treated in their own way, and of course they're very good at using the scams of companies that are being eliminated or specially created for a temporary period, as if in principle: And the ends in the water. After Ukraine went to market relations, you know, during this time, dozens of businesses, tens of thousands of enterprises went from one form to another. And I think there's going to be a time soon when the employees of these companies are going to come up with their pension problems, and they're going to be asking for help on the validation of their employment, on the confirmation of the harmful conditions in which they were working, maybe. Those benefits they used. Today, there are more than a thousand labor archives, and they are usually all created by either sponsors or enthusiasts. Unregulated labour law enforcement allows for the abuse of tax controls that, in their own way, interpret the use of the local budgets of one or the other when it is not clearly stated what a labour asset is and how funds are used. In my opinion, this bill is indeed a concrete and fundamental step in protecting, with the social protection of our citizens and especially the pensioners. Therefore, he needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u106	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u107	Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of the National Party. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u108	Oleg Zarubinski, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u109	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, all previous speakers have said that there is a problem here with labor archives that need to be solved. But I would like to point out that it has to be resolved correctly. So when a piece of legislation is being prepared, we have to see that, first, the title corresponds essentially to what's written in the bill so that the terms used in the bill don't conflict with each other. Regrettably, when I have a small rule, I have at least a few names for such, as Russian, intransigence. Let's see what's called the bill – about amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the order in which archive documents are stored and beyond the text. [[Attention!]] What about the bill itself? Labour archives are defined, their essence, their order of creation and their functioning. You can agree, dear colleagues, that the order of storage is one thing, and the order of creation, the order of functioning, the essence is another. So we have to start by saying that the content of the bill has to match the title of the bill and vice versa. Second moment, let's see. The bill uses the word "work archives." I mean, clearly, what does it mean when labor archives say? And the content of the bill is that it's also about work relations, but at the same time, it's about service and all the other documents that don't belong to the National Archives Foundation. So the service and other documents that don't belong to the National Archives Foundation are not just work documents. We need to work harder when preparing, including government bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u110	Yuri Hanustak, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u111	Gentlemen! Let's do documents that will work, not, as they say, "procurement, and then don't light up." You put authority on local budgets, which is not compensated, because it's the second basket, in rural areas, it's going to be zero, so it's going to be zero. Second position. Whose authority is this in fact? It's a state mandate. Therefore, the governing body must be stately. Who really is the consumer of this information? Pension fund. This is where you create a labor archive. Moreover, it is not wrong that it does not require additional funds. You charge local budgets extra. Yeah, of course you don't feel sorry for them, which you have to call right after that, wearing the proud name "Parties of the Regions." What are you two regions after that? This authority cannot be given to the second basket of local budgets. There's zero. And the funding is going to be zero. That's why you don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague! Isn't that where you're looking? You look at the government stand, you appeal to the regions, and the bill has been introduced by the government, there's a government representative present, and he'll answer your questions. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis and, in preparing for the second reading, to take into account the comments made by the committee's chairman, as well as the comments to be taken into account in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. The proposal for adoption is based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the order in which archival documents relating to the social protection of citizens are stored. [[Registration number 9751]] Please vote. [[12:05:54]] For 265 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen of the national party are scheduled for a recess of up to 12 hours for 38 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we will continue our work. The draft Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors is proposed for consideration. [[concerning the transport of dangerous goods]] [[Registration number 9555]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Yeah? And then they write letters that you have to act in this way, not otherwise. [[12:39:37]] For-164 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Please. The focal point will be the chairman of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bacheviv Health Committee. DEDEMIDOVICH d.C.E. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Act amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors is being discussed. [[Registration number 9555]] The need to adopt a bill is due to the fact that the transport of dangerous goods, sulphuric acid, saltic acid to precursors is subject to double licensing. In accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity and article 26 of the Ukrainian Act on Narcotic Drugs. According to the Ukrainian License Act, dangerous transport is carried out on the basis of licences issued by the Railway Infrastructure on the basis of technical conditions developed. At the same time, article 26 of the Ukrainian Drug Act provides that the activities of the transport of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors in Ukraine are subject to a licence for this type of activity issued by the State Committee on Drug Control. In order to reverse the duplication of licensing of the same type of transport activity, dangerous goods are proposed to amend the legislative act with a view to carrying dangerous goods according to the licences of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u114	Thank you, too. Aunt Dmitryvna Bacheviva is head of the Health Committee, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, our committee considered the bill on 14 May. It aims to eliminate the duplication of licensing of the same business activity by granting the right to transport precursors by rail without a licence for the treatment of precursors and under a licence for the carriage of certain dangerous goods. The bill amends article 26 of the Ukrainian Drug Act, which was adopted in 1995. And, of course, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, given the many inconsistencies in the legislative aspects that exist, proposes that the bill be sent for finalization. Our committee has considered this bill carefully and we also have some very serious comments because the bill does not comply with articles 6 and 31 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce, which prohibits the carriage of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances by rail. The bill also does not meet the basic principles of public policy in the area of licensing for equality of rights, legitimate interests of all economic actors. The activities related to the transport of precursors, in particular the need for a licence for this activity, are regulated by the Basic Law on Narcotic Drugs of Ukraine. These amendments, which are contained in the bill, are also contrary to many articles of the Ukrainian Act. However, the main point is that the bill contravenes the law “On licensing certain economic activities”, since it does not provide for exceptions and is not amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u116	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u117	The amendments proposed by the bill are not in accordance with the UN Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances at all. So we're building a base to make drugs even more widely introduced if they're being introduced today into the country. And it'll be uncontrollable, not a registry. Therefore, our committee proposes to finalize this bill, and I ask you to support it, it is very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u118	Yes, please, dear colleagues. Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. If there is a need to speak on this subject, write down. Yes, name, please put it on the board. Vladimir Moisik, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u119	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Pass the word to Karpuk Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u120	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u121	Vladimir Karpuk. We support the committee's opinion that this bill should be sent for further work. Aunt Dmitry has carefully analyzed the contradictions in this law and the inadequacy of its other legislation. In particular, the Law on Licensing Certain Economic Activities, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. As well as articles 6 and 31 of the Code of Masters of Ukraine on freedom of entrepreneurship. This bill goes beyond this state policy in the field of licensing on the equality of rights and legitimate interests of all economic activities. The Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors itself not only refers to the transport of these substances in articles 26, but also to articles 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 17. Indeed, it would be necessary to make changes to these articles. And as Tetjana Dmitrovna said, as early as 1991, the Supreme Council Order on the Ratification of the UN Convention on the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances was adopted. And this convention, which has been operating in Ukraine for 20 years now, does not respond. So we need to get him to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u122	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future is very positive about the adoption of this bill. Because the technology of transporting by rail and any other transport of dangerous goods, to which, in particular in this bill, including the laws in force, is introduced by both salt and sulfuric acid and precursors, and so on, certainly needs attention. Because it's the safety of our transports. Furthermore, in Ukraine today, Ukraine is a transit state. It is also possible to harmonise Ukraine's existing legislation with the requirements of the EU in time. However, there are some disagreements in this bill that we would like to draw attention to beyond what our committee colleagues have been stressing. Well, first of all. In order to avoid these disagreements under articles 9 and 26 of the two laws, on drugs and licensing of certain types of farming, it is not simply necessary to exclude precursors from the list of precursors in article 26. And maybe add to paragraph 19 of part three of article 9, "On licensing certain types of activity", "certain types of economic activity" also changes. Are they provided for by this law or, more specifically, by this project? Of course, what further percentage of these rights is not known. Article 116 of the Rules will prevent these changes. Next. If we are talking about the second list, why are we talking only about rail transport? It's also not clear. So it was a good effort by the authors of the legislative initiative. However, there was some work to be done. The position of the MP group is as follows. We support this bill in the first reading. We'll give our 19 votes. And we're going to hardwire this bill in a second reading in order to avoid all of these disagreements, by paralleling other amendments to the Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. In case the law isn't passed now, we'll support its direction for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u124	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, I want to support the point of view of the previous speaker, he finally said what I wanted to hear. This bill can't be accepted, but it needs to be sent back to work because there's a mix of two concepts: salty, sulfuric acid is a load, it's not a precursor. A precursor is a substance used for the production of narcotics and so forth. So trying to do what's supposed to be a good idea, a good attempt to give up duplication of licenses in this case is simply going to contribute to the spread, movement or transit of precursors. And now we have another task: to promote transit through Ukraine, through Ukraine, those substances that are considered to be harmful or poisonous to which there is a license, and for which Ukraine will receive the costs. So today, this bill needs to be sent for further work and it needs to be told to the authors who wrote this bill from the Cabinet of Ministers to be clearly understood and clearly explained, in an explanatory note they wrote about what it was about. It's not about duplicating, eliminating duplication, it's about simplifying transport across Ukraine, spreading psychotropic drugs. I think we should support the proposal of a profile committee and send this bill for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u126	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u127	Yuri Hanustak. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously this is about a certain lobbyist bill and rather just on the side of the same railway, although I'm not sure. The transport of such cargo, such as psychotropic, narcotics and so on, should be accompanied by not even double but triple control, i.e. issuing two licences, i.e. a general licence for the carriage of goods by rail and a separate licence for transporting, operating on such materials, is in fact a second level of control to ensure that such cargo is, well, strategically dangerous for Ukraine, so that this control system cannot be circumvented. And in this respect, today's system, it basically works pretty well. When it comes to reducing overhead costs that are obvious to all of us, it is necessary to make changes to regulations, but by no means law, because the law must be equal to all business subjects. So if you're going to transport the right stuff and work with the right stuff, you have to prove that you can do that, that you have ways of protecting yourself, that you have the right protection, and so on and so forth. Because once one of the controls is removed, everything, after that, can be expected to go corrupt and so on and so on, and so on, what we have in Ukraine is not seen once. This law cannot be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The Committee's conclusion coincides with the recommendations of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and is to return the bill to the subject-matter of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Taking into account the Rules, I will, at first, make a proposal, if there is no objection, an acceptance as a basis, and then a second proposal. Is there no objection? That's the first proposal for adoption as the basis for the bill. [[Registration number 9555]] Please be sure. [[12:53:08]] For-19 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on the committee's motion to return the subject to the legislative initiative's right to draft a bill. [[Registration number 9555]] Please vote. [[12:53:36]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on employment of persons with disabilities. [[Registration number 9438]] I'm betting on a motion for a brief motion to consider the issue. Please vote. [[12:54:05]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Nadrag Vasil Ivanovich. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Suškević. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u129	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is being initiated with a view to a comprehensive settlement of the employment of persons with disabilities, including the creation of conditions to motivate employers with regard to their employment and bringing national legislation into line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The project proposes to amend and supplement five laws, including the following amendments. First. It's a grant to employers to create normal jobs for people with limited capabilities, not just special jobs. The legal norm obliges employers to spend their own resources on creating normal jobs and the Social Protection Fund to compensate only for the cost of fitting them to the requirements of a special job. However, the needs of people with disabilities in normal workplaces are much higher. Moreover, the introduction of such a standard would allow more efficient use of administrative and economic sanctions for the employment of persons with disabilities. Next. An increase of five times the administrative fines is proposed for managers who violate labour legislation, such as the rules on job creation for persons with disabilities, failure to report to the Social Protection Fund on the employment and employment of persons with disabilities, non-registration or untimely registration of employers in the Social Protection Fund. It is also proposed to take into account the "2" ratio of employment standards for all first group disabled persons and second group disabled persons with mental illness and mental retardation. And the last. Employers use the standard of employment of disabled people by making arrangements with enterprises of public organizations of contract disabled persons for the production of goods, jobs, and services. At the same time, such a public organization should correspond to specific ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u130	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u131	The adoption of these rules does not require any additional expenditure from the state and local budgets, so please support, honourable Members.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u132	Thank you. Valerius Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u133	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, have considered the bill, and have considered in the same directions that address one of the difficult problems related to disabled people, namely employment. What I'm saying is that our committee, personally myself, we've been involved in the work of the Ministry of Social Policy in working out all the directions set out in this bill. And among them, I would like to mention, firstly, what concerns new subsidies for employers to create jobs that are provided by the Social Protection Fund for persons with disabilities, such as the employment of people with disabilities registered in the State Employment Service, also vocational training, the promotion of qualifications, the retraining of people with disabilities. It's extremely important. Another rule that has not been mentioned, which should be noted, is that it is assumed that the subject of farming is taken into account by the standard of employment of persons with disabilities who work only in the main workplace, excluding, well, various difficult moments and, for example, the abuse of standards of employment of persons with disabilities. In addition, it should be noted that it has been possible to work on a standard that works for people with disabilities in heavy categories, namely, to supplement the new standard with a view to increasing the employment rate of the first group of persons with disabilities, as well as those with mental disabilities and the mental retardation of the second group, by counting the standard of employment of one such working invalid as two staff members. It's a stimulating norm. And a very important point is that all information on the employment of persons with disabilities is being processed and included in the national register of compulsory public social insurance. This enables the government and the ministry to deal with all issues. The main science and expertise management is offering to take the first reading as a basis. The committee supported it, a committee of questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u134	Microphone, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u135	The Committee on Budget Questions noted that it could be accepted from the day it was published. And the Committee on European Integration noted that it did not need an expert opinion from the committee. Our committee is asking for the support of this document required for the disabled. I hope you'll be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Sergei Gordienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u137	I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u138	Peter Cibenko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u139	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to say that the document is extremely timely and needs it. This is a problem that needs to be solved, the problem of employment for the whole population, but the people with disabilities must be solved. What I want to point out is that the document is highly balanced. So on the one hand, he provides certain subsidies to create jobs for people with disabilities, and on the other hand, those who don't want to do that use sanctions, and I see his complexity and efforts to solve the problem, it's really very important. I want to draw attention to another problem, an important problem to solve. For example, the leaders of veteran, disabled organizations often ask questions about public procurement of enterprises, public organizations of disabled persons, such as UTOS, UTOG. Because the thing is, these citizens, these businesses, they can't compete with those businesses where they work completely healthy people. So in this context, there's a contract with public organizations that is, in fact, a government order for the production of public organizations. enterprises, social organizations of people with disabilities. So once again, I want to emphasize that the question is extremely important. And another problem that needs to be solved is that some industries try to reduce the quota for the employment of people with disabilities, the different mechanisms to avoid job creation and the payment of fines. But that's a slightly different problem. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will certainly vote in favour of this document. I propose to support him as a document that is extremely timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u140	Peter Hasuk, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u141	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The MP's Reform for the Future believes it is his duty to support this legislative initiative. It is of principle important to us that the bill provides for a serious strengthening of social guarantees for disabled people, one of the most vulnerable groups of the population of Ukraine. In doing so, it should be emphasized that the right to work is essential for people with disabilities. This will allow them to feel, not dependent on the State’s funds, but full - fledged citizens of their state. A positive role in ensuring the right of persons with disabilities to work will also be to increase the administrative responsibility of employers if they fail to meet the employment standard for disabled persons and fail to report. After all, according to official data, almost five employers will not comply with employment standards for disabled people. So in our view, in this case, increasing sanctions on the part of the State will contribute to the formation in our society of a culture of socially responsible entrepreneurship. In view of the said parliamentary group Reforms for the Future, he proposes to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u142	Thank you, too. Ramez, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u143	Deputy Ramez Valerius, People's Party. Please pass the word to Zarubin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u144	Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u145	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, the bill is definitely humanistic because it refers to that category of our population that often cannot take care of itself. And the task of a civilized state to support such people, people with limited capabilities, is to emphasize, in fact, the civilization of one state or another. In fact, the key points of the bill are the following: firstly, it really brings Ukrainian legislation into line; in any case, it largely corresponds to the Ukrainian legislation on persons with disabilities to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; and, in particular, to the need for a reasonable application of workplaces for persons with disabilities, taking into account their capabilities. And in this regard, I have an immediate comment, which is obviously worth taking into account when preparing for the second reading, since the factions of the People’s Party will unreservedly support it when voting on the basis of the first reading. It's about the word "reasonable adaptation" itself, because it refers to both equipment and the workplace itself for the employment of persons with disabilities, and the meaning of the term is not sufficiently clear. In this regard, we propose that this definition be provided in the glossary of the bill in order to correspond to the definition contained in article 2 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. And a very important moment, I think this is the quintension of this bill, the positive quintension that the bill itself is aimed at simplifying the grant mechanism, and thus it will contribute to the employment of more people with disabilities and the use of more funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u146	Yes, Vladimir Yavorowski, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u147	Dear voters! Dear National Deputies! The level of the humanistic culture of the state, its level of democratization, is determined by its attitude towards the disabled, of course. We have a huge number of problems with that. However, we realize that the most important problem is what? It's that a country with a high unemployment rate has a disability, let alone a working one, but it's still incredibly difficult for a disabled person to work with. And all the previous measures that have been taken, and they have indeed been positive and binding on the owners of the enterprises to take on disabled people, are very often not implemented. It is not done because there was no such thing as evaluation moments and penalties for failing to comply with this legislation. This law is just interesting because it actually increases 5 times the fines for failing to comply with this legislation. This law is being clarified.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u148	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u149	Yeah, he's clarifying about six bills. We think it's a new step, it's far from perfect, but for it, it needs to be supported. And I think it's going to be done anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u150	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. There's one performance from the faction of the Party of Regions. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, I can confirm Valery Mikhailovich Suškević, who said about social adaptation of people with limited possibilities in the case of huge industrial enterprises in Zaporozhye. When people don't work in separate businesses, where people with limited physical capacity are gathered, and in these labor groups, you realize that social adaptation is much higher, and moral self-esteem is higher. So, of course, the Party of Regions will support this bill. But I'm paying attention today to the First Deputy Minister, please look at the bill and it says clearly: the administrative foam, the sanctions that will go to the state budget for failure to implement the law -- they go through the Social Protection Fund to those industrial enterprises to create jobs and so on. Second, it is said that this money goes solely to enterprises owned by disabled people’s organizations. Therefore, the bill should be adopted in the first reading with clarity and should be further developed for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u152	The honourable colleagues, the committee and the speaker were unanimous in that we need to adopt this bill for further work, that is, on the basis of the first reading. The main scientific and scientific management also came to a positive conclusion. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on employment of disabled persons, please vote. [[Registration number 9438]] [[13:08:49]] For 279 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory State Pension Insurance is announced for consideration, and the proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[on the payment of the congregation for transport equipment]] [[Registration number 10110]] Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:09:25]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadrag. The focal point will be the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u153	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was designed to clarify the functioning of the congregation’s payment mechanism for compulsory state pension insurance. The need for these changes is due to the ambiguous treatment of the law in force, which provides for the payment of the congregation’s compulsory state pension insurance in the case of the estrangement of light vehicles. This standard is defined solely from operations in which a congregation is to be paid for compulsory state retirement insurance, that is, transfer of property to the property of another person or to a fee, or free of charge. Thus, the project provides that the payment of the congregation’s compulsory state pension insurance is made when it acquires ownership of a light car. In addition to the provision of cars for disabled persons and cars that are owned by heirs under active legislation. So it's in the current order. In 2012, more than $1 billion,200 million is expected to be paid to the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance from car theft operations. In addition, a bill conforming to the Ukrainian Tax Code provides for the identification of immovable property to be paid to the congregation. The only request, the honourable national deputies, if there is the good will of the hall, is that the committee supports everything and proposes that we adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u154	Thank you, too, sit down. Mr. Mikola Georgiyovich Kulczynski, please make the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u155	Mikola Kulczynski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on "Conclusion for Compulsory State Pension Insurance" at its meeting on 18 April 2012. As already noted, the bill has been drafted in response to the need to improve the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the Collection for Compulsory State Pension Insurance. That is, it is suggested that the congregation’s payers be specified for compulsory state pension insurance when cars are separated, i.e. who will pay the seller or the buyer, this is the main colossal. The bill determines what the buyer should do, and that's the right thing to do. The Committee on Budget Affairs has decided to support the bill because there is no direct impact on the budget. The European Integration Committee, having considered the bill, concluded that it does not belong to the priority areas of adaptation of Ukrainian legislation to EU legislation or is governed by national legislation of EU member states. So it does not need an expert opinion from the Committee on European Integration. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides a general conclusion on acceptance as a basis. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of the first reading of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Congregation for Compulsory State Pension Insurance, be adopted as a basis. At the same time, the committee does not object to the proposal of the first Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to accept as a basis and as a whole what your will will be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u156	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Please sign up. May I have the names of the national deputies? Gennady Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u157	MP's Reform for the Future, Mikolayevščina, Gennady Zadirko. Dear colleagues, this bill is indeed of a purely technical nature. It first defines the concept of "exclusion", which foresees that the employees of the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance are entities that acquire ownership rights on cars other than the provision of cars with disabilities and inheritance. Second, it is proposed to determine the immovable property to pay the congregation for compulsory state pension insurance of an object that falls within the definition of a group of 3 major assets and other non-returnable assets under the Ukrainian Tax Code. The adoption of the project will help to specify the provisions of the Act on the collection of compulsory state pension insurance and bring its standards into line with the Ukrainian Tax Code. The MP's Reform for the Future is proposing to support this bill as a whole. And we understand that this is really going to set up, that it's going to give you an opportunity to increase your accession to the Pension Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u158	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, this bill is causing me some sort of separation. Why? I think whoever's buying the car after this bill has to pay. And it seems to me that it is he who sold it has a profit, that is, he should pay. But that's not even the point. That's not the point. What's important is that, by the way, my colleague Kulczynski said that this doesn't have an absolute impact on the budget, on the budgeting. And Nadra said that one and a half billion dollars will actually go into the budget. This has an impact on the budget and, of course, has a positive impact on the budget. That's why I think that there's a need to really move the accents from whoever's selling to whoever's buying. There is no problem, the law does not carry the smallest conflict in itself, and it can be voted for peacefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u160	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, this bill contains contradictions and now contradicts the current position developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to implement the relevant Automobile Insurance Act. Here's the thing. If we accept the view that institutions, organizations, businesses, individuals who acquire ownership of light cars, everything will be understandable. But there's been a mistake, and it's very easy if we now make a decision on the basis and under a reduced procedure to consider the second reading, we're going to fix it because there's double taxation. According to this bill, a double congregation should be paid for the car — a business that passes on to the car dealership; a car dealership, a natural person, and so forth. It's unacceptable, it's unreasonable and it's wrong, and it can't be accepted as law. So I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, and I strongly deny that it should be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A motion for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft law, registration number 10110. Please vote. [[13:17:01]] For 270. Decision taken. A proposal was made, honourable colleagues, to have the main committee prepare him for the second reading by a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this motion, please vote. [[13:17:29]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (register No. 9557) is being announced for consideration. [[on the cessation of the right to use land, when disposing of land for social purposes]] The proposal is to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:18:02]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter is Anatoly Matvienko. The reporter is Sergey Tereshuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u163	Anatoly Matvienko, Party of the Ukrainian Sobor Platform, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Analysing the practice of depriving land for the social needs that we have already experienced in connection with the Euro-2012 has shown that the existing rules of law create very serious problems, delay these solutions, time and obviously need to be adjusted. That's what my proposals for appropriate changes to the relevant laws are all about. For example, this applies in particular to the dissolution of the lease agreement for the land of the state, municipal property, if it is made available to the public. If, for example, we alienate the land of private property for social purposes, then the lease agreement is suspended and there are no problems. And if we're doing this with municipal property or state property, we need a treaty here on both sides that's prolonging these problems, and that's inadequate in terms of land that's in municipal or state property. It is necessary to have a standard proposed in the project on the possible financing of measures for the alienation of immovable property and the costs of legal persons that initiated its ransom with a view to the timely implementation of investment programmes, since such funds, especially in rural councils, do not exist at all and are difficult to find. It's like a rule that solves this problem in some part. There is also a need to establish a rule on the size of the ransom price to counter corruption, so that there is not, as far as budget costs are concerned, an abuse of budgetary resources. The stated provision for amendments to Ukraine’s Land Code, land lease laws, land estrangement, other immovable property contained in them, which are privately owned for social or social purposes. It's a possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u164	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u165	It is anticipated that the subject of the evaluative activity of the individual initiating the ransom will be involved. And here it's controlled by all of this in accordance with the supervisory authorities of the states that review and approve the results of the evaluation. Declarations or denials of scientific expertise, well, theoretically, they make sense, but practice shows that they're just cut off from this practice. I think that in the second reading they could be worked out, so I would suggest that you adopt this bill in the first reading. In case Volodymyr Mikhailovich, if this is not supported, maybe then send for a re-first reading for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u166	Thank you. Sergey Tereshuk, deputy head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u167	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee at its meeting on March 13 discussed the above - mentioned bill. The members of the committee believe that the bill deserves the full support. The issues raised in the bill are now relevant. Now, here's the situation. Some kind of construction has to be done. We need to expand transport infrastructure. And there are situations where the land that is to be built is either leased or used, and this is the land of state ownership. The rapporteur noted that the issue of the secession of private land is regulated today by legislation, and, paradoxically speaking, public areas today cannot be estranged under this law. That's why we think the bill is needed today, and it needs to be accepted. The observation is today from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, but I agree with the reporter, and we'll take them into account when we're working on the second reading. They'll be counted, they're not important. The committee therefore requests that the bill be supported and accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to discuss this matter, please sign in. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Soročinska Kirilenko, please. Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u169	Thank you, Raisa Mikolayevna. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know, today perhaps this is the first time that, during the discussion, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group changed its attitude towards the relevant bill. In principle, we didn't want to support this bill and we came up with such a view that if we were actually negligent or considered worthless because of any action, even if they were written so beautifully in this bill, but determined by a worthless agreement to sell a land or real estate, it was in our opinion a violation of the Constitution. Well, if you'll excuse me, whatever the deal is, it's "the resistance of the parties" if you speak Russian. But if we call on any additional assessor on the side, but also on the part of the interested person, the representatives of the State, the territorial community, who appreciates this object in the same way and in the same way that it is convenient for this party, it may be a violation of the rights of those people who now own these things. However, if we try to align these positions before the second reading, and the report on this issue on the identity committee will make it clear that we are ready to work until the second reading, there are no questions. We are ready to support this bill in the first reading. We'll work together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has pointed to a number of issues and believes that the bill should be sent for further work. The proposal for a committee, i.e. a regulatory committee, is based on the adoption of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the cessation of the right to use land for social purposes]] [[Registration number 9557]] Please vote. [[13:25:12]] For 244 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on improving the registration procedure for political parties]] [[Registration number 7253]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:25:48]] For 204 Decision taken. The reporter is Sergey Vlasenko. Is there a reporter? I can't see. The reporter is Sergey Podgorny. None. Please, Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u171	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! On September 7, 2011, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed a bill submitted by the Ukrainian National MP Vlasenko. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Political Parties in Ukraine, on the Unification of Citizens. [[on the legislative regulation of the State registration procedure]] We note that on March 22, 2012, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted, on a second reading and in general, the Ukrainian Law on Public Organizations, which defines those who have lost their validity since its entry into force, the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Citizens. The Committee noted that the adopted Ukrainian Law on Public Associations provided for the simplification of the state registration of public associations, the introduction of regulations to monitor the activities of these organizations into European standards. At the same time, the committee points out that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Public Organizations does not extend to social relations in the sphere of formation, registration, activity, and political parties. In connection with the above, it is therefore necessary to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Political Couples Act. But the committee does not support the legislative initiative to modify part of article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties, which is to change the position of the Ministry of Justice to make the registration of political parties with the wording that the registration of political parties is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs. The Committee believes that the removal from the law of the said provision will lead to the creation of legal colleges in the division of tasks, functions and powers between the judicial authorities and state registries, The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, recommends that the first reading of the bill return to the subject of the legislative initiative. In view of the above.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u172	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u173	In view of the above, the committee concluded: Recommending that the draft law be restored to the subject of the legislative initiative on the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u174	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? No one insists. Besides Knazevitch, others insist? Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the point is. Let me disagree with the committee's point of view. Because, unfortunately, we are now in the middle of a serious legal conflict and, in fact, a legal gap that needs to be settled. That's what this is about. During the administrative reform initiated by President Yanukovic, you recall that all powers regarding the registration of legal persons in the state are vested in a special body, the newly created State Registration Service, which is the sole authority of the executive branch, and its activities are governed by the Ministry of Justice. And all valid standards of Ukrainian legislation, including the Political Parties Act, provide that the registration of political parties, including as legal persons, is carried out by the Ministry of Justice, which is the curator of the relevant State Registration Service. Thus, Vlasenko tries to resolve this gap in some way by amending the Public Registration Law and passing it on to the State Registration Service. Because they've already been handed over by the President's decree approving the state registration service. That is, we now have basically two bodies to register political parties: the Ministry as the executive body and the State Registration Service as the executive body, which is directed and coordinated by the Ministry of Justice. We need to solve this one way or another because we're ahead of the electoral process. Remember, we've removed the restrictions on the registration of political parties in 365 days, and we might have a question when the parties will try to form even before the election process. In order to prevent any obstacle on this path, we need to settle this issue as proposed by Vlasenko. So I urge everyone to vote in favour of this law, because it is the only mechanism that will allow this issue to be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u176	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on improving the registration procedure for political parties]] [[Registration number 7253]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:31:17]] For 20 Not supported. There was a proposal for a committee and a science-expert management to work on. I'll put this motion to the vote. [[13:31:43]] For-7. The bill was rejected. We are considering the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on the appointment of a fixed-term pension at the age of military personnel]] [[Registration number 8341]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:32:22]] For 217 Supported. Report to the author of the Bill, Catherine Samuel, please. Prepare Kulczynski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, everyone who listens to us, too, I have drafted this bill in connection with the fact that, during our meetings with our voters, we have been approached on several occasions by the proposal to make such changes to the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on National Insurance. [[on the appointment of a fixed-term pension at the age of military personnel]] With this question came especially to us women who, along with men were Afghans, were in Algeria, were in Cuba, were in other hot spots of our country. And taking into account the numerous appeals made by citizens who worked in the military at the time of the fighting and have the status of a participant in the fighting, and are proposing to amend the law that I have called above. The bill proposes the granting of a listed category to military personnel, the persons in charge, the government composition of internal affairs bodies, who also worked for free employment in the military parts of the States, where fighting activities were carried out during this time and have the status of a participant in the hostilities of the right to an early retirement pension, but not earlier than 5 years before the retirement age provided for in article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on General Compulsory State Pension Insurance, with an insurance period of not less than 25 years for men and not less than 20 years for women. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine supports the bill without notice. The Committee on Budgets is against it. And the Committee on Veterans and Pensioners is against it. That's how this committee is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u178	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u179	Thus, this committee responds to the many thousands of proposals made by people who carried out an international duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u180	Yes, please, from the Committee of Mikola Grigorovitch Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, well, the committee's accusations, Mrs. Catherine, do not need a job. Because the Social Policy Committee constantly protects the rights of pensioners, disabled persons, veterans and does so constantly. With regard to Bill No. 8341, Bill No. 8341 was considered on October 12, 2011. In fact, the bill grants the right to pensions at the age of the established retirement age to members of the armed forces, to persons of the primary and military ranks of internal affairs that worked in the military at the time of fighting and have the status of a participant in hostilities. In contrast to the bill submitted between the text of the bill, which foresees a reduction in the retirement age for military personnel and an explanatory note to it, which deals with civilians, attention is drawn to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on National Security and Defence. In fact, the author of the bill proposes to grant the right to retire with a reduction in the retirement age of the free-at-arms who, working in the military, participated in hostilities. The Committee on Budgetary Questions does not support the bill, of course. However, it notes that the adoption of the proposed changes will lead to an increase in the number of persons eligible for early retirement and, as a result, additional expenditure from the State budget on their payments. The National Security and Defence Committee recommends that the Supreme Council return the prescribed draft for further work. The main scientific and expert office also suggests that we go to work and that it is based on its decision. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, supporting the idea of establishing for all participants the same right to receive pensions with a reduction in retirement age, is still in agreement with the conclusion of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration. And recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u182	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u183	I'm done. . return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing. [[on the appointment of a fixed-term pension at the age of military personnel]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u184	Thank you. Please write down if you wish to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u185	Personally, I believe that. If you'll excuse me, one, half a minute. Those who were in Afghanistan, no matter whether they were, were fighting with a machine, whether they were on, doing operations at least. Or did anything in part. There's got to be the same approach to everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u186	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat. Vladimir Danilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u187	Please pass the word to Gordienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u188	Sergei Gordijenko, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I appeal to all representatives of the political forces to support this bill. There's a reporter here, and we've all seen and understood that this is about the participants in the fighting, about the people who were in the fighting camps who were involved in the fighting, maybe not directly. But you realize that without these people, there has been no success in the best of things, and it has not been possible to carry on these fighting activities. They're the ones who took the ammunition, they're the ones who treated them, the right ones, and so on. Sometimes it was under fire, just under fire, and directly in these fighting activities. Ladies and gentlemen! So again and again, let us support this category of people, including many women! It's about early retirement. We understand that neither the authorities nor the other political powers of this bill will support it. But, comrades, once again we draw attention to the very shameful fact that our country does not even have data, how many of these persons are there and how many will apply to this bill. Let's think about the future! Let's think about our army! What if something happens, who's going to protect you? Who's going to fight? And who do you vote for to be sent abroad to perform various international missions? Who will go there knowing that he has no social protection? On behalf of the faction of the Company of Ukraine, I urge you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u189	Please, Hasuk. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u190	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In general, the MP for Future Reform supports the principle of equal rights for all participants in the fight for pensions, with a reduction of 5 years. However, in this case, it should be the assignment of a pension with a reduction in the retirement age of the free-at-arms who worked in the military were involved in hostilities. In addition, the explanatory note states that the implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State budget. However, this statement does not correspond to reality, since the expenditure on the appointment of early retirement according to paragraph 3 of the Final Provisions of the Law on Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance is to be financed at the expense of the state budget of Ukraine. Therefore, in support of the idea of a just pension for all participants in hostilities, the MP's "For the Future" group is calling attention to the need to address the shortcomings noted. In view of the above, we propose to support the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u191	Jaroslav Suhi. Behind him is Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, I think I'm going to express a point of view, just take it, move away from this problem or pretend it's not there, you can't see this problem. And what's more, the drafter of the bill, 100 percent of the law, actually with such letters, with such proposals, with such requests, and then with MPs, we have a lot of people coming to us who have gone through a tough test school. And I'll tell you, eventually, the question of expanding the number of people who will have the right to receive pensions and a reduction in retirement age will be settled if not in this, then in subsequent laws it is mandatory. But what I want to say today is, this law, this bill would be opposed, like the previous bill on the priority of developing a machine complex. Few of them are in the hall today, these leaders who have told us that the Ukrainian national deputies will be in the hands of the Ukrainians every day, who are not in the room today. And I think it's time to make an offer to Arsenija Petrovich Yatzenyuk, whose card is here in the hall, and better yet, give her a mandate and go into the field for herself to advertise. He's not in the hall today. Another of the circumcised opposition from the rostrum raised us all, told us how to live, and was not alone in the hall. Come on, fellow believers, remember that you are such and who brought you here. You were brought here by the electorate to work here. So I think that the opposition should go back to the hall and work with those people who took responsibility for Ukraine's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u193	Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, if this bill is rejected, obviously we're going to give it, but we're going to put it a little bit in a different form, so we're going to take down some of the contradictions that are involved in this project. Look, in one term, we have people who were directly at the front, and the people who were at the service, that's the logic, is that the degree of risk is different. And it is because of the fact that these people need to be mentioned that they need to be mentioned in a separate paragraph, and that makes sense. And no wonder, we have a committee of veterans against this law, because they have a certain pride, a person who stood under bullets, and one who was really in the back. And that's where they need to be understood. People need to be supported, the problem needs to be solved, but in a slightly different way. That's another thing. Let's be honest. Why didn't the President pass this bill with a lecture on how much it costs? Why did he send Communists under the bullet? Why did this happen? Because there's no explanation of how much it costs the budget. We're willing to vote, but we want to know how much the budget costs, and what the balance of the budget will be. And the third position. It entered into force on January 1, 2012. It's been a long time. I mean, I understand if it's 2013. Because what does the Codex Budget say? Any bill that provides for changes in income and expenditure should be submitted by 15 August. So we're going to give it, we're going to confirm it, and for the next year, we're ready for this system to work. Hence, taking into account these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u195	The discussion is over, dear colleagues. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on the appointment of a long-term pension at the age of military personnel]] [[Registration number 8341]] Please vote. [[13:45:45.]] For-58 The factions. The Party of Regions – 1, BUT – 1, "Our Ukraine" – 9, the Communists – 25, the People's Party did not vote, "Reforms" – 18, non-fractional – 4. There is a proposal by the committee and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[13:46:24]] For-53 Unfortunately, the bill has been rejected. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[on public regulation in the area of natural gas self-sustainment]] [[Registration number 9155]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:47:01]] For 215 Decision taken. And I'm announcing a 15-minute extension. Yes, please, the author of the bill, Sergey Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, is both from the committee and the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u196	Good afternoon, distinguished audiences and listeners! I want to present a bill that's very simple in its essence. The point is that over the past two years we have witnessed total theft by the ruling regime of our own people, and unfortunately, this has been particularly evident in energy, especially in the price of tariffs, electricity and gas. In this hall about a year and a half ago, the ruling majority adopted a 24 billion - dollar - dollar This is all because 8 billion dollars of population debt has not been written off. In this room a year ago, a very interesting bill was adopted, covering the slogans for European integration, allowing for the export of gas of its own production abroad. And another bill allowed companies to use gas for their own needs. What does that mean? The thing is, Ukraine is winning. In 2009, about 20 billion cubic feet [20 billion cubic meters] of gas was mined. This is because consumption of the population and of the LHC varies depending on the temperature regime -- 21 to 22 billion cubic meters. That's actually 90 percent of what we can do to cover our own needs for the population and housing and utilities with our own cheap gas. But, of course, how can you live with that? And so it was decided that our cheap Ukrainian gas is not to sell to the population, but to export our cheap state gas, and 98 percent of that gas is produced by 50 percent companies. shares to state companies, allowing "communities" to use it to make profits, using it as a raw material for chemical enterprises. The bill, which I present, introduces a specific cost-effectiveness – 15 per cent for the gas of its own production and obliges all the gas to which the state relates – 98 per cent of the total gas – to channel exclusively to the needs of the population and housing and utilities. [[I want to emphasize again.]] At the cost of our gas, 300-400 bracelets, this will allow us not to raise the tariffs on the LHC, which will allow people to benefit from the total increase. By the way, with the opportunity, I want to inform everyone that yesterday the ICRE has already raised electricity prices. After the election of the following day, the price of the gas I am talking about will be raised, covering some of the obligations there. This bill and voting for it will clearly show who is really concerned about the interests of the electorate and our people, and who is just covering his slogans for real action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u197	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Who insists on the performance? Sign up. Please, Danilenko. Behind him is Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u198	Please pass the word to Sergei Vladimirovich Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u199	Gordijenko's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u200	Sergey Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina – the one where natural gas is most extracted. Here the reporter told the story of how someone is destroying Ukraine and what abuses are occurring in the natural gas market. So what I'd like to say is that in Poltavšina, just like in a single drop of water, you're showing where you're showing opposition, and there you're kissing people you hate so much, because your government and today's government are involved in the complete theft of our Poltavski nads. And it was through the decisions of both governments that practically destroyed one of the largest companies in Poltava Naftogazgeology, where there were 12,000 employees. And look what's happening there today. Today, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the faction of the Company of Ukraine will definitely support this bill. But let's talk today about Russian gas and this criticism. Let's seriously talk about Ukrainian gas today. Let's take the example of the Poltava region today, and let's say how many wells in Poltavska, who they belong to, who they control, how much they extract, what prices, where they put and where these costs come from. Let's look at the cost of this gas and the revenue. Let's be honest with the Ukrainian community about the quality of the gas that is being served today for domestic needs. Now let's be honest about what self-governance schemes are making decisions about putting new areas into development and more. The issue of Ukrainian gas, the issue of national security and enough talk about Russian gas, and let us make sure that our Ukrainian gas is more extracted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u201	Vladimir Yavorowski, followed by Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, I have the impression that we are already in so much trouble in Ukraine that we would all have to walk in countergases and nothing else. I also want to remind you that the first Ukrainian wealth and later the oligarchs grew up in the gas field. As Chernomirdin once said, "My life has been in the atmosphere of oil and gas." What do I mean? It's probably just Kravczuk falling out of this hug somehow. But I want to remind you that at Kuchma, I was on this kind of financial run by Igor Bakay, and remember the records of the famous Major Melnicken, where Kuchma says that we should immediately go, that means ten million, because I have a second round of elections. And Baki says to him, "No money like that, but I'll give mine." The same thing with Victor Yushchenk and I would just like to remind our voters about what was signed in the agreement, was signed this deal really, cordal and difficult for Ukraine, no one would deny it. Thanks to Yushchenkov, who actually responded to Dubina at a time when the Russians were already ready to sign a much cheaper price, but Yushchenko called off Dubina and because of that, the Russians said, "Well, what do you want from us, houghs? We'll sign that. What we're going to say is you're going to sign." Because of this, it seems to me that this bill, which is really swinging at that corrupt flow, is colossal when our Ukrainian cheap gas is actually going to export, in this case it's going to be in this bill of our colleague, it's about not allowing more than 15 percent of the profits of those companies that trade in gas and really allow it only to those companies, those enterprises that have more. Fifty percent, or more, of the state’s shares. I think it's a very smart bill and I think we should vote it out, but I don't think that's the composition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u203	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw you to the election, this is the convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we've all talked about the same thing: how much our Ukrainian gas costs, how much it costs the population, why we keep people under a sword, threats of foam, fines and so forth. I'd like to make one comment to the author. I understand the opposition is the opposition, the rally's upheaval is the upheaval, but you're going to stop fooling people about the 24 billion that someone has written to the oligarchs. Heatcommunergo's debt is written off for giving heat to the population at a higher price for gas. In order not to raise tariffs for the population, that was the decision to make. If there's anything else, I'm asking you to go to court. Because today it's not someone else's name that's being considered as a gas market machination, it's your leader's name for all the works that were done by EESU, along with English and offshore companies. Let's not talk about it. About the bill. But I would vote for it with both hands if this bill were that Ukrainian gas, at any cost, depends on the mining company, all went to the needs and needs of the Ukrainian consumer. But this law about other things, it speaks of the rate of profitability of these enterprises. The mechanism cannot introduce the price mechanism of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And one more thing. If, thanks to your lady, we're buying 450 dollars in Russia, now 505 dollars for a thousand cubes of gas, what should our manufacturer sell 300 dollars? Why is he being punished? Let's figure out this profitability by coming up with some market approach, market price. Today, the population does not have a rise in tariffs. To cure us there after the election is some kind of manic-depressive psychosis. We'll figure out what we're going to do. Today, this bill does not correspond to its essence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u205	Chaplain, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u206	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, we find this proposal quite appropriate. However, I would like to draw attention to a few questions. First. Here we point out that it is the state-owned enterprises or enterprises that have a part of the state that must comply with the standards defined by this law, in particular the transfer of price adjustments through the NCRE to the population. Please tell me, how many state-owned enterprises are involved in the gas industry in the state? Well, obviously not 20 billion cubes, I assure you. That's the first one. The other one. Today, I have supported the previous speaker that the population does not pay at the prices at which we purchase gas abroad. To this day, it's coming from the government budget. We suggest that we support this bill in the first reading. But what we suggest is that only a small fraction of state enterprises will be taxed or subject to this law. So let's put in a real rent on natural fossils, especially gas mines and naphtha, and then we're going to take all the enterprises that are doing this. And the revenue part of the budget is going to be much higher. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u207	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market on State regulation in the area of natural gas supply to the population. [[Registration number 9155]] Please vote. [[13:59:06]] For-56 Unfortunately, it's not supported. The bill was rejected. Factions: Regional Party - 2, Fatherland - 2, Our Ukraine - 11, Communists - 22, The People's Party - did not vote, reforms - 15, non-fractional - 4. Because whoever's yelling "time," I'm reminding them that I've resumed the session for 15 minutes. Draft Act amending article 536 of the Civil Code of Ukraine. [[about the size of interest on using other people's money]] [[Registration number 9220]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[14:00:00]] For 208 Supported. National MP Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich reports. Prepare Zabarski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u208	Dear colleagues, this is a draft Ukrainian law amending article 536 of the Ukrainian Civil Code. [[about the size of interest on using other people's money]] A legal analysis of the practice of settling disputes between the courts and the general courts on the use of foreign funds revealed that these courts, applying the rules of current legislation of Ukraine when considering cases of the same category, made the opposite conclusions without the uniformity in the legal position. In particular, this applies to cases where the debtor does not perform his or her obligations under the contract and does not refund the amount of the previous payment, and the amount of the interest on the use of other people’s money is not provided for in the contract. Article 536 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which now regulates the question of the accrual of interest on the use of money, is very concise and therefore presents some difficulty in applying it. In view of what different courts have done to deal with cases involving the collection of interest on the use of foreign funds, they have different approaches to their consideration. In some cases, if the amount of interest not foreseen by the treaty is applied by article 1048 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, in other cases by article 625 of the Civil Code. Since the courts are governed by the rules of the Ukrainian Civil Code, the bill proposes to supplement article 536 of the Civil Code with part three, which provides that if a contract or other act of civil law does not set interest, it is determined at the level of the National Bank of Ukraine’s account rate. The adoption of this law will remove the gap in the legislative settlement of the issue of the collection of interest on the use of foreign money. It will encourage unscrupulous debtors to carry out their obligations more quickly and will improve the quality of judicial action by the courts of Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u209	Thank you. From the Zabarski Vladislav Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting discussed the draft Law of Ukraine amending article 536 of the Ukrainian Civil Code of September 27, 2011. [[about the size of interest on using other people's money]] [[Registration number 9220]] As the drafter has already pointed out, the aim is to regulate the question of setting interest rates for the use of foreign money in the event that this size is not determined by the parties to the contract. According to the paper, the adoption of amendments to article 536 of the Civil Code will remove the gap in the legislative settlement of the issue. The main scientific and expert management, in its conclusion, expressed support for the adoption of the bill on the basis of the following comments and proposals made. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee on Legal Policy has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u211	Thank you. Yes, who, apart from Arjevitin, insists? Sign up. Please, Chaplain. Behind him, Stojko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u212	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Well, the MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill. We think it's quite positive. Of course, many legal, natural persons have suffered in the past 15-20 years, when in some or other agreements involving a loan agreement or some other debt obligation at an undetermined rate, it was for a court to decide whether or not a person was affected. And on the condition that we sometimes have a rather strange judgment today, it has, in my view, suffered the part of the population that should not have suffered. The limit of 7.5 percent of a year, as it is today, is, in our view, quite positive. However, there are some shortcomings. First. Today, current legislation does not preclude the use of foreign funds without interest, but the bill does not specify under what circumstances. That is, under what circumstances, whether we should then enter into a corresponding record or a subscription: the cost is free of charge. If so, then we turn to the people of Ukraine: Please be careful after the adoption of this bill and write the corresponding tapes! The second question. We would like to make an additional proposal to determine the bill that is used in any other bill on the day of the return of someone else’s money. Because in the bill or in the initiative, the legislators did not pay attention. Once again, I stress that the MP's Reform Group for the Future supports this bill in its first reading. We are confident that by the second reading of this whole bill we will be working on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u213	Stojko's handing over Arjevetina, please. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u214	Dear National Deputies! Now, I'm going to try some examples of how many questions will be raised between Ukrainian citizens, it would seem, a simple edit. This is about the size of interest rates. So, if you use the word interest rate, that indicates that the citizens made a deal with each other, they wrote in the contract that "you're going to pay me interest," but they accidentally forgot to write the size of it. And then in this one case, which maybe for a thousand cases, this rule is going to apply. So once again, if we leave it that way, it's only going to apply to contracts where we accidentally forgot to put the number. And if there's no mention in the deal that "you're gonna pay me for these. For using your money," how do you apply it? Do not apply. Please tell me here is a reference to the National Bank account. Questions. What if the loan's in dollars? There's no dollar bill for the National Bank. And you are, you know, the bill rate for the bracelet loan and the dollar rate is two very big differences. Therefore, we also need to be more careful about applying the interest rate. If the case is extinguished with pieces, please tell us which account to use. For what period? There was an offer to set up an end-of-payment account. Why not start with a floating bill? And how to apply it inside, to the part that had already been extinguished. That is, it will also cause some conflict of interest in the common people. Next. Estimated rate. I'd like to know if the author meant tax. You know, in a few years, we're going to be paying taxes on deposits, percentages that are paid in credit institutions. I wanted to give an answer to those Ukrainians who would apply this standard. Well, there's still, of course, a contradiction to the working standards. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u215	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u216	I think in the first, really, reading this needs to be supported. But the second, I would like us to be more careful that these conflicts disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u217	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u218	Dear colleagues, you could limit yourself to one proposal, take as a basis, but I would like to point out that this bill is a necessary and long-awaited step. The national deputies of Ukraine, who did not break up with the majority districts, will confirm my words. There's a lot of letters and a lot of complaints about so-called financial intermediaries that take money, and then not that interest, and the money goes down. It's mostly about credit unions, and I don't want to offend them all, but there's a lot of complaints about that. So the bill clearly lists and secures other people's money, human money transferred to the government to make interest, and the firm, the financial intermediary, to invest it, for example, in some kind of production. And this bill, which protects the rights of our people, should be made by opposition. Well, what do you say when this so-called self-proclaimed or someone-appointed leader of the opposition is absent today. There's his card in the card company to make money. He forgot that he had been chosen for five years not to live and benefit at the expense of the State. If this man is not going to the session, let him come in nicely, beautifully tomorrow to the session hall, their day of opposition, fold up his authority and be with clean hands, go into the field with clean eyes, acknowledgment for himself. Today we cannot do as opposition does. He's coming, he's told us some of his things and he's gone out of the hall. Where he's going right now, no one knows. There's a card right here. That's not the point. That's not the point. The opposition should be ashamed of such leaders. Such leaders must be overturned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-15-m0.u219	The question is closed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 536 of the Ukrainian Civil Code on the size of interest on the use of foreign funds. [[Registration number 9220]] Please vote. [[14:10:31]] For 265 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. We'll start tonight at 4:00, and then we'll finish when we have all the questions. I remind you that we voted in the morning for this decision.
