ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u1	Please calm down. Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, guests! Dear friends! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:14]] There are 358 national deputies present. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear National Deputies! On November 29, 2012, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, Marmazov Eugène Vasilovich, elected on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency. Included in the polling list of the Communist Party of Ukraine. On December 24, 2012, Polakova Vasil Leonidovic. Chosen on October 28, 2012, in a state-wide multi-mandatory constituency. Included in the selection list of the Regional Party. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Marmazov, Eugene Vasilovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare of the country, the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u3	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasil Leonidovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u4	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u5	Let's congratulate the people's deputies, wish them success in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, some announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation of the Seventh Interfractional MPs Union for the Supreme Council of Ukraine "For Kharkiv, for Slobodan!".. Pisarenka Valerija Volodymirovich, National Deputy of Ukraine, was elected as Head of the Interfractional Union. Another announcement. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the establishment of the Seventh Interfractional Group "Galicina" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional group "Galicina" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation was the elected National Deputy of Ukraine, Montenegro, Roman Tarasovich. One more. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of an interfractional parliamentary association "Equal Opportunities". The heads of the "Equal Opportunities" MPs of Ukraine elected the National Deputies of the Coastal Irina Grigorovna, Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna and Kondratjuk Olen Kostinenovna. And there's an announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59, 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with a personal statement made, I report the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Polakov Vasil Leonidovic, into the Party of the Regions. Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to make statements to the authorized representatives of the MPs with proposals, announcements, statements, reports. Therefore, I ask the factions to sign up for the performance. Here comes the recording. It's recorded from the factions: Vitalia Klitschka Faction, Mathios. Who? Vitalia Klitschka, director of the Vitalia Klitschka faction. Please. 30 minutes, six minutes from each faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u6	Dear friends, as always, at the end of the year all summarize the year before. And today, if we do the math last year, they're unfortunately inconvenient to people. This year, Ukraine, with all international ratings, has unfortunately become even more corrupt and much more harsh for its citizens. Sadly, the poor have become even poorer. And at the same time, the billionaires did, they increased their wealth a lot. The budget debt reached a critical limit. For the following year, the government plans to raise wages by only 13 dollars. In fact, self-sustainment is increasing by two and a half billion. The elections went through serious legislative violations. If we talk about the elections that have now taken place and you and I are representatives of the people. If it weren't for the massive use of administrative and financial resources, there would be a very different majority in this room. We have to consider this step and change electoral legislation. When there is no minimum democracy in the country, you can't vote for the majority system because they vote for one another, and unfortunately most people form others. Ukraine has weakened its position in the world. In fact, the country remained in international isolation because of authoritarianism and the lack of professionalism of today’s authorities. Sadly, though, the authorities do not conclude. The new state of government is a powerful example of trying to hide from the reality of family and friends. We have seen in the government representatives of all major clans who consider themselves shareholders of Ukraine. This government isn't a team of experts, it's a team based on the principle of "Every oligarch by minister." This assignment is a powerful witness not only to the extent that the authorities are not adjusted to hear the opinion and mood of the people. What should all of us do in these circumstances? For the next year of 2013, we see the key problems. First. We demand a report from Prime Minister Azarov and his team for previous activities. We want to hear about tenders, about all Hyundais, about failed reforms. The other one. The opposition will control the government. We're going to be testing the decisions on the corruption component of the damage to national interests. Third. Hit hard against any attempt to change our country's external vector. Four. We're not going to let the Bank's parliament break and conquer -- we're going to do everything we can to make it an independent authority. Fifth. We demand the release of prisoners: Timoshenko, Lucenko must be free. Six. We must punish everyone who is on time for the forging of the 2012 elections, otherwise all subsequent elections will also be falsified. Seven. We must protect Kyiv from injustice and restore Kiev’s self - control. The election of the mayor of Kiev should be no later than June of the following year. Kiev will be ruled by those who are chosen only by the Chinese, rather than by the authorities, and will not be appointed by the President. By carrying out this program, we hope to support all the opposition forces and independent MPs, we are set up to fight because we know that without the struggle of victory there will never be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u7	Thank you. The faction of the Ukrainian Company, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u8	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues, the Ukrainian Company and I state this second time, indignant that despite the brutal fraud of the head of the State over Kaskov's investments around the construction site?? LNG terminal, it's still in position, not under investigation or elsewhere. The faction of the Company requires the government and the state to release this person immediately from office. We also require law enforcement agencies, particularly the Attorney General's Office, to file a criminal case against the heads of the State for fraud and damage to the state, including at the international level. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, offering an anti-crisis anti-crisis programme and anti-crisis laws, understands that without radical changes in external economic relations, real economic disruptions, social issues, as in many others, will not really happen. That's why we're looking at Ukraine's accession to the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, to the Eurasian Economic Space that we insist on. Not as a panacea from the global socio-economic crisis, the Company really appreciates the situation and we understand the difficult way that we all have to go. But, today, and in a far-reaching way, unlike the EU, the Customs Union, it is an effective mechanism that will allow Ukraine's real economy to generate the necessary natural and energy resources, commodity markets, contribute to the development of industrial and agricultural operations, the development of scientific production, the creation of new jobs, such as wages, pensions, additional funds for social programmes, education, science, the medical care of our citizens, and so on. The Customs Union for Ukraine opens the door to the SCO and BRICS markets, so the historical allegations of so-called Euro-Integrators and pseudo-patriots, saying the introduction to the Customs Union will end European independence and turn Ukraine into a colony of Russia and so on, it's a complete nonsense. First of all, you can't lose what you don't have, modern Ukraine by ear in debt to world speculators from the International Monetary Fund and in the WTO trade cabal, which means it's entirely dependent on the whims of these international monsters and the strong confirmation of these, it's acceptance by the IMF of an anti-social state budget against which only a faction of communists has voted in full. This is also the adoption of pension reform, which is the requirements of the International Monetary Fund to raise prices and tariffs for gas, and to reduce the financing of all of our social programs in Ukraine. Secondly, despite the constant statements of support for Ukraine's energy dependency, it was the European Union that issued Ukraine, as it is said, when it agreed to build the South Stream. They got their own cheap gas prices, and I want to ask the poor reformers, and now what do we do with our gas transport system, put it on a scrap metal? That's how it really is, and it's the policy of 20 years in Ukraine, and it tells us that these are the areas and principles of the Ukrainian economy that are simply being destroyed because of these non-consequential actions that are taking place in Ukraine. The only thing we've done in the European Union in 20 years is look through our fingers at illegal migrants and workers from Ukraine who are willing to do any dirty and underpaid work in search of a piece of bread. For us communists, concepts such as patriotism and the love of the country's home land are not limited to the size of Cossacks, not related to xenophobic views and nationalistic mantras such as "Ukraine for Ukrainians" and Euro-integration shamanism. For us patriotism, first of all, it's a hard struggle to keep the homes warm, to keep people safe, to have jobs and a decent salary or a pension so that they don't get thrown out on the street like now, so that everyone has the ability, regardless of the means, to receive modern education, qualified medical care so that everyone can hear himself as a host on earth, not in receptions at foreign benefactors and their political sites. Ukraine must make a choice, but it must be the choice of the people, not the oligarchs. The company insists that such important principles, which today put life ahead of Ukraine, should be decided by the people of Ukraine, who are the only source of power in Ukraine and who are resolved in the country's national referendums. Dear compatriots, today, it is now 95 years old when at the First All-Ukrainian Assembly the council, which took place from 25 to 26 December 1917 in Kharkiv, was announced the establishment of Soviet power in Ukraine. And five years later, on December 30, the Soviet Union was formed, in which socialist Ukraine became a country, one of the most important development indicators of the world’s first ten leading states, one of the founding nations of the United Nations, a country where our people’s eternal dream was to unite historic lands in the only Soviet Socialist State. This gives us every reason to say today: all that was done by our predecessors, and today it gives us the opportunity to survive Ukraine, for they are still robbing and stealing what was created during the years of Soviet power in the Soviet Ukraine. I welcome all those who care about the past today and who think about the future. I welcome all our citizens with this remarkable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u9	Thank you. National Deputy Shevchenko, Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u10	Please hand over Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u11	National MP Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u12	Dear fellow countrymen! I have great pleasure today to welcome our Christian brothers, Roman Catholics and Protestants with the great Christmas Christ. Christ was born! But on such a holiday for so many people, we must talk about the real things and about the real country in which we live. Yesterday was a sign, a symbolic day, very many people who still hope that President Viktor Yanukovich and his team might come to their senses and start doing something in line with what they promised in the presidential elections, had the hope of seeing a new government -- a government with a strategy, a program and an understanding of what needs to be done for people. Yesterday we saw a government formed on the principles of monarchism and the principles of coastalism. The government, where there would be a mix of people who are provided to fill their pockets and pockets with their own business, as well as those who have done nothing in their lives for their own country, has not yet been in the Ukrainian state. Many experts say that this is the government of the dream of Viktor Yanukovich, because the Janukovich family has never stood so firmly on their feet and finances as now that the government has been created. I don't know what the Prime Minister will do. Perhaps flowers are to be laid, wreaths or something, but it is clear that the Minister, the Ministry of Income or the Ministry of Income of the Janukovic family is in the right hands and in the right pockets. Friends, those single people who believed that there were people in power who were concerned about the state, I think they all ended yesterday. Not only is it important for us to say critical things about the government. It's important for us today to say that there wasn't such a December period in the Ukrainian State when most areas had no budgets, if the city heads from the leaders of the Party of Regions to Freedom and Fatherland didn't know what to do with pensioners and budgeters. There was no year where every city, beginning with the famous capital of Kiev, cleans up snow in debt. There was no one who could sit for several days, as during the Stalingrad War, in Western Ukraine and not know who would help them. Friends who will be responsible for this authority and for the actions it has taken. The united opposition of Fatherland is convinced that we do not have the moral right to begin celebrating the New Year or Christmas of Christ until there is an old prime minister on this rostrum who will tell us whether he has the dignity and courage to pay the pension, the wages of the people for December -- and normally transfer the country to another year. As long as the subsidies of local authorities that are being humiliated before the treasury, where payments lie for two or three months on basic payments, you get those subsidies that they are obliged to get, because it's the same thing, friends, not what they want, is what you owe them. When we hear the key officials here say that "this year we have fulfilled our obligations to the people, and next year we will act here"? Choosing a government blind and dark is a disgrace because no one knows why this government is assembled. One Deputy Prime Minister is responsible for the Customs Union and the other Minister is responsible for the European Union. I have a question: yes, at the end of the day, where do you lead the country: to the Customs Union, to the European Union, or at the same time to the Customs and European Union? We can't leave the country. The country you made today is a country one day, it's a country without hope, it's a country that doesn't know where to go. That's why we, as an opposition, are going to do everything here in Parliament, Prime Minister, government officials go to work and inform what they are doing in order to fulfil the commitments they have made to the people and the commitments they have made to the people. It is vital for us to stop the country from living in debt. The government starts the morning with what it thinks is a debt taker — in Russia, in China, or in the International Monetary Fund. Today, we need to return the money that is totally exported to offshore areas. You look at the statistics this year: the main investor, second in investment, Cyprus, and most of the money that comes back, which is imported into Ukraine, is Cyprus. Well, isn't it clear that we have to stop today, not the currency tax, 15 percent put on Ukrainian citizens, but the tax on wealth?Oh, my God! The whole of Europe today has a solid tax on the rich, does the government not have the courage, the courage to say that rich people should not steal money from the country but invest the country and allow people today to feel confident? I believe that we, as opposition, will be able to achieve what the government will report this year, to fulfill our obligations? The fact that Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko will be at large with us, is that the disgrace of that country, where politicians honored by a large number of people, are spending Christmas or New Year's holidays and not the first year behind bars. They must be with us, and society must listen to them and work with them. I think we're going to live until the authorities think that she didn't do what she did for the President's family when the Ukrainian authorities think she did what she did for Ukraine. I believe that, and we'll do anything to make it happen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u13	Thank you. Party of regions, People's Deputy of China.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u14	Respectable citizens, honourable deputies! It ends in 2012 – a year responsible for both socio-economic and socio-political tests for the Ukrainian people and the state. In 2012, there was a very sharp, competitive election campaign to form a new composition of the Supreme Council. Practically in most cases, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been updated. So we're confident that right now we need a deep, depoliticized, systematic, highly professional analysis of the state's real results. We are confident that all of us in this room and in Ukrainian society are united in the will to build a competitive modern independent state of Ukraine. World experience confirms that such results are achieved only by the consolidated nations. Let's face it, we dream that there's a systemic opposition in Ukraine that doesn't destroy the state and the economy, it doesn't tarnish the state's authority in the world, it's a powerful ruler of power. The source of alternative conclusions, programs, development strategies. And that is the only way to develop an effective strategy for Ukraine’s development, which should unite us all, regardless of the political color. The results of 2012 are certainly complex and ambiguous. Despite the sharp deterioration of the world’s economic situation in Europe’s world markets, we did not allow the economy to fall sharply. And Ukraine, thanks to the hard work of the entire Ukrainian people, ends the year with positive levels of gross domestic product, low inflation that they dream about in the world, a stable financial system, and a national monetary unit. Although we certainly failed to overcome that unprecedented crisis, the decline in Ukraine's economy in 2008-2009, when we lost 27 percent of industrial production as a state in 2 years. The initial agreement on Ukraine's associated membership in the European Union with the free trade component. And we clearly stress that this direction is irreversible for us. Entry into the EU is not an end in itself. Our will to build modern European standards of economy, life, human rights, freedom of speech in Ukraine. A new edition of the Ukrainian National Security Strategy, military doctrine, the concept of further reform and development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces has been approved. This is a matter of great national importance, national security. And together with the government, with the President, we need to put these strategic documents into practice. Ukraine has taken a decisive step, and I want to pay special attention to this, and I have put into the World Trade Organization a package of proposals to protect my own national economic interests. We can't forget what a phenomenon like competition existed, existed and would exist, and Ukraine today is strengthening all the ways of protecting national economic interests throughout the perimeter, regardless of the direction of the West or the East. And when it comes to creating jobs on Ukrainian soil, developing domestic national production, importing, localizing production, despite personal political opposition, we have to make those decisions that enable us to realize our huge Ukrainian potential. Of course, it is very important that in the current year we have adopted an entire package of legislation that enables us to develop modern civil society. The President's decree approved the Civil Society Development Strategy in Ukraine. Parliament approved a number of Ukrainian laws, including the Unification of Ukrainian Citizens Act. This is very important because of the irreversibility of Ukraine's development on the basis of civil democratic society and the constant dialogue of the state-of-the-community, and this is the guarantee of our effective development. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a very important task ahead of us, and we need to understand that 2013 is a year, first and foremost, of internal risks, and only our will and work can overcome them. Starting with the development of domestic production, the formation of a modern monetary and credit system, energy security, the conditions for the development of small, medium-sized businesses as the basis for a powerful middle class in Ukraine, the legal system, the protection of the rights of the owner, the investor, the resistance to corruption. And it is very important to strengthen that acquisition that we have. In all the years of Ukraine’s history, there has been no serious inter - national, inter - religious conflict. And this is our acquisition, and we must strengthen it, and it should unite us. Dear National Deputies, the faction of the Party of Regions welcomes you with the coming New Year's Eve, the Christmas of Christ, wants health, happiness, and most of all, never forget our responsibility to the Ukrainian people and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u15	Freedom Union, Oleg Tuggnibok. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u16	Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Society, first of all, let us welcome everyone who is celebrating Christmas today on the Gregorian calendar. Well, for all of us, for all of us, yesterday's kind of Christmas and New Year's gift was the President's decree on the appointment of the new old government of Azarov. And if we ask ourselves whether Ukrainian society was expecting something new, something special -- a government of reformers, a government that could provide social guarantees for Ukrainian society, a government that would take care of the national interests of the Ukrainian state, eventually a government that would demonstrate and show that we all, the Ukrainian authorities, should be public men, not those who work day-to-days to rob Ukrainian property, Ukrainian property in our pockets, to take all these assets offshore, and to work solely for their own interests, for the sake of their family. Of course, that is what happened, sadly, as the Ukrainian society predicted. We have not seen any special changes. Finally, we all knew that this government would remain the same as it was before. Since the transfer of certain individual officials, nothing will change at all. It's a puppet government. This is the same government of Azar, which should be responsible for all the three years of lawlessness that took place in the Ukrainian State. What can Ukrainian society expect? What can the Ukrainian community expect? Nothing at all. What, can Ukrainians count on an increased number of jobs or that this government will fight unemployment? Of course not. Can a small and medium-sized Ukrainian entrepreneur count on him to be able to have a viable environment for his activities, for the development of a middle class in Ukraine? Of course not. These government assignments demonstrate this. Can we count on a different level of Ukrainian health care? Oh, no. After all, people spit, especially in areas where this new government has introduced medical reform, has launched these so-called pilot projects. What is done with the Ukrainian health system? Can we count on raising the standard, the social standard in the Ukrainian community? Of course we can't count. And so we are well aware of the role that this government plays today. By the way, we can predict that this government will be short-lived. He will only carry out this transitional task so that within a year, surely another government will be created by this power, that clan, the ruling clan, to win the next election. This government began to change the structure of its activities, but in fact it is already open, demonstratively not to the government of reformers, which was expected by the Ukrainian society, but it is openly and demonstratively transformed into the government of the horde, the occupying government of the horde. What are the signs of the government of the horde? Of course, the first is to collect taxes, collect taxes from those who don't enter the power system. The second is of course to keep the people in subjection and to keep the people in fear. Finally, increased funding for the police, increased funding for the prosecutor's office, increased funding for the courts, and it shows that Ukraine is gradually becoming a police state. After all, this government will not strike a finger at the finger, unfortunately too much, to protect Ukraine's national interests, and on the contrary, they will continue to oppress and humiliate the Ukrainians. Society, in this government, a third of the government's members are practically natives, not of Ukraine, but of the Russian Federation. Well, of course you can't afford Moscow's quota. After the ominous reassurance of the Minister of Education, the Ukrainian society will not have faith in this government. A smoker who is an open - minded Ukrainian hater who returns advice to Ukrainian education. And by the way, the faction of the All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" is making a decree for the creation of a Temporary Investigation Commission on the likely theft of 37 billion funds that could be allocated to the Ministry of Education, which was administered to the Ministry of Education in the past to convene the work of this government. Instead of investing money in education, increasing the number of schools, the number of schools fell, Ukraine’s phobia flourished in education. And we understand very well that this is all related to the task of the northern neighbour for destruction, dismemberment of the Ukrainian state. But I still wanted, society, to contact all of us about the events that took place during the last week. When successful princes were allowed to humiliate national MPs, particularly in Zitomir, when Governor Sergey Ribuk allowed himself to be called by local MPs, journalists of the local people’s deputies. When Ukraine’s national deputies refused to release a session in Kiev, were not allowed to attend a session, nor were they allowed to speak in Kharkiv, Zakarpatta, when Udessa used force to refer to the Ukrainian national deputies. In the frost, entrepreneurs who came along with the people’s deputies were launched into the water of branding. This is a disgrace, society! Until there is a suitable community and its representatives, we will not be able to build a strong Ukrainian state. And the last. If you'll excuse me, 10 minutes is literally about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u17	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u18	I want to say what you and I have to say, company. Yesterday, an attempt was made, or, finally, we need to find out more, to our colleague of the Ukrainian National Deputy Valery Cherniakov from the faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, who was driving from the Zacarpathian District Council here to Kiev. And in Lucca, we don't know what kind of weapon he was using, but he was shot in the car he was driving. The bullet pierced the glass side and lodged in the soft tissue of the head, part of the temporal lobe. Fortunately, the bullet did not penetrate the skull but caused the right trauma. That's where I'm going, guys. We must now address all of us together, because this is our common cause, this is not just a matter of opposition. If the MPs are already being shot today, please forgive this is a threat, in fact, to the existence of democratic factors in the Ukrainian State. We have to ask the Attorney General's Office to take special control and control this fact, and also the fact that she is not allowed to attend a session. If the Office of the Attorney-General does not deal with the matter and give us the right conclusions, please forgive us and the Ukrainian community will deal with the matter. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Showtime's up. Therefore, honourable national deputies, we continue our consideration of the issues provided for in article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules at the first session of the newly elected Supreme Council. We need to consider the issue of the list of committees and subjects of their knowledge, the election of committee heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, secretaries, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation, and the leadership and composition of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. This issue was agreed with all the leaders of the MP factions. During the negotiations, the leaders of all the MPs came to the conclusion that it was necessary to amend article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, a proposal is made to include the matter in the agenda of our plenary meeting. The bill is given to you as a matter of fact. That's why I'm voting for the agenda of the December 25, 2012, draft Law 1158, "To amend article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Please vote. [[10:42:37]] For 341 The factions. Region Party - 174, Fatherland - 68, Vitalia Klicka - 20, Freedom - 35, Company - 29, non-fractional - 15. Did anyone raise the vote? Please, Catherinechuk, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u20	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, Fatherland faction. Volodymyr Vasilovich, so you won't be disturbed. Arsenius Petrovich, let him say it. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Volodymyr Vasilovich, you promised that before we start voting, every day we talk about who is missing, then we give instructions to technically block the ability to vote on those missing people's ballots. Vladimir Vasilovich, you promised, please do this before the vote starts, this will be a good tradition for the new parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u21	Thank you. I have information that I have been given that there is a Party of Regions, a National Deputy of Skubaszewski Stanislav Valerianovich, a National Deputy of Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, a Party of Regions, Lukashuk Oleg Grigorovich and Marmazov Evgen Vasilovich. All the data I have. Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich is present in the hall. Marmazov took an oath, but he's sick. [[B in m in s a l in]] Deputies! Questions in the agenda are included. That is why I give the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Sergiyovich Ephraim. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u22	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is proposed for the consideration of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 1158, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Ephraim, Yatsenuk, Klick, Tajnibok and Simonenko. The changes are foreseen in part four of article 34 of the Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is suggested that when committees are formed, there may be a deviation from the requirements established by law, when a committee composed of no more than ten persons is elected as a substitute for the head of the committee, and a committee comprising 11 to 20 persons, the first deputy and deputy head of the committee, and a committee comprising 21 persons and more, the first deputy and two deputy heads of the committee. I would like to point out that the need to change the provisions of article 34, section 4, of the Committee Law has not arisen today, although we now have an agreed legislative proposal. According to practice, in the fifth and sixth convocations, the issue of the election of the first deputies and deputies of committee heads, as well as the question of the number of compositions, was addressed through the adoption of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the list, the number of compositions, and the subject matter of committee knowledge. And it is clear that every call by the Supreme Council of Ukraine must effectively carry out its mission, and this requires prioritization to address socio-economic issues. We believe that the question of forming a personal composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a matter of relevance. This should take into account the maximum number of proposals for the higher legislative body to work effectively, to make balanced decisions, and to improve the drafting of article 34 will allow the role of committees and to strengthen the personal responsibility of committee management for their work, according to the subject matter of knowledge. I note that these changes will not require additional costs, because everything will be within the cost of the asset is in principle. So it is proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u23	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? None. Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote a bill amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a basis and as a whole. People's deputies please identify themselves. Vote. [[10:48:19]] For 358 Factions: Region Party - 179, Fatherland - 79, Vitalia Klicka - 23, Freedom - 35, Company - 31, non-fractional - 11. The law is passed. We are continuing our consideration of the issue of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The issue of committees is dealt with in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 5, 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property and articles 81, 82, 84 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. A draft decision from this question is given to you. At the moment, I would like to focus the attention of the Ukrainian national deputies on the main issue of our day's work. We have to do one of the very important organizational tasks of committee formation. To this end, routine work was previously carried out, but at the same time little work was done. The result of the long - term discussions was a success, I think, in conclusion. So we should, on the basis of the proposal made by the leaders of the MP factions, finally make the agreed decision. Thereafter, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can concentrate fully on one of the main vocations of legislative activity. In the previous session, I have already noted, and I would like to emphasize once again: the past election campaign is a subject of the attention of analysts and historians, and we politicians need to focus on the future, and above all on the elimination of eloquent tribunal rhetoric, and therefore on such an externally attractive everyday legislative activity. It is understandable that each political force will aim to implement its preelection program. And here's what we need to look at: the analysis of these programs shows that all parties express their vision of the major problems of today that concern society, namely education, health care, pensions, environmental and agrarian policies, problems of coping with corruption, and ultimately the issues that virtually everyone is concerned about, this is tax policy. While there are differences in the approach to solving these issues, there are also consonants. And it's places like me that should be sent to the joint legislative work of Ukrainian parliamentarians. At the same time, I hope that in an effort to implement the programmes declared by the people, all political players will make an effort to ensure that the committee discussion focuses primarily on development? Addressing the problems of a state-wide nature that will find its effect in their plans of work. I also hope that these plans will form the basis of a five-year legislative programme, which in turn will be the real basis for the legislative activity of the relevant institutions. And here, I think, is the parliamentary committee and, above all, the committee on legal policy. According to article 82, part 4, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the heads of committees, the first deputies, the deputy heads, and the secretaries of the committees are elected by list in general without discussion in a plenary session with an open name vote. Therefore, honourable national deputies, prepare themselves. Questions? I'll give you my word. Let's make a decision, I'll give everyone a word by procedure. Let's go to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Each faction per minute. Please sign up. Please, Fatherland faction, Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u24	Thank you. We ask you to make one right in the determination that we are about to make. It refers to the apprehension, where a technical error took place regarding John Grigorovich Kirilenko. According to the factions, he will work at the European Integration Committee, not at sports. So the request is to make a sound before voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u25	Thank you. Roger that. Party of regions, who? No questions? Ukraine's company, Simonenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u26	Simonenko, the faction of the Company. One fingerprint occurred, Vladimir Vasilevich. Levchenko Olga Vladimirovna is enrolled in the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities, Regional Policy. The Company's faction introduced it as a member of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Therefore, I would like to make an adjustment on the basis of this error.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u27	Freedom Union, Glaucus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u28	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Mohnik Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u29	Please, pass it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u30	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, Andrew Mohnik. We support our own decision. And I'd like to note more about the order of the session. That "Freedom" will not continue to allow speeches in Russian that today sound in the hall of Communists and others who ignore the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u31	All those who wanted to speak. Please, Vitaly Faction Strike Call.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u32	Kowalczuk. Volodymyr Vasilovich, Kowalczuk, Faction of Vitalia Klitschka. The 24th Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council. We have a proposal: Gurvitz Eduard Josephovich is a member of the committee, not a deputy head of the committee, but a member of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u33	Gurwitz. Turn the microphone on again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u34	Gurwicz Edward Josephovich is a member of the committee. A member of the committee. Instead of a deputy, a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u35	All of them? There are no more comments. So I put to the vote a draft decree on the list of committees and subjects of their knowledge, the election of the heads of committees, the first deputies, the representatives of heads, secretaries, the members of the committees of the Supreme Council of the seventh vocation and election of the head, the first deputy, the deputy heads, the secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization with observations given by the factions: Kirilenko, Lewchenk and Gurwicz. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:58:54]] For 339 The factions. Region Party – 157, Fatherland – 74, Vitalia Klicka – 28, Freedom Association – 34, Ukraine Company – 31, non-fractional – 15. The decision has been taken, and I congratulate you all. On the basis of the vote. Chewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u36	Well, first of all, I'd like to welcome the newly elected heads, the deputies, the members of the committee. I want to realize myself and really work for the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state. But I would like to draw the attention of all the voters now to what has now taken place. I drew attention to the fact that the opposition, in spite of established parliamentary tradition, was not given the opportunity to run control committees. I would like to remind you that in Parliament's sixth call, committees such as the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Rules of Procedure, the Committee on the Rule of Law have been given opposition, because this, in every assignment, must have logic. It is hard to imagine how, for example, the Committee on Budget Affairs will control the government's budgetary policy. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Parliament of the Seventh Assembly, unfortunately, is starting its work with this very inadequate principle of distribution of work and duties in the Ukrainian Parliament. Most have taken full responsibility for what is happening, and I think that is not the best example for the work of parliament in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u37	Thank you. I would like to remind you once again that we have considered the agreed opinion of all the factions that are in Parliament. "Freedom," a minute. Please. Deputy Schweik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u38	Igor Schwaika, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Society, I'd like to quote a document. "To ensure the exercise of its own function, the opposition must be given the right to representation in Parliament's leadership, as well as the opportunity to lead the parliamentary committees: the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Committee on Budget Issues, the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption and the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation." This document is called "The message on the internal and external status of Ukraine," which is the presidential message for 2012. Please tell me, is this the Party of Regions today speaking out against the 2012 presidential message? It concerns the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Special Monitoring Commission on Privatisation. Yes, our position has been agreed upon, but I ask you to explain why today the Preparatory Commission and the Supreme Council have deviated from the position of the President's letter for 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u39	All factions. I beg you, Grizzenka, a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the proposals are agreed upon, but apparently not read. I was just looking. The National Security and Defence Committee is 15 and the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption is 2. Both contain the same subject of knowledge — the fight against terrorism. That's not right. We need to vote on this change because it's the law. I propose that we leave this to the National Security and Defence Committee, because the BSC is the main subject of this committee's knowledge. Remove it from the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u41	Thank you. I think we're going to have committees, they're going to make an offer. The Fatherland was already on the scene. Dear friends, in accordance with article 13 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Preparatory Parliamentary Group ceases its activities after the committees have been established. That is why I would like to thank the National Deputies, the members of the Preparatory MPs for their work on the organization and holding of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh occasion. Let's thank them for the job. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let go, I see, I'll give you my word, put your hand down, I'll give it to you. Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the issue of the Conciliation Council of the MP factions. In accordance with article 73 of the Rules, the Conciliation Board of Deputies is established as an advisory body for the preparation and consideration of organizational matters of the work of the Supreme Council. The Conciliation Board consists of: The head of the Supreme Council, the first deputy and deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the head of the parliamentary factions with the right to vote and the head of the committees with the right to vote. Since the appointed officials have already been elected, the appointed heads of the deputy factions have thus been established, in accordance with the Rules, a Conciliation Council has been established to begin its work. Just a minute. Ilik, Ilik, National Deputy of Ilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u42	Roman Ilik, Fatherland faction, electoral district 121, Drogbykin. Dear Mr. Head, there has been a grave violation of the Rules, since the two national deputies who have not taken an oath have become members of the committees. I mean the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Customs Policy Committee, yes. Where there are two national deputies of the Tabal who have not taken an oath here in the hall and are traitors not only to their constituents but to the traitors of the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u43	Thank you! Thank you, Your Honor! We have committees, so we'll assign a committee. The committee will consider and make suggestions for the sessions of the Supreme Council. Dear National Deputies, in accordance with article 81, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, we need to consider the issue of the permanent suspension of the powers of individual National Deputies: Kožara Leonid Aleksandrovich, Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Prasolonov Igor Mikolaiovich, Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich. They wrote statements of parliamentary credentials. You know the question doesn't need to be included in the agenda. The relevant drafts of the rulings that I have made to the deputies are given out. So, I'm going to put to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Kojara Leonid Alexanderovich for adoption both on the basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:07:52]] For 230 The factions. Region Party 160, Fatherland 21. Hit Vitalia Calla – 1, Freedom – 0, Company – 30, non-fractional – 18. Decisions and decrees are generally adopted. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich for adoption as a whole. Members, please vote. [[11:08:50]] For 234 I'll take the order. The factions. Region Party - 172, Fatherland - 17, Vitalia Klicka - 0, Freedom - 0, Ukrainian Company - 29, non-fractional - 16. The ruling, in general, has been adopted. Honourable MPs, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Prasololova Igor Mikolaiovich for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[11:09:46]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Deputies! Praslov has already served as minister, so he wrote a statement, asking me to vote back on the matter. I'd like to vote who's in favour of coming back. [[11:10:39]] For 222 Calm down, ladies and gentlemen. The decision is not taken. People's MP Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! Dear colleagues! And I can't understand what we're laughing at here every day, we're talking about the need to follow the Constitution in accordance with the Constitution, a man who works in executive power has no right to be a national deputy and we don't vote. So it turns out that when we're talking about upholding the Constitution in our own interests, it doesn't seem like it's the case that we have to laugh. There is a requirement of the Constitution that we should execute and vote in favour of the termination of the terms of office, let's return to this Hall of Azarov the Elder, let's return Janukovich, who was a deputy before the election. And what will we have in this Supreme Council? It seems to me that when it comes to upholding the Constitution, it must be observed regardless of political relevance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u45	Please, Fatherland, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u46	Vladimir Yavorowski, Fatherland, Troyshina, the city of Kiev. Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I think the Supreme Council today has shown a very strong, consolidated collective mind without voting for the Tobacco. Indeed, a person like Tobacco is more in need of Parliament. He'll do less damage here than he'll do as a minister. That's why it's okay, and don't vote anymore. [[Applause]] Only in the next session. I think it'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u47	Mr. Yavorowski, they voted for Prasolulova, not Tobacco. Listen to me! Chechetov, please. You're kind of in the middle of Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u48	Dear National MPs, National Deputy Lazko is absolutely right: there is the standard of the Constitution, which. [[B in m in s a l in]] who claims that it is impossible to reconcile work in the executive branch with work in the Supreme Council. I would like to return and vote in favour of leaving the mandate of the People's Deputy Prassolov. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u49	A replica of the people's deputy Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u50	I'm talking to a colleague who just thanked me. I have a big request for you: don't thank me, because the more you thank me, the worse it affects my reputation as a politician. You'd better criticize me, not thank me. When you criticize me every day, I'll put a cognac on your bottle every day. As far as the Constitution is concerned, it is obvious that the MP has no right to reconcile another mandate. And I don't think this is a place for discussion. There must be a person appointed to the government who should be appointed as a member of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, let's make you an offer. Are we going to break the Constitution or are we going to work under the Constitution? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Jeremiah’s national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u52	Vladimir Vasilovich, 23th constituency, Jeremeyev Igor Miranovic I believe that it is unacceptable for a national MP to reconcile two positions and I believe that it is necessary to return to this vote for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u53	I shall now put to the vote: return to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because Yavorowski thought we were looking at the Tobacco, and we were looking at Prasulov. I'll bet you a vote: go back to the subject. Members, please vote. [[11:15:38]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, I'm taking that question down. Let's move on. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the draft Order (1009-2) on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Tobacco Dmitry Volodymyrovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] For adoption. for adoption as a basis and as a whole. Please prepare and vote. Vote. [[11:16:34]] For 226 Decision taken. Order approved. The factions. Region Party – 181, "Paternity" – 0, "Klitka Vitalia" – 0, "Freedom" – 0, Ukrainian Company – 30, "Afterfractional" – 15. Dear national deputies, according to the calendar. One minute. On the basis of the vote, the strike faction, Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u54	We demand that we discuss this issue with regard to the Smoker. And we want to say that opposition, and not opposition, but 90 percent of Ukraine and the Ukrainians take this assignment as a slap to Ukraine and the Ukrainians, as President Yanukovic is absolutely ignoring the thinking of those whom he called his people and his constituents. He is increasingly becoming president of the clan, of the clans, and this is not as reverential even as the Party of Regions, as Moscow has insisted on this assignment. The tobacco industry was defined not only as an anti - Ukrainian but also as a part of corruption, it was involved in the destruction of children’s gardens, it was involved in the destruction of Ukrainian literature. This assignment not only polarizes Parliament and society today but also reaffirms the marginalization of the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian President. Well, I'd also like to address Mr. Parliamentary Neophyte, son of Azarov. Your father offers to take the shovels into his hands and not to whine. Give an example: Take the shovel today, and clear it here for example, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-25-m0.u55	Thank you. Let's get this over with. Honourable National Deputies, according to the calendar of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 26 to 28 December 2012, Ukrainian National Deputies work on committees, commissions and factions. In these days, committees need to hold organizational meetings on the creation of subcommittees, the distribution of responsibilities, and so forth. This will allow us to hold committee meetings on January 8th and to consider, first of all, ratification issues, laws returned with proposals by the President of Ukraine, and other urgent issues. Then we'll be able to look at the proposals of the committees on January 9th on the Conciliation Council for the scheduling of the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 10 and 11, 2013. And in conclusion, I want to congratulate everyone on New Year's Eve, Christmas, and wish you all health and success for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] With the festival of all of you! The next plenary session will take place on January 10, 2013. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
