ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:38]] There were 421 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and members of the government are taking part in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome to the Cabinet of Ministers. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary meetings on 15 March 2012. Twenty-four questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 8 laws and 10 regulations were passed, one bill was returned to the committee for further consideration and one bill was rejected for re-reading. As a result of a review of the President’s proposals, one law was passed in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, five laws were rejected. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 229 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, an hour of questions to the Government is held on Friday from 10 to 11 a.m. Representatives of the parliamentary factions and groups at the Conciliation Council agreed that during the "hours of questions to the Government" they would listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the implementation of social tasks and their work. on their financial security, based on the social initiatives proposed by the President of Ukraine, so that the necessary legislative acts can be adopted. It is proposed that the honourable national MPs, such an order be held "hours of questioning to the government." The speech by the Prime Minister of Ukraine is 15-20 minutes. Then move to questions and answers to members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is scheduled to meet with the Prime Minister of Hungary after the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u2	Yeah, take it easy. We have government members who are responsible for one direction or another, and they are competent and will give the right answer. Dear colleagues, please accept this proposal: the Prime Minister's speech, questions to the government and the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u3	I'm asking you to calm down. I invite you to address Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u4	Dear Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, after the announcement by the President of Ukraine of social initiatives, there were many comments about the lack of money, including a printing press and so forth. To answer that question clearly, let us remember what happened two years ago. But remember that the then government not only refused to implement the law on raising state social standards, initiated by the Party of Regions, but also claimed that it was an atomic bomb under Ukraine's economy. So what? Already in April 2010, we decided to increase the subsistence minimum, pay the wage, including in the budget sphere, pensions, all kinds of state social assistance, allowances and other payments. Moreover, this increased payment was made on a previous date, as of 1 January 2010, and the money received from the former authorities compensated the people. Although I have no illusions here, people were expecting more. Because in times of crisis, people became much poorer, they lost their jobs, their wages, their savings ran low. However, that was when people received a significant allowance. Just a few examples: From the second quarter of 2010, the average pension increased compared to the beginning of the year to 104 bracelets. Payments were increased by 10 million pensioners. Since May 2010, a pensioner with a minimum pension was given 133 bracelets more than at the beginning of the year. During 2010, national social standards grew on average by 1.3 - 1.4 times compared to 2010, or by 200 - 245 dollars per month. Similarly, other social benefits have increased. At the same time, the average wage in May 2010 was 285 dollars higher than in January and 350 dollars higher than in the previous year. In 2010, Ukraine’s economy stopped falling and positive developments began. Inflation was much lower than in 2009. The country began to emerge from the crisis. In general, we were able to tackle the challenge of starting a gradual increase in the level of social protection for people and restoring economic growth. Over the course of two years, real gross domestic product increased by about 10 percent, manufacturing by almost 20 percent, freight transport by almost 17 percent, and retail trade by a quarter. In Ukraine, investments, a stable national currency, pensions, child pay, and so on have been increasing regularly for two years. At the same time, we managed to significantly reduce the government budget deficit, almost 5 times compared to 2009 and bring it to an acceptable level. And now I want to ask you. When was the financial and economic situation better? Two years ago, in the spring of 2010, or today, in the spring of 2012? I think that's a rhetorical question. There can be no doubt that a country that is in a much better situation than two years ago can and should solve the challenge of raising the standard of living of people, of restoring social justice. The president offered extensive social initiatives. Many of them are addressed to different categories of citizens — those who are capable of earning a living and those who cannot provide themselves — those with limited opportunities, orphans, and the elderly. So, of course, the new social initiatives announced by the President of Ukraine are logical, expected by society and strategically balanced. First. An important component of social initiatives is the increase in pensions, starting in May of this year, an increase in pensions of almost 9 million pensioners, an average increase of more than 100 dollars per month. From May 1st, there will be an increase to 42 percent of the living minimum for disabled persons, a pension allowance for family members of dead war invalids. Each of them gets an average of more than 120 bracelets per month during May/December. Pension benefits for wartime participants will also increase. About 1.3 million people are raised. Starting on July 1, there will be a gradual increase in pensions for 606,000 military personnel who have been released from military service. Recalculation of the pension of this category was last made in early 2008. These pensions will increase by an average of 165 dollars per month. Since July 2012, low-income pensioners and disabled persons from 80 to 100 per cent will have increased the living minimum to which state social assistance will be allocated. And children in low-income families will be raised from 50 to 75 percent. As a result, the increased amount of assistance will be given to low - income pensioners and disabled persons on average by 168 dollars a month. And for 236,000 children from low-income families, an average of 260 dollars a month. The government plans to increase the payment of this state aid to 100 percent of the subsistence minimum for children from low-income families. We are firmly set up in 2012 to solve the multi-year problem of 283,000 people with special needs and to provide them fully with prosthetics and wheelchairs. We are grateful to the National Deputies for supporting the government's legislation that has introduced a new mechanism for the provision of disabled persons with technical and other means of rehabilitation for individual purchases. Now the disabled will choose the prosthetic or orthopedic services they need. We are immediately starting this work. To all the people with disabilities of war until Victory Day, we'll have paid one-off aid almost twice as much as we did last year. Its size, depending on the disability group, is going to be from 1 000 720 to 2 000 200 dollars. Such a category of our veterans will be constantly cared for and supported by the government. Neither did the disabled closets nor the other people who were affected by the production and the members of their families. As of March of this year, insurance payments will be upgraded to an increase in nominal salaries for employees in the economy. This increase will reach nearly 310,000 people this year. In April these funds will be paid to people. In addition, these payments will begin to be updated over the past few years, bringing about 190,000 people to an additional average of 400 dollars a month. Also among the current problems raised by the President is the question of the new quality of social services. The task is to provide social services as fully as possible to the most vulnerable categories of the population. The key is the early detection of problems and timely relief. That is, it is necessary to rebuild their work so that they do not put out the fire when it has started, but to meet those who need it. To detect and prevent them should become the rule of their work. We are already working on this issue with public organizations and charities. Next question. On my orders, the Ministry of Finance, along with the National Bank, has begun to prepare compensation payments to investors of the former USSR Savings who have not received the promised compensation payment. I did not hide, I criticized the decision of the previous government in early 2008 to pay compensation to investors in the former USSR Savings, because it was then completely economically unnecessary. All the arguments I was making at the time were confirmed. They've disbursed a lot of money that we left them -- about 24 billion dollars. And the country went into crisis completely unprepared. As a result, 6 million people received this compensation and 6 million people did not receive it. Is that fair? I'm sure you don't. I believe that people should trust the authorities regardless of who leads them. So this difficult task is going to be implemented. The injustice that we have not caused will be eliminated. In addition, I set up a clear task for the appropriate managers: everything should be organized clearly, clearly, without queues and collecting help. And special attention is paid to the elderly. It'll be hard to control. Also now, members of the government, along with the National Bank, have started work on the development of the National Housing Mortgage Loan Programme, as proposed by the President of Ukraine, and the mechanisms for its implementation. What I'd like to pay attention to. This initiative is not just important for people who need to improve their living conditions. Because each bracelet of investment in construction has a significant multiplier effect on the economy, since the industry is a consumer of machine-building, metallurgy, chemical and transport industries. And this is the loading of businesses, jobs, and wages. Overall, supporting working citizens, creating conditions for them to have a decent job and a decent salary, is among the key priorities of the head of state. The trend spectrum is extremely wide: from stimulating the increase in jobs, primarily for young people, people of pre-pensive age and rural areas, to new approaches to the formation of a government order to train those professionals who will be needed in the labour market and to introduce vocational training to the integrated professions of people who have lost their jobs. In the absence of time, of course, I cannot inform you of all aspects of the work of the President's social initiatives. Let me just point out that all positions will be reflected in changes to the budget that the government is already preparing. At the beginning of April, we will refer them to the Supreme Council. I want to assure everyone here that the new social initiatives are not mechanically increasing social benefits by increasing budget spending, but primarily eliminating distortions and improving the quality and targeting of social services. The ultimate goal is to move to a more modern, complex model of social security and protection that will create the necessary conditions for improving life prospects and ultimately improving the well-being of families that are now socially vulnerable. This will help to gradually address the problems of social inequality in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u5	Thank you, too. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, listen to me. Prime Minister. Well, I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now. Just a minute. The Prime Minister of Ukraine asked him to meet with the Prime Minister of Hungary after the speech. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! () [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's make a deal. Well, well, well, well, well, () [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Let's make a deal with you. Dear colleagues, we're going to ask you a question now will determine specifically to the Deputy Prime Minister or to the Minister. Are we going to write down the question in general and depending on what the question is going to be addressed to a Deputy Prime Minister? Is such an offer accepted? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, we have 44 minutes left to sign up for a question to the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And especially while the recording is coming up, I'd like a representative of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to inform you about the content of the law relating to the gas transport system. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, listen, I'll tell you what! The Minister is currently negotiating with the Commissioner of the European Union. As soon as he's done, he'll come here. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you calmly. That's what I'm talking about. Since we discussed the issue of withdrawing any warnings during the Conciliation Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will consider an alternative bill, which is written by Yuri Karmazin. And he will only make a decision in part to overcome the monopolies of Naftogazu by dividing it into two so that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to divide it into two structures: which transports gas and which gets gas. This corresponds to the Energy Charter. So I would ask, my dear colleagues, not to block the Supreme Council's rostrum, not to implement these plans, because they fully heeded the proposals that were made, including by the opposition. Now, dear fellows, questions. Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood." Please, Vladimir Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u6	I would like to ask you a question about this pre-election social program of the President that has been announced. Of course, it is, first of all, an autism, but somehow the government will have to extricate itself from this situation. I have a few suggestions for the government on this point. First. To make this program a reality, you have to have a lot of money. They're gone. We owe a lot of money for earlier borrowings, we have nothing to close those holes in the budget today. That is why there is such an offer. First of all, where can you find that kind of money? Would you please increase the wage for your oligarchs to be lower than in the world, eight times the wages for mining fossils, that's the first. You can make $30 billion on that. Approximately 100 billion can be estimated by the enterprises you've engulfed, especially the mining and metallurgical complex, which are at no cost. In particular, joining Mr. Ahmtov in the Illich Boykow combine cost the state a minus 4 billion budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u7	Did you finish the question? Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u8	And the Cyprus we're talking about is just brushing its teeth. So either the First Vice Prime Minister or Tihypco will tell if these sources are going to be used.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u9	Sergei Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u10	From the place,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u11	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the costs that our budget must bear in order to carry out all social initiatives, they will be divided into two parts. In order to implement the mortgage program, about 10 billion are foreseen: 16 billion dollars will be required to carry out all social initiatives. Listen, please, I just said: 10 for the mortgage program and about 16, about 15 for social benefits, total 25. If we look at the sources from where we can get this money, the budget overruns in two months amounted to 2.2 billion this year, overturning the income of the Pension Fund, coming to the Pension Fund -- 1 billion, to other social funds -- 0.3 billion, together 3.5 billion. We predict that by increasing the economy we will be able to increase the income by about 14 billion dollars, this without any legislative decisions. With regard to other sources. Of course, along with the changes to the budget, we're going to have to make a set of laws that will fill the state budget, primarily by redistributing income from the rich to the poor. I'm talking, first of all, about the Law for Riches, about the changes in offshore legislation, including the initiatives that Bondarenko, the National MP, has been talking about, in taxation of beneficial fossils. This is the way the whole world is going, and I think we should do it too. We have confidence that we will find this money. I think if there's any questions about inflation, then we're ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u13	Alexander Lukashuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Kravchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u15	Vasil Kravchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u16	I have a question for Mr. Tihypak. Before the presidential election and Janukovic, you promised to support the Ukrainian village. But thanks to your reforms, namely, the so-called optimization, which is actually the closure of schools, the FAPs, the outpatients in the villages, has led to the disappearance from the map of Ukraine every year, as the head of the agrarian committee said, 17-18 villages, or more. What else are you going to reform in the rural social sphere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u17	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I realize there's always a lot of emotion in the room. I'd like to go to the numbers. The government came and started working two years ago. And I want to point out what's been done, what we've achieved in absolute terms. This includes those living in the Ukrainian village. We have four living minimums. Children under 6 years of age. The increase was from 569 dollars to 915. Plus 60 percent. From 6 to 18 years of age: 713 bracelets to 1141 — 60 percent Workable. From 681 bracelets to 1098 - 61 percent. Unworkable. From 510 to 842 - 65 percent. The minimum wage has increased by 71 percent. Minimum pension is 65. I can go on with this! During this time, prices rose by 23.4 percent. What are some of these initiatives? First of all, we support all the disabled here. We support older people by increasing their pension. There is one remarkable social initiative, I think, when practically every village has a social worker, the so - called social authority, who will have to follow up on the situation in all the families in his area. He's a social worker. So this is how we predict to start practically from May. June. May is already a retirement, a payoff. So we're starting to pay off the regressors, so we're predicting these initiatives, we're seeing that it's going to make a big difference in the way they're looking at social policy and it's going to put everything, really, in order to get ahead of the problem, not beat up by what's called tails.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u19	National MP Marouschenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u20	I'm asking you to tell Kiril Kulikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u21	Kirilo Kulikov, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u22	Thank you. From global to purely specific questions. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Minister, yesterday you commented on the situation surrounding the scandalous blockade on the Landscapes. I want to let you know that the group that was set up to protect the Landscape Street on Facebook, for example, is already made up of thousands of people who are ready not to virtually go out and protect our city. You said that this decision shows that the decision of Kyivrada is legitimate. As a national MP, I want to report that these are particularly valuable land under the Earth Code. And only the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes that decision. I'd like to inform you as a member of the budget committee that there's no money in the budget for this building. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u23	Ask questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u24	. diplomats do their own work: they protect people in Libya, Egypt, and Kiev and construction will be the community of Kiev. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u25	Please, Kost Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u26	Who do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u27	To the Foreign Minister. Kost Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u28	Thank you so much for asking. I would like to point out that, in my comment, I said the following, that everything that was done by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs since 2001, then by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Zlenko, all the subsequent ministers representing the various political forces, was in line with the current legislation, which was the decision of the relevant court. I'd like to point out something else that at the point when all of this started, there were garages in this place that were illegally built, and which in no way created conditions for either of them to rest to Ukrainian citizens and kyans, first of all, or to view it as an improvement in the general forgetfulness of the situation in Kiev as such. I think in this case, we really need to look for a solution that is in the best interest of all parties. But the main element must be the demolition of all those garages that were built in the unknown, which in fact must be demolished, and this area must be completely devoted to the square. Therefore, there is no need to protect ourselves from the Ministry. We need to think about how we can completely turn this place into a legal square that will meet the needs of the sheds. We are not at odds with this goal; we are at odds with those who want to use this theme to advance their own interests. And if it wasn't for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I'm convinced that in 2005-2009 there would be people with large elbows who would have built it and no one would have raised anything about it today. So let us make a positive decision about what is in the interests of the Chinese. That's exactly what we're up to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u29	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer in two minutes. Eugene Volintz, Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Comrade Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u31	Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u32	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro I have a question for Vice Prime Minister Tihyp. Dear Sergey Leonidovich, today the Prime Minister has been enthusiastic about the President's social initiatives, and that is correct. Why, then, did the government, including the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, not have the same lively defense of the Communist faction’s proposals during the 2012 State Budget, which almost coincided with the Presidential initiatives? The second, pensioners, veterans, disabled people, and other vulnerable groups are affected by the arrival of carriers on the road in order to provide legal assistance to the road, and the drivers are directly pushed out, disabled persons, into the street. And the Crucifixion went the other way: it takes off the train routes or it converts it into comfort. Why does not the government and the ministry also protect these types of population? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u33	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! We were planning the 2012 budget, and it was tense enough because we were practically in two years, and in three years we had a budget deficit of 14.8, which we had officially, up to less than 2.5, virtually 2.5, along with Naftogaz Ukraine. You and I have adopted such a budget. Now, once again, we have statistics in two months. And we see that under the budgeted we have an additional 2.2 billion coming, under the Pension Fund is 1 billion. We predict and predict that, given the growth of the economy alone, we're going to go at least 14 billion dollars. And that gives us the opportunity to talk about new social initiatives today. All that's going to come into the budget, all this government is going to point to social moments, because that's true, and in human terms, it's going to be needed by our people, who unfortunately are still living poorly, and on the other hand, it's stimulating the economy, because these people are buying practically everything Ukrainian. So I don't think there's any controversy here. What the Communist faction said about it, now we've got an opportunity, and we've done it. As far as passing aids are concerned. I think there's another problem. The problem is that we can't go into monetaryizing these benefits. Because if you figure out how much a single allowance costs, how much we give to transport companies, it's less than 10 dollars per person. And there's this huge problem. We can't provide compensation to businesses today, they're suffering damage. I think we should increase funding for this social support, and eventually move on to what would be desirable to pay people money anyway. Because in rural areas, let's say a pensioner doesn't use it at all, and a month ago, he doesn't have that kind of money. And there's really not going to be a pensioner in town. Another aspect. It is necessary to deprive those who can provide for this transportation of money and their income. It's going to be a way out, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u35	Alexander Steshenko, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u36	I'd like to give my colleague Victor Vasilovich Taran-Terrena a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u37	Victor Terrence, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u38	Thank you. I have a question for Mr. Tihypak. There is such a serious disease, Alzheimer's. It is a distortion and a loss of memory. So, the current authority is setting up a court over Timoshenko on a 15-year-old case. But today's provisional government of Kerensky, please excuse me, Azarova, it doesn't matter, today's provisional government has completely forgotten about 4.5 million fraudulent trust investors, sometimes talking about those who have lost their savings. But these people have been robbed, and not a word of them, that's 4.5 million people, and the government is probably waiting for these people to die. And that's why it's a very simple question. Is there anything you think you can do for these people, or is it full of people here, not to say another word full of Alzheimer's?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u39	Please, who? Minister of Social Policy?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u40	To Tihypek, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u41	Sergey Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u42	Thank you. I understand it's a big problem. Because, in fact, those who wanted to make more money, who put their money in trust, and eventually lost it, today a lot. But I think it's a little bit different than what we're paying attention to right now, I mean the investors. It's just that we're compensating for savings, maybe someone and economists might have some doubts. But there was a situation, after all the discussions, Timoshenko's government, but there was a problem, half the people got the stakes, half the people didn't. And I think there's a great social injustice right here. So we just want to restore this justice, pay another 6 million people a thousand dollars. If we have additional revenue and additional budget opportunities, I would like to go back, first of all, to compensate and help people who have actually lost their money in trusts and other financial institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u43	National Deputy Cassianuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u45	Alexander Stoyan, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u46	I have a question for Sergei Leonidovich. Sergey Leonidovich, a year ago after the parliamentary savings hearings, we set up an all-U.S. task force to monitor the return of savings. I'm leading her. During the days, this working group met, and we had three very basic questions. First question. Sergey Leonidovich, who's going to lead the task force on the rescue mechanism? And I'd like representatives of our working group from all over the country to go in there, because that's a very principled question. The second question. For two years, our government has not paid 500 dollars to families whose investors have died. Sergey Leonidovich, 6 million is good, we have to go back. But there is still a budget of 500 bracelets for families to return to those who have died from investors. Question three. It turns out, Sergio Leonidovich, that there is no investor register to this day. So we don't know how many deposits, what amounts, how this question is going to go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u47	Finish the question. Do you have everyone? Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u48	We worked with the National Bank. And the fact that it's already decided that the head of the National Bank is practically leading this task force. These discussions clearly stated that there are a full register of investors. And if there isn't, then I'm convinced that the whole time we're paying our deposits, we have to work on getting those people who were lost today for some reason after their registration so that they can go to the appropriate commission to recognize their rights. As far as the dead investors are concerned. I also believe that these were obligations of the State to them. They must go absolutely to their offspring. And the corresponding money is provided in the form of 300 million, the Ministry of Finance tells me exactly for this category of Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u49	Fomin, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u50	Alexander Fomin. Please pass the word to your colleague Schlemku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u51	Dmitry helmet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u52	I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Tihypak. Mr. Vice-Prime Minister, the so-called social initiatives of Yanukovic in the electoral run-up to the Supreme Council are evidence of a catastrophic decline in the rating of the Party of Regions and the President of Ukraine. All normal - minded people realize that this is not even the populism that the present parliamentary majority has so strongly spoken of, but a bribe to the electorate. I have a question. First. You think the Ukrainian people are a wise people or you think they're not, because you can catch them again, as you did in 2004, for such a bribe. And the second. In your Social and Economic Development Programme, Ukraine has a share of the poor, I stress again, the proportion of the poor in 2010 is 24.1 percent, and in 2012 26.2 percent is planned. One day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u53	Please, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u54	You know, we're very, very excited about the election, we're excited about the election. And maybe for someone, 103 bracelets on average, the growth that Ukrainian pensioners are going to see is a bribe, you can laugh about it. But I want to remind you, 7.5 million Ukrainian pensioners get a pension of less than 1,000 dollars. And for them, every 10 dollars is a big help. There's talk of 103 bracelets on the average, someone's going to have more. This time. Secondly, if we have all this big political technology, then why do we start these payments in May, in a month, practically, when some of our pensioners might forget about it. No, the logic here is that we've had a financial opportunity, we've seen a dynamic for two months, and we're starting to think that we're solving social issues right now. This time. Secondly, if someone wants to accuse the government that we didn't do anything before, I told you, we have all the social benefits, I can continue them, they've all increased by at least 60 percent, with prices rising by 23.4 percent. That's why we have a consistent, intelligent social policy. Thank you. As for the Ukrainian people, he is certainly wise. And I think he's going to sit down and count and make his own conclusions in the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u55	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Questions to Sergio Leonidovich. Among the wise people is the part that is now in opposition. The efforts of today's coalition of political failures, and now the anti-national opposition to discredit the President's social initiatives, have, in my opinion, a clear, transparent and cynical motivation. But it is unacceptable not to support or promote these initiatives for any politician. Sergey Leonidovich, please tell me to increase the targeting and effectiveness of social assistance measures, you have already said that, the Social Inspectors Institute will be set up. If possible, briefly, and when will this process be completed? And the second is the payment of savings. Please tell me that the savings at Timoshenko were turned into an act, people were dying in queues, people couldn't wait. Will jobs be created in savings now so that the process is normally civilized as the previous ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u57	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you for asking. You know, really, if you look at what social policy in European countries is different from what we have built in these years, there is a fundamental difference. What's the point? The whole of Europe is working to advance the problem, the whole of Europe is working with the family, not the orphans. And all of Europe makes sure that the child stays in Europe. The whole of Europe works in such a way that the family does not put a mentally ill child on the Internet, and then the state does not look after him on the Internet, but creates temporary day-care centers when Mom brings the child to boarding school, gives him away, and in the evening, she takes him home from work and brings him home. Without building a system of social workers all over the country, 300, 400, we're looking at how many families we're going to have in villages and cities, we're not going to be able to do that. Because this person should know the situation in each family practically. What these social workers should be trying to do, I wouldn't talk about inspection, first of all at the local level, are people who are going to protect the rights of the child and help those who can't serve themselves anymore are single pensioners. These are two social groups of people to whom we will direct our first efforts. We don't want to increase the state much, and we predict that we're going to retrain and respecialize some of the social workers. And that's why I think that's going to produce a very good result in its own time. Including, I am convinced that it will be economically advantageous for the state. Thank you. As far as the queues are concerned. You know, I think it's really a very important question. Even with a list of all the investors, still 6 million people serve quality service, it's difficult enough in a short time. We're working on doing this technologically. We'll make sure there's no line. Can we make it? I think we're gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u59	People's deputy of Pudov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u60	Please give the floor to the leader of the faction of the People’s Deputy, Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u61	Andrew Kozemykin, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u62	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I'd like to take this opportunity to ask you a question and ask you now, please. And also to contact Mr. Lavrinovich, who is here in the rostrum, who runs the penitentiary service. At this point in time, there is a violation of the law and there is a crime under articles 364 of "The Abuse of Power" and 365 of "The Excess of Power." The point is that the authorities again came up with provocations in the Cachania Colony. She has launched 30 journalists just in the territory of the colony, but the deputies who are at the gate are standing and not missing. It's a violation of the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, you know, and the Law on the Criminal Enforcement Code what violates this code. So I'd like to involve you in this process and protect the MPs, or we'll react adequately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u63	Alexander Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you that the Ministry of Justice does not run a penitentiary service operationally, so, of course, it does not have the right to decide on the conduct of the education, the cancellation, but rather the policy of ensuring the standards of the service. As far as law enforcement is concerned, I think you know that the Ukrainian national deputy has the right to enter state premises, but there are restrictions that are provided for by other laws, there are objects to which special leave is granted. And, of course, in this case, it's going to have to be governed by special laws, and you can't say that a national MP is a person who can enter any place in the state, even if it has a separate visiting regime. So I think that in this case we need to be clear about what territory, what purpose, why, and the order that is defined by the laws of Ukraine must be kept absolutely firmly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u65	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u66	It's a shame Mr. Secretary probably won't be able to back out after last night's defeat. But he doesn't know the Criminal Code, which he writes. This is meant to mean that there is an article that clearly indicates that a national MP is entitled to his status and the right to be present even in the territory of correctional colonies. So please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, you don't have to lie and lie here. Please, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I just called Pshonce, the Attorney General, who oversees the observance of the laws of this service, he's not answering, he's hiding. Mr. Turin, Attorney General of Kharkiv County, is hiding. Please respond again, because the faction will decide to respond adequately to these events, to the violation of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u67	Thank you. Let's do it this way. I will ask Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk to contact the management of the penitentiary system, to find out all the circumstances, please give the names of the national deputies who are there, including the Attorney General’s Office, and then inform the Supreme Council. Well, I'm asking you, let's find out now. Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u68	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Of course, I think those who read the laws and the Penal Enforcement Code, including, know that the area of correctional institutions has many components and in different modes of admission to different premises and different territories. And I don't think there's any need to speculate that going into the administration is one order, and the people's MP can do that, and there are completely different regimes in the territory and in the premises where there are people serving the punishment. So please, I would also ask you not to speculate on the rules of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is how we agreed. I'm asking you to do it now. He's just fixing what needs to be done. And I would also ask the minister of justice to contact the relevant services, which area the protected areas are talking about, so that we don’t have any misunderstandings on this issue. Please. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, my question to Mr. Zacharychenk. The whole country was horrified to learn that after one night of the crime, rapes and murderers in Santa Claus were released from the police station, while colleagues correctly pointed out that half the country was sitting for absolutely nothing. I want to know the names of the people who released these rapists, and whether these militants will be punished, what punishment, whose direction they were released. The second was a question to Mrs. Richter, she went out, then to Mr. Tihypco. After all, what's going on with medical reform? Why do we have a mass hospital closing today? In Chercas, maternity home No. 2 was closed and women were indignant about it. And the third question to Mr. Horoshkowski. The media reported that the government would have a special such coordinating body on the issue of European integration under the auspices of the First Vice - Prime Minister. Such an organ actually worked in all the governments of those countries that entered the European Union as a coordinating body. When it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u71	The health issue is the closure of medical institutions. Who will inform? Sergei Leonidovich? I beg you, fellow believers, then you will find out all the circumstances. There is. First Deputy Minister. Please give me the microphone. And then Valery Ivanovich Horoshkovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u72	Thank you for asking. With regard to the maternity home and the restructuring of the medical facilities. To date, this is about the reform that is being carried out. In accordance with the current legislation and the Constitution, there is an order of merger of medical facilities. Hospitals are in no way being eliminated, i.e. this is a substantial resource economy and an effective use of limited public funds. With regard to the medical staff who provide the process, it remains in service or, in a mandatory manner, the unit that disappears is employed. As for the direct maternity home No.2 Cherkas, this idea has been working for almost the last 8 years, and they have worked on the idea of uniting maternity homes in order to create a powerful perinatal service. And today the question that people will not have jobs is not at all. For today, everyone. You'll find a complete understanding today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u73	Valerius Ivanovich, please, for the creation of a focal point for European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u74	To date, a department in the Cabinet of Ministers has been established. It's increased by 13 to 30 people, and this department is under my command, including headship. Because under me, because it's through the secretariat that it's going to be dealing with these issues -- the coordination of Euro-integration from all issues, technical assistance, visa-free regime, inclusive free trade and so on and so on. What about the creation of a separate body, so far this decision has not been made, first of all, out of purpose. Because, of course, coordination involves coordination between ministries and departments. And the individual body will have less authority than the structure created in the Secretariat under the leadership of the First Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to this one moment that we have here a draft decision on referrals to both the Cabinet of Ministers and the President, and international European structures on how to organize our effective work on the implementation of Ukraine's Euro-integration plans. I would ask the appropriate committee to process it so that next week we can adopt a consolidated position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What question was not answered? Minister of Internal Affairs, please ask me a question, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really a question, and today it has gained such an emphasis in society, and we have already answered that question to journalists, and I will answer that question to you and to you in Santa. It is difficult to name these people for what they have done. When the police reported this horrendous crime, the police found them very quickly, in fact, on the hot trails of all three participants in the incident. One of them was immediately detained, and this person, according to the evidence that you were to understand how this crime was happening, was actually happening in the apartment, and there were no witnesses to this crime at all. They were three: three young men and a girl who had been raped and then decided that one of them had taken over all of this and said that he had done it himself. And when it came out loud, I sent my experts from the central investigation office to help investigate the case. Now we're taking this case through the Attorney General's Office, and we've decided to take the matter back into our own hands in order to objectively, comprehensively, fully understand it, and the culprits will be punished. Now all three of them were arrested and arrested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u77	Velizhansky, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u78	Please pass on the word to Andrew Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u79	Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u80	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the point is, I want to stress it again. What's happening right now under the Kachanov Colony is another fact of proof that there is a totalitarian regime in Ukraine, you know? And when the Minister of Justice is with everyone -- with the Supreme Council, with the journalists -- he's telling the lie because I read to you article 24 of the Penal Code: "Visiting institutions for the execution of sentences. may be authorized, Minister of Justice, members of the European Committee, Head of the Council of Ministers and National Deputies of Ukraine without special permission." It is good that they have given special permission for journalists to go there today. We support this, and more than that, if journalists see this truth, all the truth about these colonies, maybe they'll be better off there. in better conditions, these people. But once again, it's a crime, and we want answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u81	On my part, I, the honourable colleagues, ordered a conversation with the chief of the penitentiary service, and now the first deputy head of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, is in contact with and with the Attorney General’s Office. And then we'll give you information. Yuri Gnatkevitch, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u82	I may have a question about Tihyp. Sergei Leonidovich and the President and the Prime Minister, well, and to some extent, you and the previous government are complaining of non-payment. Well, the budget. The funds of the stolen savings, well, wrong or unwilling to tell why it was stopped. You remember that the actions were foreseen, and their payment was foreseen at the expense of the budget, the planned privatisation. And it was the intentional privatization of the Semenyuk Foundation head and the faction of the Party of Regions. I remember those words, "not for eating," said money, "and for development"? So I have a question: Will this money be paid for? And will it be paid to eat now at the expense of privatization if it's being done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u83	Thank you for asking. You know to me that the whole system of power should be built in such a way that if those in power, who are the President, who is the Prime Minister, should not turn to the opposition faction, what prevents them. It's not understood, and it's totally not normal. If there is no majority, the government should resign and not take up the work that it is practically unable to do without Parliament. What happened to us and what led to the social consequences of disaster. That's why we don't blame, we find out the fact, and I say it's socially unfair, it's paying off one, it's not paying off the other. And the question here is not political, I think it's a perfectly normal social issue we're going to do it, we're going to do it. Eating, you know, you've approved the budget, it's accepted, no article can be broken, virtually all the articles are protected, we have to do 100 percent. All about social issues are protected articles, so we'll do them, and here I have no doubt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u84	Oleg Easy, non-faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow Ukrainians! I have to say that the present government of Ukraine is governed by a man who is afraid to answer the questions of opposition MPs who are running away from awkward questions, I mean Mikola Janović Azarov. So, Mr. Prime Minister, I call you as the opposition national deputy, as the leader of the Radical Party for the debate, so that you will not be able to touch people's ears and run away from questions, but to answer clearly the questions that millions of people are concerned about. In particular, you asked a rhetorical question from the rostrum of Parliament, in your opinion, when the situation was better -- two years ago or today. For millions of people, it's obvious that for you today the situation is better: you have 40,000 pensions, you have 20,000 salaries, you're in full state custody, that is, you're doing well. But is it good for doctors, such as Cherkas ’ maternity home No. 2, which is closed?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u87	Is it good for the Lysican NPP workers, 5,000 people are out of work because the NPPs have been shut down in Lysicánsk? Is it good for peasants who do not take bracelets for a letter of milk for a year and a half? That's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u88	Thank you. You tell me where and when the debate will be so I can pass it on to the Prime Minister. Dear national MPs, dear colleagues, let's do this, because the time we're running out requires one minute of the minister of justice, then the representative of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, one minute, and we'll finish. Please, Alexander Lavrinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u89	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies, according to the question that was raised, I immediately became involved with the acting director of the penitentiary service, who reported that the three national deputies who had arrived at the Kachanov colony were unhinderedly admitted to the territory and are now in the administrative corps, and the situation was revealed in how they wanted to see the territory. That's what he informed me about. The question of visiting other zones is, of course, not discussed in this case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u90	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u91	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I am very sorry that you, as a former colleague of ours, continue to misbehave and lie. There are not three deputies, but ten deputies. So after I raised that question here in the hall, they got scared and let three deputies go. But there are seven other deputies under the colony walls. So why didn't those deputies miss it? Again, your information, your answer was false, you're lying, because there are ten deputies. Three were missed, taking advantage of their medical skills. These are our deputies. Others have been put under ban, six of our women's national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u92	Yes, I am requesting a representative from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy in connection with the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine for the purpose of reforming the oil and gas complex. Please, just for a little while.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u93	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear National Deputies! I would like to stress once again that the main objective of this bill is to fulfil Ukraine's obligations to improve, to adapt Ukrainian energy legislation to the energy legislation of the European Union. These commitments resulted from Ukraine’s accession to the Energy Partnership Treaty, which was ratified by the Supreme Council last year. And this treaty provides for, inter alia, the reform of the Naftogazu NAC in Ukraine to ensure that the transport, distribution and manufacturing function of the company is allocated and that non-profile assets are taken away. To this day, legislation does not allow such steps to be taken. And today we have some problems. We have actually stalled the first pilot project to modernize Ukraine's gas transport system, to modernize the Urengoy-Pomari-Uzhgrad pipeline, which envisioned the involvement of European financial institutions. I can refer to Mr. Mirov's letter to the President of the European Bank and some others who insist that until there is reform in the oil and gas complex, such funding will not be available. Today, we analyzed the situation. We have examined very carefully the draft bill prepared by People's Deputy Karmazin, and we believe that today the adoption of this bill may be the first step in the implementation of reforms in the oil and gas sector. Therefore, the Ministry and Government support Mr. Carmazin's proposal to adopt a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure that the oil and gas complex is reformed in the context of Mr. Carmazin's editorial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the information is clear. Ladies and gentlemen, the hour of questions to the government is over. It is obvious that if such a practice is acceptable, it would be wise for us to think about it and conduct such a dialogue so that questions from the deputies can be answered directly. Because when we first ask written questions, then the answers turn into formality. Living communication gives much more than written questions. I thank the members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." Dear national MPs, recess, huh? Ladies and gentlemen, may we say, 230 questions I would like to make, and then I would take a break. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the BUT faction, "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" requires a recess for consultations and statements. At the same time, I made an offer to announce the parliamentary questions first, since they were 230 and then to announce the break. In accordance with the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, honourable national deputies have been duly formulated by the Ukrainian national deputies. Olega Lalashka to the President of Ukraine for returning money for their milk and meat. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:11:42]] For-54 Request not supported. Sergei Vlasenka to the President of Ukraine for the implementation by the President of Ukraine of paragraph 3 of the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of the Council of Europe in part of the release of Ukrainian political prisoners, Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka. I'll put it to a vote to support the request. [[11:12:14]] For-126 Request not supported. Oleg Tishchenka to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the delay in the organization of compliance by the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the requirements of the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Alexander Kemenyash to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for clarification on the possible failure to comply with the laws of Ukraine in the legislative process. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the systematic illegal restriction or prohibition of the movement of means of transport on the streets of Kiev. [[The digger, the Potchuck, and the others. Total 15 deputies]] Andrija Pinchuk's responsibility to the head of the Court of Auditors for carrying out a nonplanned audit of the efficiency of the use of funds allocated to the maintenance of the National Museum of National Architecture and Housing for the period 2008-2010. Vladimir Yavorowski to the executive responsibility of the head of the Court of Auditors, the Attorney General for the examination of gross violations of Ukrainian legislation, corruption and the theft of state funds by the head of the State Forest Resources Agency, Victor Sietz, who not only causes damage to the state but also disgraces it. Anatoly of Matvienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the harassment organized by Peter Tolacko of the administration and scientists of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska for the high professional celebration of the millennium of Sofia Kyivska according to the decree of the President of Ukraine and the decision of UNESCO. Ally Alexandrovsky to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support for the state science and manufacturing company "Circony". Valeria Baranov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the facts of the violation of legislation concerning VAT compensation to the Society with limited liability "Metyza Trade House" of Zaporozhye. Valeria Calchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the reconstruction of the Kirovograd Academy of Ukrainian Music and Dramatic Theatre called Kropivinski. Vadima Grivkovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reconstruction of water treatment facilities and water supply networks in the town of Mostyska Lviv region. Andrija School to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the initiation of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine by Dmitr Tobacco, a reduction in the number of lessons in Ukrainian language and history in the school program. Valerija Beviz to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of effective measures to ensure adequate funding for specialized training combinations in Winnitsky, Donetsk, Zaporzik, Kirovograd, Odesski, Poltavski, Hersonski, Hmelnicki and Chernigów areas, which are preparing labour personnel for the agro-industry complex of the State. Vassil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the non-replacement of the private enterprise Agropodservis-Plus of the bird farm complex in the village of Velika Hodakkov of the Kozov district of Ternopil district. Vasil Kravchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the function of a regional bone-tuberculosis sanatorium in the village of Old Ostropyl Starocostinian district of the Hmelni district. Vasila Petíkovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation of measures taken to eliminate the consequences of an extraordinary situation in the village of the city-type Solotvino Tachiv district of Zacarpathia. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Tax Service, the Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the Head of the Kirovgrad District Council on the mandatory payment of 150 inhabitants of the Kirovograd District, who work at the utility of the Lightwater City Water Channel, the debt of wages of over 850,000 dollars and the liability of the guilty persons who have allowed their constitutional rights to be violated. Igor Golovchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the environmental disaster in the Mikolai region. Victor Matchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the purchase of light cars by the Attorney-General of Ukraine for more than 3.5 million dollars. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the annulment of the decision of the Montenegrin City Council on 16 December 2011 No. 349 on the increase in the tariffs for maintenance services for buildings and buildings and instigating areas. Victor Olijnik to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the non-admission of the closure of the Novovolinska Mines No. 1 and Novolinska State Enterprise No. 9 Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the Head of the Kirovograd District Council on the illegal operation of the Nadra Kirovgradska Municipal Enterprise, which has allowed violations of Ukrainian legislation that regulates the payment of wages, resulting in over one and a half million debts to the company today. Irina Belausova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the functioning of the National Architectural and Historical Reserve of Chernigs Ancient. Vladimir Makienko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to stop the systematic theft of personal property in severely ill patients in hospitals. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the recalculation and reimbursement of overpayments to residents of the Chernigiv region, who paid in 2011 for electricity consumed at the expense of Pat "Chernihiwoblanergo" through the post office of the Chernigiv Directorate of Krašta. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the aims of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitry Tobacco, to reduce the number of lessons in Ukrainian language and literature in 5-9 classes and to cancel the subject "Ukrainian History" and thus deprive Ukrainian children of their national memory. Viacheslava Kirilenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing the number of lessons in Ukrainian language and literature and in the history of Ukraine in secondary school and on the requirement to initiate the immediate release of Dmitri Tobacco from the post of Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for anti-education and anti-Ukraine activities. Viacheslav Koval to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for a legislative definition of the status of displaced Ukrainians from Poland in 1944-1946 and 1948-1951. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, for the lifting of the Ministry of Education and Science's command of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine from September 10, 2009, "On the implementation of the principles of gender equality in education", whose gender approaches impose immoral transsexualism and homosexuality on young Ukrainians. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine for the Protection of Labour and Constitutional Rights of Workers of the Kyiv factory of the Champagne Wines Capital, the possible violation of the current legislation of Ukraine by officials of this enterprise, the verification of the legality of the expert assessment and the sale of a large wine producer of non-resident Ukraine. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure or re-profile of the Goldenfooting District Municipal Hospital of the Butchik district of Ternopil. Gennady Zadirka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the immediate use of measures to address the situation in the Ukrainian steel pipe market, on the sale and export of used pipes under brand new, causing enormous damage to Ukraine's budget and undermining its authority in the world arena as one of the best steel pipe manufacturers. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to bring housing and utility tariffs in the regions of Ukraine to an economically-based level. Igora Sharov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for full financing of the construction and reconstruction of central water supply and water supply systems in the Kirovograd region, with the aim of improving the health and environmental situation and providing quality drinking water to the region. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the abuse of office as head of the State Intellectual Property Service by Mikola Palady. Irina Belousov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of the town of Bobrovitsa in the State Objective Programme for the socio-economic development of small cities for 2011-2015. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for financing the construction of a preschool facility, a nursery in the village of Musicowka in the Herson region. Leonidas Grač to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the theft of funds allocated for the repair of the Chekov House in Yalta of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and the need to take urgent measures to restore and preserve it. Marina Perestenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the construction of residential buildings in the rural area of Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the construction of the Žitomir district cancer dispenser. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prevention of negative effects on birth, motherhood and higher education at the station as a result of individual money in the social protection system. Mikoli Derkac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Housing Rights Act and to finance the transfer of housing to local communities. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the immediate return of money to Ukrainian peasants for their milk and meat. Oleg Tishchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an improper examination of the MP's request to provide information on the reasons for the Authority's inaction to cancel the gas contracts, which were recognised by the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the courts as unfavourable and unlawful for Ukraine and to attract officials who, in this case, are accomplices to the crime that incriminates Yulia Timoshenko, to the responsibility foreseen by Ukraine's current legislation. Alexander Vasiliev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the construction of large-scale apartment buildings in the cities of Selidové and the Donetsk Region. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of State for the Extraordinary Situations of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Head of the Chief Executive Office for the Emergency Situations of the Executive Body of the Kiev City Council on the Unsatisfactory Status of Hydrotechnical Facilities on Dniper, including the Dams of Kiev GES, and the Threat of Drowning the Right, Dniprovski, Obolonian and Pecheri Districts of Kiev. [[Kiev City Administration]] Paul Mouchcana to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on anti-Ukraine teaching programmes, which provide for shortening the study of Ukrainian history, Ukrainian language and literature in secondary school. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the improper work of detecting and calculating unique documentary monuments by the Ukrainian State Archives. Alexander Shepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for a review of the program for the construction of small hydroelectric power plants on the Karpata Mountains. Alexander Schepeleva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts from salaries to teachers and health workers in the city of Lucca. The Group of Greenewetsks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of State acts certifying ownership of land. Alexander Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Kiev City Government Administration, the Head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, the Head of the right-wing District Authority in Kiev, the State Administration for the attack on the employees of the "Levia" market by the district and city authorities of Kiev. Sergey Tereshuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the assignment of the honorary title "Mother of Hero" Fedosija Fedorchuk, residents of Rizine Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region. Tarasa Steckova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for bringing the Rectors of Higher Education Institutions to disciplinary responsibility in accordance with the orders of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco since 3 March 2012. Julius Kovalvoy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Luhansk District Administration, the Head of the Lugansk District Council, on the non-use by law enforcement and control authorities of the measures aimed at attracting the criminal and administrative responsibility of the natural person who is the entrepreneur of the Province of Pristina for the commission of illegal activities in the course of economic activity. Jury Crook to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to save the Ukrainian Danube Seafaring, the city of Ishmael Odessa. Mikoli Sherschun to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the construction of the premises of the boarding sports licence in the Brezniv district of Ravensk. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of environmental and social catastrophe from the construction of mini-GES in Zakarpatska, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lvivsky and Chernivsky areas. [[Kossov, Davyuk and others]] Julius Kovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the need to carry out an objective and complete audit of the information that indicates the systematic illegal activity of officials of the private enterprise "Niva Production and Commercial Company", and the use of measures to attract the criminal and administrative responsibility of the director of this enterprise, Nalik Avozbu, and his deputy, Vasil Bondarenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to regulate the price of milk produced in the personal support farms of the Ukrainian population and to protect farmers from the unscrupulous actions of dairy producers who receive income from the work of peasants. [[Gordijenko, Danilenko and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the discreditation of the Presidential Order of Ukraine by Peter Toloczko, the Supervisory Board of the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska, the corruption and deliberate destruction of the Commander. [[Grigorovich, Kulczynski and others]] Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv District Administration, the Head of the Lviv District Council on the verification of the abuse of power, corruption, illegal land allocation by the head of the Eastern Rural Council of the Lviv Region, violation of the Council's regulations, lobbying of the interests of the "Government", unlawfully granting him permission to prepare documents to obtain special permission for the geological exploration and extraction of the mineral waters of the Eastern Fertility, the use of measures to halt the corruption of Ivan Pilak's activities, the imposition of a protest for the decision of the Eastern Village for the granting of permits for the preparation of these documents. Vladimir Filenka and Yuri Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor General of Ukraine for the criminalization of the head of the Gmerin district government administration for failing to comply with the legal requirements of the National Deputy of Ukraine and the Prosecutor-General of the Vinnitsk Region concerning the illegal allocation of land for the construction of a garbage treatment plant, resulting in a grave violation of the constitutional rights of the inhabitants of the villages of Ludavka, Kurilivtsi, Počapinski, Novoselica and Vasilivka of the Vinnicki district, the illegal possession of the territorial communities and Ukrainian people, the destruction of a large part of the forest and the creation of an ecologically hazardous environment in the region. Groups of National Deputies to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for a re-examination of appeals regarding the promotion of the Public Shareholder Society "The Scientific and Technical Complex "Electronic Devices" of its founder, Igor Jastrebov. [[Zablock, Maruszczenka, Cibenka and others]] Vladimir Litvina to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the need to resolve the housing issue of the inhabitants of the city of Odessa. Paul Ugrunyan to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, on the need for urgent measures to prevent attacks by Romanian pirates on Ukrainian vessels on the Danube River. Mikoli Shershun to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the trains "Krasne-Zdolbonov" and "Zdolbonov-Krasne". Caterina Vashuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on granting the right to a pension at the age of retirement to men who worked with premiers and operators, through the introduction of corresponding additions to Schedule No.2 of Productions, Jobs, Occupations, Employment, which grants the right to a pension at the age of retirement. [[machine-cheating operators]] Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the provision of the healing process and the provision of a hearing and speech centre for Sug. Sergey Shevchuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine is Ukraine's Minister of Health for the free allocation of medicines for children with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Mikli Kravchenka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the verification of the use of state financial support funds allocated to Topaz State Stock Exchange to pay off the debt from salary payments. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Fund of State Property of Ukraine, on the need to examine the appeal of veterans in the field of aviation for the assignment of the company "The Scientific and Technical Complex "Electronic Devices" the name of its founder, the main designer of Igor Yastrebov. [[Bondica, Plotnikova, Popescu]] Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Commission to the President of Ukraine on citizenship issues to confirm the acquisition by Dmitr Salamatin of Ukrainian citizenship. [[Scybinetsky, Petruka, Steckova]] Jurija Polunieva to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for 2 million dollars in damages caused by the State-owned Resource Company by the liquidator of the ARMA Bank. Oleg Zarubinsky to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the explanation of the motives and reasons for the personal information banks' disposal from participants in Ukrainian payroll projects. Vasil Spak to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Corporate Conspiracy to Buy Milk in Farmers and Animal Farms. Jury Lithuania to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on the regulation of purchase prices for milk from the population in the Hmelnitsk Region. Jury Odarchenka to the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine on the refusal to refer an administrative case to the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the adoption of a procedural decision by a person who is not a judge. Peter Simonnck to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of information on the grounds for Ukraine's failure to support the UN General Assembly resolution on the Elimination of Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, adopted in December 2011. Anatoly of Seminoga to the Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Smiley City Head on extremely high rates of residential services in the city of Smila Cherkas region. Victor Sinchenk to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine on the transfer to the municipal property of the territorial community of the Bila Church of Kyiv district of the construction and the liberated buildings of the open military city No.50 of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Ukrainian minister of culture for providing full information on the preparation of a project to co-nomify the temples of the three countries on the UNESCO World Heritage List and to prevent the use of State policy in the area of protection of cultural heritage for political purposes. [[Russia, Belarus, Ukraine]] Jaroslav Suhhogo to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at preventing bribery in Ukraine’s Higher Education Institutions. Mikoli Derka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine for the selection of a school bus for the transport of students in the No. 1 city of Ternovka Dnipropetrovsk district. Valerija Baranova to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the provision of assistance to the Azov Regional Institute of Government of the Zaporozhye National Technical University for the payment of arrears from wages. Anatoly of Matvienka to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine to provide information on guarantees of preservation from the destruction of Taras Shevchenk's high school in Kiev through the construction under her windows. Vasila Amazing to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the allocation of computer, biological, and multimedia systems to the general schools of Kosovo, the Highlands, and the region of Svetienne. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the protection of citizens’ rights against the harmful effects of noise and recreation. Elina Shishkina to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the prosecutor of Kiev, for the inappropriate response to parliamentary appeals in connection with the attack on the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Ushinsky. Alexander Vasiliev to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for clarification on the possibilities and procedures for the return of abandoned housing assets to the municipal property of the local community. Igora Ribakov to Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine on Buying Prices for Milk. Peter Cibenk to the finance minister of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for an additional one - million - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - one - ninety - three bracelets to complete the work in 2012 on the capital repair of the Pushkin street in the city of Rziszów in the Kyiv region. Sergey Tereshuka to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the provision of housing funds to Constantine Olijnik, a resident of Mankowka District. Vadim Grivkovsky, head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service, on the verification of tax evasion by a citizen of Ukraine and possible illegal activities affecting the State. Jury Odarchenka to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the attempted attempts of the Ukrainian Regional Pension Funds to review the final judgements and collect money from the "children of war" previously paid to them. Sergei Vlasenka to the head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine on systematic gross violations by the leadership of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine and the Kachanov Correctional Colony No. 54 guaranteed by the law of political prisoner Yulia Timoshenko. Vasila Wondernova to head the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources for Unwarranted Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Procedural Development in the area of territorial formation and the establishment of the boundaries of the rural councils and the populated areas of the Upper and Kosovo regions of the region of Ivano-Frankov. Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the Revitalization of the Search for the Head of Government of the Open Stock Exchange Association of Naftogazravljanje Oleg Seminski, who disappeared untraceablely on the way home from work on February 3, 2012. [[Beavz, Gordijenko, Lechchenko]] Andrija Paruba to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of claims to impede the legitimate professional activities of journalists of channel "1+1" and online edition "Dumska". N.T.'s in Odessa City. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the legality of actions, on the involvement of law enforcement officials in the city of Mikolayeva and on the personal control of the criminal investigation of the rape and attempted murder of Oksana Makar. Vladimir Danilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the use of appropriate measures to expedite the investigation of a criminal case violated by the Chief Investigative Office of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the Commercial Bank of Vladimir and the withdrawal of a decision prohibiting the issuance of deposits to ensure that 11,000 investors, most of them pensioners and disabled persons, receive their funds. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the immediate cessation of the intimidation of the family of the Ukrainian national deputy, Ivan Denkovic, and the use of measures to protect her. [[The Chapel, the Stone, and others]] Jury Karmazin to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the immediate examination of the illegal destruction of valuable green plants and the construction of the Lustdorf children's sanatorium in Odessa and the Shakhtar sanatorium in Alubka of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the commission of criminal offences provided for in articles 364, 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine during the issuance of orders to give ownership to citizens of the area of the sanatorium, the use of appropriate response measures and the involvement of guilty persons in the established legal responsibility. Sergia Košin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the complaint of a citizen named Viktor Shabanov regarding the violation of Ukrainian legislation by law enforcement officials during the criminal investigation. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the necessary measures and personal control for the objective and impartial investigation of the brutal crime committed against the citizen of Mikolayeva Oksana Makar and for the protection of her constitutional rights. Mikoli Rudchenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine on the violation of land legislation by landowners of the State Enterprise Scientific Research "Ukraine" of the State Agro-Hecological University and the need to review lease agreements for the benefit of the Grandbossian rural community of the region of Czernykhiv. Valentina Matvieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gross violation by the City Council of the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945, on the approval of measures on the occasion of the undeclared valid legislation of the Day of Remembrance of the Dead in World War II, not Victory Day 9 of May, as a national holiday. Vasil Blacky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration regarding the illegal alienation of the land of a citizen of the Malika Makarov region by the regime of the Kyiv region. [[pears]] Andrija School to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the removal of a collection of hutzulian antiquities from the ART-11 Gallery in Lviv as an executive service in the Lviv region. Valentina Matvijeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the violation of property rights in the village of Ivanovka of Žitomir district of Žitomir district of Viktor Kramarev. Valeria Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of the closure of the New Ukraine School of Public Education No. 1 in Kirovograd. Vasil Blacky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the authorities with regard to the protection of the rights of citizens of the Illenic district of Winnick. Vladimir Stretovic to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to stop the criminal prosecution of journalists of the Information Agency "Your Time" and to give legal assessment to the materials of the criminal cases in question. Vitalia Barwinenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the legality and validity of the decision of the Odessa City Council session No.845-VI of 8 July 2011. Igor Bado to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the possible illegal actions of the first deputy head of the Ukrainian administration, Irina Akimova, the abuse of her official position and the obstruction of the implementation of the national anti-corruption strategy. Katerina Vaszczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper use of the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing Construction of Youth Credits allocated to the family of Yuri Matwiyczuk for the construction of an apartment in a residential building: Kyivska District, Butcha City, Tarasivska Street, 8th century Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the examination by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine of the illegal granting of land by village head of the village of Petrovka Poltava in the Poltava region, which resulted in the loss of access to the coastal zone along the Vorskla River. Alexander Goodima to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of prosecutors in the illegal alienation of property in the citizens of Ludmila Farmega. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the facts set out in the case of lawyer Galina Shapovalova regarding possible violations by officials of the local authorities of the city of Sevierodononeck. Helen Schustik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of corruption of officials of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine in the first-time transfer of judges. Peter Cibenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of measures for the prosecution of fraud by a citizen named Victor Lemish. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on possible illegal actions by the Secretary of the South Ukrainian City Council of the Mikolai District of Galina Polycanina. Roman Zabzaluk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for failure to respond by the prosecutor of the Mikolai district to a parliamentary appeal regarding pressure and blackmail, as well as illegal actions against members of the South Ukrainian City Council. Roman Tkač to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the wrong requirements of the Kazankov Rural Head of Kazankov District State Administration of the Mikolai District for damages to citizens during their use of land, for obstacles to the privatization of land and for the unlawful actions of the Kazanki District Attorney’s Office in connection with the situation. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of citizens affected by the private enterprise "Youth Housing Building "Arcada" in Odessa. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of arrears from wages to employees of the Open Shareholders Association of the Fifth Mechanical Repair and Repair Plant of the Dnipropetrov region. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need for action aimed at halting corruption and disposing of the state budget by officials. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of legislation and abuses committed by the head of the Mayakow Rural Council and on the unobjective investigation of such acts by officials of the Volin District Attorney’s Office. [[Baldwin, Cosub, and Others]] Group of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Government of the Central Union of Consumer Associations of Ukraine on the violation of the rights of entrepreneurs in the city of Złotonosza Cherkaskie region by the head of the government of the Cerkasian Food Plant Victor Boyin. [[Tomenko, Sas, Kravchuk]] Mikoli Potapczuk and Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the mass destruction of forest plants by the state-owned enterprise "Specialized Forestry Agro-industry company "Kamen-Cashirskagrolis" in the Volinsk region. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Dniprovi Bus Plant of Dniprodjynsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine for an improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for the cancellation of the order of the Chief Chief of Culture, Art and Protection of the Cultural Heritage of the Kyiv City Administration from 31 August 2011 to move the archaeological collection of the Museum of History of Kiev from the "Building of Peter I" to the temporary premises of the Museum at the National Centre for Business and Cultural Cooperation of the Ukrainian House. Olga Gerasimük and Irina Herashchenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on providing information on the illegal establishment of temporary trade facilities on the prospect of Freedom, 24-26 in Kiev. [[Small architectural forms]] Andrija Pavlovski to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the non-admission of the raiding of property belonging to the private company Zubitsky People's Medicine. Andrija Shevchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on violations of the current legislation and commission of crimes and offences in the field of service by officials of companies called Teslaka and Morning and their leader, John Sklarov. Edward Prutnik and Valerija Bondik to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Kyiv City State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of a citizen of Victoria Maximovsky to verify the legality of land allocation and the establishment of legal grounds for construction on Soljani Street in Kiev, which could lead to the destruction of a neighbouring building. Jury Crook to the head of Ukraine’s State Road Agency, Head of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the cessation of delays in the use of real measures to equip pedestrian crossings in the village of Brosk, Ishmael district of Odessa, with means to protect against the arrival of transport. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the Kyiv City Administration, the Executive Committee of the Donetsk City Council, the Executive Committee of the Mycolay City Council, the Solomonian Regional Society of the City of Kiev, the Bologna District of the City of Kiev, the Government Administration of Kiev, the Ukrainian State Enterprise for the Post-Mail Connection of the People's Republic of Ukraine, the Public Action Society of Kyivénergo, the Holdingian Company of the State Administration of Kiev, the Ukrainian State Enterprise for the Remuneration of the All-Inhabitant and Public Health Care of the People's Deputies. [[The fences, the Poutniks, and others.]] Marina Perestenko to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on the purposeless use of the budget allocated for the renovation of the public education school No. 4 of the city of Armenia of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Sergey Pavlenko to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the restoration of drinking water supplies for residents of the village of Marfiuk, Lenin district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Yurya Litvina to the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for the implementation of the capital repair of the clinic with a daily hospital for 20 beds in the city of Colkina of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Groups of National Deputies (Geraschenko, Bondarenko and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for bringing disciplinary responsibility to the head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Anatolia Mogilov for violating the ethics of the civil servant and the public images of the deputy Alexander Kugel. Irina Herschenko and Olga Gerasimük headed by the Kiev City State Administration on the urgent use of measures to stop the illegal installation of temporary trade facilities on the prospect of Freedom, 24-26 in Kiev. [[Small architectural forms]] Vladimir Stretovic, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, on the use of measures to protect the rights of Alla Turilini's citizen and to remove the consequences of illegal actions against her by Kyiv's municipal services. Vladimir Pilpenka to the head of the Poltava District State Administration for the creation of a working group to address the issue of stable water supply to residential buildings on Soviet Street in the village of Orikhovka Lubenski district of Poltava, with the aim of protecting citizens’ rights to adequate living conditions. Sergei Gordienka, head of the Poltava District State Administration, head of the Kremenchuck District State Administration of Poltava Region, Kremenchucci City Head, on the need to organize a bus connection along the Kremenchuk-Krivushi-Dachi route for the inhabitants of Kremenchuk. the cities of Kremenczuk, which use land and live outside the city. Sergey Pavlenko to the head of Sevastopol’s City Administration for the electricity supply of the village of Orlin and the village of the Baidar Valley of Balaklav district of Sevastopol. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, 230 requests have been made. And at the same time, we have the MPs who are unhappy with the answer, but unfortunately, we can't look at them, because we've gone out in 10 minutes, 10 minutes, within 30 minutes. We hope that for the next plenary week on Friday we will have fewer parliamentary questions, and then we can also discuss these issues, which have to do with dissatisfaction with parliamentary questions. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the "BUT" faction, the "Fatherland", the "Our Ukraine" faction, the "National Self-Defense", demand a recess to hold consultations. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is that what we should call it? Wait a minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, one minute! Well, please! Should we call the Conciliation Council? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, one minute! Adam Ivanovich will say that he had a commission! Then we'll call it a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the situation with what was said. People’s deputies are on their way. Shevchuk, Goodman, Pierre, Bolura, Bondarenko, Olena Shustik, Shishkina, Philenko. After the conversation, maybe right now, because that's the information that was before, they're going to agree on what they're going to see. Journalists have since. [[B in m in s a l in]] The journalists of the colony’s visit were finished. Why weren't they released? Because they've been treated poorly, you can see. You can see they're here now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-16-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a recess of up to 12 hours for 30 minutes. To the leaders of the MP factions and groups, please gather in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council.
