ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:13]] Cards were registered in the 426 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of a colleague of the national MP Mikoli Bagraeva. Please welcome him on his birthday, and wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 5 to 8 June 2012. There were six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 59 questions on the agenda have been considered: 20 laws and 42 decrees adopted, 32 bills adopted on the basis, one bill sent to the Committee for Re-reading, two bills returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, 22 bills and three draft decrees rejected; and according to the proposals of the President of Ukraine: one law adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law rejected; 239 parliamentary requests were announced. Dear national deputies, according to article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to speak on behalf of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. Representatives of the MPs and groups would like to sign up. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next. National Deputy Corge, please, from the Party of the Regions. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u2	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished voters, respected colleagues! Today, the whole world is watching the powerful steps of the President of Ukraine, the reform of various spheres of activity and the strengthening of the power of our state, of course, and the implementation of the Euro-2012 national football project. I would like to remind everyone that in 2007 it was during the work of the government that Viktor Yanukovich took all the organizational and financial measures to win the tender and was granted the right to hold this football festival in Ukraine. The terms are prepared and approved by the necessary laws and by the State Program of Preparation for the Championship. However, after the illegal dissolution of Parliament and the change of government, populism, the inaction of the "orange" power has put the implementation of this dual task for Ukraine at the brink of collapse. Despite the legacy of the oranges, the new President's team, at the cost of extraordinary effort, changed the situation in just a few months, eliminating a complete failure. Government officials, local authorities, and builders restored Ukraine’s trust and authority in the world. Modern roads, bridge crossings, airports, stadiums, developed infrastructure, and new urban and intercity transport have become a long - awaited reality. The Euro - 2012 conduct in Ukraine goes far beyond sports or a separate region. This project is the path to Europe, the path to economic growth and the well-being of Ukrainians. Its implementation is an additional job, an increase in investment, a revival of domestic potential, an improvement in the living conditions of our citizens. The construction of sports palaces, football courses, children's pools and sports fans is already the priority of the Party of Regions and the implementation of the President's programme. This policy opens the way to a healthy way of life, to the full formation of young people as a future nation. The first days of the Euro-2012 event have demonstrated worldwide that Ukraine is a powerful European state with great potential and a future. Without the financial support of the European Union, we have honored ourselves with the assignment and spent six times less than our Polish colleagues. We see moderate prices for goods and services, and we see the holiday mood of those who have fallen into the midst of this European holiday and give the highest marks of hospitality, culture and kindness to the Ukrainian people. Foreign officials and UEFA President Michel Platini claim that during this period Ukraine has moved to the EU for decades. Today I'd like to ask the opposition and so-called Euro Integrators who don't come off television screens, but what have you done for Ukraine, besides driving around the world and watering our state with dirt and demanding economic sanctions against your people? I am convinced that the Party of Regions will continue to support the efforts and decisive steps taken by the authorities and the President on the way to implementing the most ambitious projects on the prosperity of our state and the well-being of our citizens. Only together will we do everything for a better future new, stable and prosperous, Ukraine! Dear colleagues, today our congregation is playing its next round, and perhaps the most important match with the English team. So let us join together in wishing our team confidence and victory alone. And I urge all Ukrainians to support our congregation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u3	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u4	Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Communists warn that the regime continues to attack workers'rights. The author of the notorious pension reform, the Tax Code of the Minister of Social Policy of Tigypto, stated the Government's intention to legislate the law on the solidarity of employees of state-owned enterprises for the payment of salaries, which to date exceeds 1 billion grevens. To this end, the Government proposes that each employee be assigned part of his salary to a special fund to pay off arrears in enterprises where he or she exists. That is, those to whom the State and the oligarchs do not pay their salaries will now have to pay their own debts. This is a legitimate outcome of economic reforms aimed at the total elimination of State property, total privatization, the strengthening of the oligarchic regime, and the people are deprived of all rights other than one, to the power of oligarchs for a plate of bread. Instead of supporting a domestic producer, ensure a guaranteed State order for Ukrainian enterprises, instead of creating a system of concessional public credit for three, five per cent of the annual ones, as we suggest, are communists, not as commercial banks are now tearing down three skins, lending to companies under 20-30 per cent of the annual. Instead, the most profitable businesses that then go into the hands of the oligarchs will be artificially bankrupt today. Communists require the adoption of a law on the nationalization of the return of strategic industries — energy, crafts, aircraft, machinery, chemical, mining, metal industry and the private sector. These enterprises must work for the entire country, not for the pocket of hundreds of oligarchic families. Dear voters, there is another major problem in Ukraine today and it is linked to an acute epidemiological situation. I'll just get a few numbers. Nearly 235,000 Ukrainians are infected with HIV, three and a half million are infected with various diseases, and 46,000 of our citizens are infected with active forms of tuberculosis every year. More than four million people suffer from these epidemics alone, about 10 per cent of the population of Ukraine. Experts estimated that at least a billion bracelets were needed to provide only these categories of patients with the necessary medication. And our faction will certainly propose to include these funds in the 2013 budget. But it's a temporary measure and it's obvious. Unless the entire public health policy is fundamentally changed, the disastrous consequences will not keep us waiting and, as you can see, the figures of that confirmation. We Communists believe that it is necessary to take the first step to adopt a health withdrawal programme from the crisis in which it was driven in two post-Soviet decades in Ukraine. And it must begin with the immediate cessation of the so-called “medical reform”, as the entire population of Ukraine has already said with concern and indignation. Instead of the thoughtless reduction of treatment facilities, full funding and technological upgrading should be ensured, funding domestic medical equipment and the production of medicines should be provided, funding should be provided continuously and the provision of medicines to the public, and public monitoring of the qualifications of medical personnel should be put in place. We Communists need to introduce a system of strict State control over the quality and level of prices for medicines, especially children's medicines and vaccines, medicines for the socially vulnerable, for our pensioners. In the end, the system of quality and free public health care must be restored.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u5	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u7	Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense. The next one will be Vasil Shpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u8	Dear fellow citizens, dear colleagues! The final is near. I say, unfortunately, not until the Euro-2012 final. It's a legitimate finale of the failed socio-economic policies of today's government. The consequences of its domination are killers for Ukraine and Ukrainians. According to a credible international resource, Business Insider, Ukraine has ranked fourth in the rating of countries at risk of default. In just five months this year, the Pension Fund did not have six billion dollars, and the President's so-called social initiatives, according to our estimates, require another 33 billion dollars, and there is no money. From the real economy, there will be no additional funds, no more juices have been squeezed out of it, and no one in the civilized world will give a cent to corrupters who pursue their political opponents. The authorities began to cut into living social benefits. On the day of the vote, the custom law passed by the majority in Parliament quietly passed another vile decision. It allows the government to abolish benefits to citizens whose rights are guaranteed by the State. Even mainstream media say that as soon as Euro - 2012 is completed, the authorities will start printing tens of billions of empty bracelets. Accidentally, the International Monetary Fund predicts in 2013 the collapse of our national currency to over nine dollars per dollar. We've been through this before: hyperinflation, price spikes, a sharp drop in living standards. Where to? The Ukrainian still earns 16 times less than the average European. Janukovic's regime is trying to distract people from this tragic and shameful situation where the authorities can't provide a decent salary and pension, it speaks of language, it tries to artificially split society. Paradox. In Ukraine, power itself acts as the chief separatist. The irresistible rights of both Ukrainian and Russian - speaking citizens for a decent life are not even sought by this authority. A party of regions is so afraid of paying off, it introduces a bill to create a new force structure, such as the gendarmerie, specifically for the launching of peaceful protests. He wants to stay in the bayonets. Nothing will help you. The united opposition "The Fatherland" is going to the parliamentary elections to remove today's regime. We have a clear plan to change the country, to clear the bays under which our country is left. The entire program of united opposition is backed up by dozens of bills. They are now about 80, and they touch every aspect of life. The first thing we're going to do right after winning the parliamentary elections is to modernize the current pensions, pay each pensioner an extra 334 dollars stolen by that power, raise the living minimum to two hundred. Four hundred dollars, reduced spending on central authorities at least twice, created an anti-corruption office and conducted a hard illustration of government officials. I'm sure the electorate won't let the bankruptcy of today's power fool himself with neither dead Greek nor political speculation. The united opposition of Fatherland will win and Ukraine will have a worthy future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u9	Basil Shpak, faction of the People's Party. Soroczynska Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! In recent times, the issue of obtaining a state right to land has become a matter of concern for Ukrainian citizens. It takes about one year to complete the project. After all the experts in State and non-State bodies have been conducted, the land-disposal project is being reviewed by the privatization body, which over a period of one month takes the appropriate decision and submits the documentation to the cadastral office to assign the cadastral number. And since then, the documentation has been transmitted to the territorial authority of land for the issuing of the State Act. And it also takes very little time. In order to take the site away in kind and produce documentation, district land administrations offer their private firms to people, and they charge between 2 and 5,000 dollars for their contract work. There are 20 to 30 units or more of these firms under the supervision of land administration specialists in each area. These firms pay a single tax and hold two people on a license procedure, and 20 do not work officially, and there is also a number of paid services that are not provided by regulations that people have to meet when they establish a state property act on land. For this reason and other reasons, 211,000 citizens in the Hmielnicki district today who are entitled to free ownership of the land did not receive them. For many years, the Lithuanian district land administration has held the ration certificates of residents of the village of Volosovtsi, and without any explanation, it does not give them State certificates on land rations. It happens when two or three owners are issued on the same land. There are almost no cases of landslides being sent in kind to smaller areas than those shown in the certificates. For example, in the village of Zyankovci of the Deraznjan region, the Hmelnicka district, certificates are issued for 2.54 hectares and state acts for 1.4 hectares. In the village of Kapustin, Starocostinian district, a citizen of the United States of America, Ukrainian descent, fraudulently acquired the land pail, as well as the real estate of peasants, incorporated all of this into her own business and is not counted against people. In general, despite government action, the process of land privatization has failed today. In general, there is a misunderstanding of the role of the territorial authorities in the process of forming state-owned land. Since most of this work is carried out by units of the DRC center, which are also structural units of the State. At the same time, the cost of services has risen several times, and citizens have to walk three or five times from the FTC to the territorial administration and the bank, and stand in line for tens of hours. Therefore, it is urgent for the government to take a decision on a simplified procedure to establish state ownership of land that would satisfy Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u11	Soroczynska-Kyrilenko, MP group "Reforms for the Future." Next is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" group calls for the attention of the government and the public to the difficult health situation, which is being complicated today by insufficiently thought out and considered steps to reform it. So far, society has no clear idea of the main priorities of reforming the medical sector. Neither citizens nor health workers know what to expect from reforms and what positive effect they will have on the way out. However, the authorities responsible for their implementation in the center and in the locations do not burden themselves with the explanatory work on the substance and objective rationale of those or other measures for their implementation. As a result, the reform leads to a reduction in budget funding rather than an increase in the quality and accessibility of health services. The deputy faction of Reforms for the Future believes that, to a large extent, it contributes to the adoption of appropriate decisions in a culinary manner and, under certain conditions, is perceived as an infringement of the constitutional right of citizens to health. And in the context of so-called optimisation in the network of educational institutions, we see the public as a company when we cut down on infrastructure in medicine. Such approaches give rise to misunderstandings in society. In doing so, people are not as opposed to medical reforms as they are against approaches to their implementation. Yes, parents refuse to understand why, for example, in the context of medical reform, pediatric services in the country are actually being eliminated. Under these conditions, the medical care of children created instead of children’s health clinics is unacceptable, forcing them to seek paid medical services. In addition to patients, there is another side that has suffered, doctors who are in a situation of uncertainty and under constant stress, because the elimination of medical facilities means unemployment for them. The problem in the district hospitals is particularly acute. In particular, recently during a visit to the Coryukow Central District Hospital in Chernigiv district, Igor Ribakov, head of the deputy faction "For the Future", has received numerous requests: not to allow the closure of the only obstetric ward in the area because of the lack of qualified personnel. In addition, the Coryukowa Central District Hospital is the only one in the area, serving 30,000 people and staffing 65 percent, 20 percent of whom are retired. This problem needs to be addressed urgently. An urgent solution is the problem of the declaration of drug prices. Because of the imperfection of this procedure, medical institutions can't buy, at budget costs, the essential medicines of group "A" for patients with severe diseases, this applies primarily to medicines that are used daily. These and the last. Of course, there are many problems, but today public and charitable organizations such as the health of sneezes need to be stepped up. The Institute of Social Projects with their Hand of Help project and a lot of other projects. Dearly present and elected, the MP's faction of our Reform for the Future requires a more balanced and well-founded approach to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u13	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u14	It's medicine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u15	Andrey Kozemyka's faction of "BUT" - "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u16	Good afternoon! First of all, on behalf of our faction and political power, I sincerely desire the success of the Ukrainian national assembly in today’s match with the English congregation. Unfortunately, though, the Euro-2012 may be the last European holiday for Ukraine. The refusal of the leaders of the most influential countries of Europe to attend the match of their collectives in Ukraine is the most clear confirmation of the protest and the greatest disgrace to the authorities. It is because of them that Ukraine will soon become a self-sustaining state, isolated from the world, with a poor, frightened people, deprived of any hope and prospects. The European Union, together with the European Parliament, expressed its unequivocal position: there are political prisoners in Ukraine convicted of political motives. The only chance left for the authorities to remedy the situation and avoid world isolation is to meet the basic requirements of the European Parliament Resolution of 24 May this year. One of the key requirements of the resolution is to guarantee the objectivity and transparency of the process of camaraderie in the Timoshenko case, which must meet the legal standards of justice and common practice in Europe. The resolution calls for an end to selective justice directed against the policy of opponents. On June 26 of this year, there must be a hearing of a cassation complaint by Timoshenko, the Supreme Special Court. Julia Volodymyrna sent a letter to the court asking to hold a meeting without her participation. So there's no formal reason to postpone the trial. The only requirement of our political force of the "BUT" faction is to hold this court hearing in accordance with Ukrainian legislation without any deliberate delay. This will be the final test for the entire system of Ukrainian justice. If the judges find the intended reasons for the postponement of the sitting again, this will be a convincing argument that there is no independent judiciary in Ukraine anymore, and the whole system from the District Court to the Constitutional Court is in the hands of one person, Mr Janukovic. Therefore, whatever pleas of pardon or independence of the courts he has not made, delaying the consideration of the appeal on the other hand, the authorities are delaying the time to prevent Julius Timoshenko from being brought before the European Court of Human Rights, for the judgment of this court can be only one - justifiable. President Janukovic, I understand that very well. So he and the Henprosecutors have already charged Timoshenko with murder and sentenced her. If the guarantor has such good information about the murder of Sherban, why does the Party of Regions block the establishment of a parliamentary TSK to investigate this and other resonance killings of politicians? If Victor Yanukovich has grounds for such claims, the Attorney - General and the Prosecutor’s Office are obliged to question him as a witness in accordance with the law. The "Boat of Fatherhood" faction refers to the President as the guarantor of the Constitution with the requirement: to make every effort to ensure that the examination by the High Court of Cassation of Yulia Timoshenko takes place without any pressure from the officials. In the case of other judicial manipulations, our political power will appeal to the international institutions -- the European Parliament, the Paris Monitoring Committee, the leaders of the European countries. We also apply all the legal weights to force President Yanukovich to adhere to the basic democratic principles of the system of justice and to immediately release Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, and all the political prisoners in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u17	Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. For proposals that require a proper response from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask the Secretariat to prepare the necessary requests, letters and assignments. Dear National Deputies! The two factions, the People's Party faction and the Reforms for the Future group, require, in accordance with the Rules, to announce a recess for the declaration. Sergey Tereshuk will make a statement. Is that what I'm saying? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u18	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party, Cherkaschina. Honorable colleagues, respected TV sets, and radio audiences! We, patriots and Ukrainian citizens, are proud to have another European football championship held in our home country. Five years ago we chose this right, well prepared for a great sports international holiday. With an open soul, a generous Ukrainian hospitality is accepted by Europe’s better football teams and their fans. This is openly claimed by most of our foreign guests in interviews, interviews, and the media. The UEFA's decision to hold a championship in our country, the competition of such a high level from the most popular sport in the world, testifies to the international authority of Ukraine, its great contribution to the development of the entire world sport. Of course, we are very proud to have the attention of the world’s sports community to the football arenas of Kiev, Lviv, Donetsk. Naturally, Ukrainian citizens experience, feel hurt for our congregation, rejoice in its victories, and learn the bitterness of defeat. As it were in the football field, millions of our countrymen and guests gathered near the blue screens. Football brought all the Ukrainians together. For our congregation, Ukrainians in many parts of the world are hurt. It is clear that in the most convenient situation there are the inhabitants of our cities, where cable and digital television, where the matches were screened in cafes and bars, collectively hundreds of fans discussed each of their episodes. Yet, for some reason, the inhabitants of our Ukrainian villages do not have the opportunity to do so. They often talk about this with bitterness and resentment at meetings. And this happened because the ministry in the knowledge of sports, the Football Federation, the State Department and other officials did not take into account the conditions in which the villagers lived. In this regard, they did not work very well. As you know, the direct broadcasts of football matches are repeated by only two publicly available channels: "First National" and "Ukraine." Which, of course, is not enough for a country like ours. And the question is, why did they step away from this important thing called Inter, 1+1, ICTV, other channels? That's surprising, because from all points of view, the European Football Championship is more important than a talk show that doesn't bring our society together at all. Clearly, it is very difficult to correct the situation today. However, there was sufficient time to take into account the interests of all football fans, and there were no smaller football fans in the village than in the cities. According to our faction, our football officials should have taken into account that the Ukrainian TV channel is not available in rural areas. It would be logical for these football matches, with the participation of the compulsive Ukraine to point at.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u20	The faction of the People’s Party points out that there are no similar mistakes and mistakes in the future. Because Ukraine will still have major international events of great political, cultural, and sporting significance. We hope that this confidence is shared by you, as do every citizen of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Let us turn to the issues set out in the June 19, 2012, schedule. We need to consider the inclusion of a daily set of bills. I'm asking for your attention. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Land of Recreational Assignment. [[Registration number 10367]] Please vote. [[10:33:10]] For 215 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the free choice of a sanatorium. [[Registration number 10437]] Please vote. [[10:33:45]] For 230 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the issue of the internal government loan bonds to Pat "Ukrhydroenergo"]] [[Registration number 10612]] Please vote. [[10:34:22]] For 260 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on the securities of PAT "Ukrhidroenergo"]] [[Registration number 10611]] Please vote. [[10:34:54]] For 258. Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the production and use of motor fuels with the content of biocomponents. [[Registration numbers 10572, 10572-1]] Please vote. [[10:35:28]] For 257 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences concerning the settlement of matters that make it impossible to perform administrative charges is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10429]] Please vote. [[10:36:04]] For 240 There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of personal data. [[Registration number 10472, 10472-1]] Please vote. [[10:36:36]] For 261 There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on food safety. [[Registration number 10495]] Please vote. Take off the vote, please. Sign up for the discussion. Please put your name on the board. Grivkowski. He's refusing. Carpuch. Carmazine, Will You Be?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u22	Please hand over Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u23	Please, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u24	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Ukrainian Opposition Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have asked for your word. You see, it was easier for me to give than to announce the recording. The government is drafting amendments to the 12 legislative acts of Ukraine, according to which the laws: "On the safety and quality of food products", "For the protection of consumer rights", "For veterinary medicine", "On the provision of health-epidemic welfare for the population", but also to the Criminal Procedure Code of Change, the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, the Code of Administrative Violations and all that. The Science and Experimental Authority has provided help, it seems to be on the 12th, and now I'll tell you exactly on the 11 sheets that the bill needs substantial work. So it doesn't fit, it doesn't do conceptually, it doesn't do anything good, it doesn't do because it's falling into the legislative standards that are already defined, it doesn't do because of its uncalculation. That's why I would ask the national MPs not to put it in order right now, not to put it in order of day, but to ask the government to work on this bill so that we don't have such a terrible situation. We don't have this number of experts' comments on any of the projects that are being implemented today, not on any of them. Here on page 11, let me highlight these comments. I won't be in the time I have, I can't stop at them, and I can't stop at constitutional violations. All I'm saying is that there can't be such a bill that we've adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u25	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Yuri Karmazin, I am grateful that you have drafted this bill. Yet we discussed at the faction of "The Yulia Block Timoshenko is "The Fatherland" in the morning, and we believe that the problem of feeding a safe, quality Ukrainian is extremely important. And if a bill has to be amended, it's the MPs who can do it, not trust it all to the government. I'll just give you an example from our football festival. Foreign tourists are satisfied with hospitality, reception, and Ukrainian beer. The only thing they're afraid of is using Ukrainian products. Yes, does this fact really need close, operational intervention, rather than stretching out in time? When, then, will we consider the matter? Or will the new parliament do so in the next chamber? So we think we need to include this issue, we need to look closely at it, and we need to make a balanced decision about taking it as a basis, or we need to focus on re-reading it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u27	Mr. Blackwall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u28	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! You know, sometimes good names don't give you very good things. This law is both holy and sinful. There are things that the previous speaker has just said that are really positive, but they're being followed again by the removal of certification, which our room has already spoken against on more than one occasion, other things are going on, changes to codes that obviously cannot be drawn in a set, in a single packet with other simple bills. Therefore, it would be best if such subtle associations were not to be made, not now to include them in the order of the day. The government can re-examine, make adequate changes according to codes — where punishment for improper food quality is actually imposed, etc. Individually, irritable questions that have never found support in the hall serve because quality will worsen rather than improve, to continue with a separate bill and to look for votes. So I do propose not to include it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, we are at odds with ourselves. On the one hand, we're talking about the fact that certificates are being revoked here, and on the other hand, we're not looking at punishment if there's an inadequacy of produce. We are implementing European standards to reduce permits, but at the same time increasing the responsibility of the people working in this area. So this is completely logical, maybe incomplete, and it's suggested that we take a comprehensive look at this question that our colleagues were talking about here. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on food safety. Please vote. [[10:42:50]] For 228 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine on the issue of refugees and persons who need additional or temporary protection. [[Registration number 10428]] Please vote. [[10:43:25]] For 258. Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity is put to the vote. [[concerning proposals of a specially authorized body]] [[Registration number 10426]] Please vote. Take down the vote. Please, Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to vote in favour of this bill, it interferes with the authority of local self-government, and this only testifies to the centralization of government. So what does the project offer? That the local council cannot consider acts, draft regulatory acts if there is no conclusion of an authorized body. That is, a scheme that hangs the work of local authorities. And in fact, the scheme will have a different, that is, the procrastination veto, is when you give a ten-day period to give the appropriate body its conclusions if it has anything to say. We cannot block the work of the local government. So the bill is bad in its essence, it's working against the President's decentralization policy. I suggest we don't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote a proposal to include the bill in the agenda. [[Registration number 10426]] Please vote. [[10:45:28]] For 256 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Law on Protection of Social Morality. [[on State oversight]] [[Registration number 10447]] Please vote. [[10:45:59]] For 269 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Information Act and the Ukrainian Public Information Act. [[in a new edition]] [[Registration number 10455]] Please vote. [[10:46:38]] For 298 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on the implementation of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine on the cost of mortgage loans. Please take off the vote, sign up for the speech. Please, dear fellows. Karpuk Volodymyr. Stanislav Arjevitina?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u32	Pass it on to Arjevitina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u33	Stanislaw Arzeviteen. Then Eugene Kirilchuk will, he will pass it on to Hanushkah. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u34	Dear national MPs seem to be very good as an initiative aimed at supporting citizens, i.e. individuals in part of state support in building up or acquiring mortgages, whether it's a partial payment of this part of the loan, or a partial payment of interest payments. I think it's the right thing to do. But on the other hand, if you read the text, from the point of view of the normative nature of the drafting of the laws themselves, and then the introduction of such norms, it's simply stupid, it's illiterate, you won't say. Although the author of this bill is the Cabinet of Ministers. Who wants to make sure of that, please read the conclusion of scientific and expert management, of the same Ministry of Justice. That's what I'm talking about. If we're going to adopt this bill with a good initiative like this, we're going to spend a lot of time, and as a result, we won't accept it. So let's not include it. One or two days is to include and submit another bill to the Cabinet of Ministers, which would eliminate all the shortcomings that are already in place today and the conflict situation. I'm asking you not to support this draft of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u35	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, please take a very close look at this project. In spite of the title of this bill, there are actually two issues that are being considered. The first question is the transfer of the lease. So we're essentially legitimizing the shadowy circulation of land. So the name of the project itself does not match the essence. The second part of the appearance is about the mortgage. What is proposed? It is suggested that the protected articles provide a percentage payment. But first, the protected articles apply to all budgets, including local ones. While interest payments are only a state budget. Secondly, well, it's very sweet. So we can actually think that all of the absolute articles in the economic classification have to be protected. This is not an economic classification article. It's really a program, a program that pays interest on the mortgage and so on and so forth. So it doesn't go by economic classification. And in this regard, the project itself, I agree with Arzvitin, shows that there are unfortunately no other people left in Kabmin who can actually prepare drafts that don't even know what the difference is between economic classification and the programming classification of the budget. So the project itself is both illiterate: the first is the mixing of two concepts of land leases and a second mortgage. And the second. If we're already working on the mortgage, make it a project to make it even more human, because they'll laugh at us, and we won't be able to accept it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u37	Vladislav Lukyanov, please, the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u38	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I propose to support this bill and I'll explain why now. We have a negative experience when there's no interest in the budget to compensate citizens who have borrowed loans from youth lending programs under housing insurance schemes. And then these citizens, who believed the state, went to mortgages, took loans to banks, stayed on one by one with financial institutions and with their incomes, with their misery. I want to say that over the period 2010-2011 and only this year 2012, we were able to close off the interest on the mortgage loans we left behind.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u39	Honorable National MPs, expressed in their positions on this bill. The draft Law on the implementation of the social initiatives of the President of Ukraine on the cost of mortgage loans to be included in the agenda is on the vote. [[Registration number 10557]] Please vote. [[10:52:34]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, before this question, we agreed on a proposal at the Conciliation Council that on Friday, during the "hour of questions to the Government" the Minister of the APC, Mikola Jury, would answer the questions of the National Deputies. It was discovered that he was on vacation until June 23. So if you don't mind, let's put forward a second proposal for an hour of questions to the government, a keynote speaker to be the minister of regional policy to discuss these issues, including what we've been discussing today. I'd like to support this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for inclusion, one minute, is put to the vote in the agenda of the daily draft of the Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Taxation of Pleasures and Pleasures. I understand that this is a very sensitive question. So let's do it this way. Please write down to express your position on this matter. Please give me the name of the national MPs. Taras Stacks. Who, Pavlovsky? Please, Andrew Pavlovsky. Then - Stephen Kurpil will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u40	Andrey Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko "The Fatherland". The luxury tax bill seems to have been passed three times by the opposition to me, and in co-authorship with John Kirilenko, Antonina Bolura, and every time, the Party of the Regions, zero votes. And here, before the elections, they mentioned that in society, the terrible social injustices that engender their demonstration, the hammock consumption annoy people, and before the elections, the government proposes another campaign. And look, again in this law, there are latches left to avoid paying taxes to oligarchs, the same offshore black holes. Why do only natural persons, rather than legal persons, not pay taxes for luxury? Thus they, the oligarchs, will transfer all their luxury to legal persons. And I would like to point out that opposition gives a more complex approach in its alternative laws, where there is also a progressive scale of taxation with tax reduction on those who have small and middle incomes with the proposal to tax off-shore areas, finally, and with the proposal to increase the rent for using natural fossils. And at the same time, I would like to point out that, despite such a beautiful pre-election name as taxation of wealth and luxury items, it would be right to call this Law on the Fight against Honey Bees -- this is the fight of the oligarchs against luxury, the fight of the Party of the Regions against luxury. They're the main users of this luxury. Don't look at people, they won't believe you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u41	Please, Stepan Kurpil, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Sergio Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u43	Sergey Teryohin, please. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u44	Thank you, Mr. Stepan. Dear colleagues! If you carefully read a government bill, you may suddenly find that it is written for economic idiots. Since no normal economically educated person, if used by a government bill, will be able to pay all taxes on luxury, since it is generally introduced either in another jurisdiction to tax or to legal persons. That's the first one. Second of all, we don't need to bother our voters with their heads. It's not the spending, it's not the fur hats, it's the crocodile shoes that Janukovic loves so much, and it's the incomes that these fur hats and croissants buy for. Secondly, look at the declarations, please, our authorities, members of the government, let's say, Mr. Azarov, and you'll find hundreds of millions of dollars that they showed, but you won't find the taxes that they paid out of these millions because they didn't pay them. Because most of these hundreds of millions are paid as passive incomes, dividends, interest, royalty, and securities fraud. In this government bill, no "league" is about taxation of these millions, or billions of dollars. This is a luxury, not a luxury in a fur hat that every woman has when she goes abroad to declare in a customs declaration. So, well, the grey horse, I'm sorry, the government wrote again. Please pay attention to the master's project.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u45	Thank you. Peter Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to some of the incomprehensible things that are happening to us in the formulation of the agenda. The faction of the company made a proposal for a luxury law, a luxury tax, as early as March of this year. And it turns out that all those introduced in June are why they are included in the agenda, and ours, which was introduced in March, is not included. Why did this happen? For one simple reason, it is our draft law that actually redistributes these taxes, and the rich must pay for all that is involved in the exploitation of people, because they are enriched with illegally acquired property and the return of stolen property and so on. We have certainly made a proposal that radically changes the situation. And apparently, that's why those who want to do it today, one more time, take it out, and go back to record just what they did before the elections and didn't make ours. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u47	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u48	Vladimir Mihajlovich, I insist that our draft Law 10197 be included on the agenda as well, and in fact, we will present our position to the draft laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u49	Dear people's deputies, please, Mikhail Chechtov. Then it's easy and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u50	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Let us look, not at the political situation, but at the country's position, at serious issues. That's the first one. Second. The draft law of the Government, the Government, has been carefully prepared and put on the agenda. Third. To date, we do not take for granted. There are just three bills on one issue and I am in favour of supporting Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko and introducing the fourth bill and then carefully discussing them in the first reading procedure, adopting a bill as a basis. I have no doubt that we have no doubt that reasonable things are laid down in each bill, so that we can accept a bill as a basis for the second reading again, abstracting the political situation, and adopting the necessary bill for the country. In fact, the problem that will be addressed by the bill, which will be adopted, is being resolved to date in the countries of European democracy in crisis. Therefore, I ask once again to move away from the political situation and to include in the bill, including Simonenka, a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u51	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u52	Consider them on first reading, accept them as a basis and continue to be required before leaving to adopt a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Yes, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, the government is now pretending to be taxing luxury. I ask, who taxes the Ukrainian oligarchs' houses for 200 million dollars that they bought in London and Paris, Monaco and so on. Does this luxury fall under taxation? No, it's not. Is it the same as taxing the luxury that our President, Prime Minister, and all others have? No, that is to say, it's propaganda and osmosis before the election. In order to fill the budget, I will tell our great reformer Azarov what to do. Denunciation of the Cyprus agreement, which results in the withdrawal of tens of billions of dollars a year from Ukraine without tax, the radical reduction of expenses for maintenance of office equipment, law enforcement agencies, and the treatment of officials. Hei Azarov and the President are going to come out of the government's docks, which are held by government accounts and saved money for job creation, for education, for medicine -- this is going to be a real fight with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u55	Where do the oligarchs get that kind of money you're talking about? Dear National Deputies! Let's do it this way. Since we include all the bills in the agenda, plus the bill that Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko and his colleagues introduced, we're going to include four bills in the agenda. [[Registration number 10197]] And then we'll work them out and we'll pick the best option. Because there is a problem. It's that taxes, as you know, have a 15 to 17 percent degree. Dividends are 5 percent invested. We just need to introduce a progressive scale of aggregate income taxation and remove the problem. What we're doing, we're driving the economy and life further into the shadows. So that's what you're asking. Support the inclusion in the agenda of these three bills, then consider them on the committee, and bring them up for discussion. Make a decision that is transparent and objective. That's why I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft laws. [[Registration number 10197, 10558, 10558-1, 10558-2]] Please vote. [[11:03:58]] For 305 Decision taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 179, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 44, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" – 6, Communists – 25, People's Party – 18, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 14. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Support for Agriculture is put to the vote. [[on the activities of the Agrarian Fund]] [[Registration number 10417]] Please vote. [[11:04:45]] For 242 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of utilities. [[Registration number 10368]] Please vote. [[11:05:20]] For 231 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we were to consider with you the proposal to include in the agenda the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[Registration number 10575]] The government requests that this issue be postponed until Friday, for example, until further calculations have been made in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the bill. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a motion for a vote to be included in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act, the amended draft, please vote. [[on the special examination of persons who claim to take office in internal affairs]] [[Registration number 10559]] [[11:06:30.]] For 253 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on freedom of peaceful meetings. [[Registration number 10569]] Please vote. [[11:07:02]] For 227 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Act on Access to Public Information. [[on compensation for actual costs of copying and printing]] [[Registration number 10465]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:07:41]] For-44 The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Order amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Order of Enlightenment of the Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call". [[Registration number 10466]] [[11:08:14]] For the The decision is not taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Law on Collective Contracts and Agreements. [[on the definition of the sides of collective negotiations]] [[Registration number 10106]] Authors: Hara, Shevchuk, Suhi. For inclusion in the agenda, 10106. [[11:08:52]] For 228 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Employers’ Organizations, Their Merger, Their Rights and Their Guarantees. Please vote. [[11:09:28]] For 216 The decision is not taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting of the Single Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance for the purpose of clarifying individual provisions is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10295]] [[11:10:08]] For-47 The decision is not taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Compulsory Insurance of Civil and Legal Liability of Ground Transport Owners is put to the vote concerning the authorities of the Ukrainian Motor Insurance Office. [[Registration number 10626]] [[11:10:47]] For 246 Decision Adopted A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine shall be put to the vote. [[on the elimination of differences between separate standards of the Ukrainian Tax Code]] [[Registration number 1-300]] [[11:11:22]] For 258. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree on the 75th anniversary of the formation of the Žitomir Region. [[Registration number 10614]] [[11:11:54]] For 288 Decision taken. A proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project is put to the vote the Legislative Regulation on the Principles for Preventing Anthropogenic Climate Change. [[Registration number 10537]] [[11:12:27]] For 248 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 80th anniversary of Anatolia Solovyanka. [[Registration number 10289]] Please vote. [[11:12:59]] For the 320. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the daily project. The Order marking the 145th anniversary of the establishment of the National Opera Theatre of Taras Shevchenk. [[Registration number10366]] [[11:13:31]] For 304 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a 100-year-old decree from the day of the establishment of the death penalty. Mr. Sevastopol. [[Registration number 10427]] [[11:14:03]] For 258. Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 100th anniversary of the birth of Sabria Eredzepova. [[Registration number 10438]] Please vote. [[11:14:38]] For 308. Decision taken. It's the draft decree on the 100th anniversary of the birth of the Astrophysician scientist of North Andrew Borisovich. [[Registration number 10449]] [[11:15:06]] For 293 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 150th anniversary of the birth of scientist-crystalphic George Wolf. [[Registration number 10521]] [[11:15:36]] For 277 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the Order on the Celebration of 1000 Years Since the founding of the Saint-Usiknovene Ludovska Rock Monastery by Reverend Antony Pecherski. [[Registration number 10471]] People's Deputies Group: Zrabinsky, Bebelz, Matvienko, Zvaric, Kapliyenko It is up to the vote on inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[11:16:24]] For 292 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a decree marking the 120th anniversary of the birth of Stephen Josephovich Tudor. Please sign up, fellow believers, because there may be more willing to speak on this matter. Yes, last names, please. Mikhail Kosov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u57	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. But I want to speak on behalf of our committee, which considered both these drafts of the 120th anniversary of Stephen Tudor's birthday and 100th anniversary of Jaroslav Galan's birthday. So I'm on my way on both of these orders and I'll give you my opinion. Dear colleagues, well, let me say this as not easy as an MP, but as a literary scholar. Which one of you knows what Stephen Tudor wrote? If you don't know, I'll tell you what the main piece is, and I think Adam Ivanovich knows exactly, it's Father Solka's Pamphlet Day. And according to the author of this decree, this work is directed strongly against religion, against the church, against the clergy, and against the Vatican. Dear fellow MPs, we need to celebrate a celebration at a national level that is very conflicting in its essence. I know the environment because the village of Ponikwa, where Tudor was born, is in my constituency. As for Jaroslav Galan, be afraid of God, he is the author who is known for his pamphlet "I Spit on the Pope." Well, what do you want to do now, at the state level, celebrate this holiday with these spits? But fear God, but in what role will we preach to the whole world? That Pope of Rome, John Paul II, was in Ukraine and you all remember the drink they received. Don't tease people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u58	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this straight. I thought this issue had been resolved. Or we're here in the session room. We're showing the whole community as supposed representatives. political elite examples of tolerance, understanding and normal treatment of other points of view, or we will continue to transform the Supreme Council of Ukraine into some kind of a display of political, political battles. What's with the pamphlet, what's it all about? Jaroslav Galan died tragically, Jaroslav Galan had his political platform, Jaroslav Galan had his political perspective. Stephen Tudor, like Basil Stefanick, refers to the cohorts of Western Ukrainian poets, writers who also advocated a left - handed idea. If you want to mark on a national level and remind you that Western Ukraine is not only a certain blood hero, but there are also creative people, I propose to support these two decrees, both the first and the second: 1276 and 0277.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u60	Yeah, that's it? Dear colleagues, I will put these rulings to the vote in turn. I'm betting on a motion for inclusion in the agenda of Decree 10276 on the celebration of the 120th anniversary of the birth of Stephen Josephovich Tudor. Yes, there's a vote coming. [[11:21:10]] For 231 Decision taken. For the faction, please. Dear colleagues, I can't, you see, read. I've just got some tech in here, it's not working, so I can't see. You can see all of them. Well, I don't see what you can read! Adam Ivanovich, read it if you see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u61	Region Party - 181, "BUT" - did not vote, "Our Ukraine - 1, Communists - 25, "The People's Party" - did not vote, "Reforms" - 12, non-fractional - 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u62	There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 110th anniversary of the birth of the prominent Ukrainian Antifascist writer Jaroslav Aleksandrovitch Galana. [[Registration number 10277]] [[11:22:22]] For 230 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party - 184, "BUT – "Fatherhood" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 7, non-fractional – 13. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! So we moved very quickly, quickly to the vote, and the first bill people just didn't get together for the vote, it wasn't voted. [[10367]] Please return to 10367 again. Returning to 10108 is the draft Law on Employers' Organizations, Their Unity, Rights and Guarantees. This is a project by the People's Deputy, Shevchuk. Please revert to the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I have a request to hold further consultations. Because now that we're back, tomorrow, we'll keep going back to all the bills. Take it easy. Then, on the one hand, we're going to demand that we don't go back, and on the other hand, we're going to demand that we go back. Let's just let it catch up. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. I want to tell you again that I do not have the right to wager under the Rules, because tomorrow I am voting for the repeal of article 364, 365 before the end of my life. That's it, calm down. Dear colleagues, consult, calm down, take a look, and then we'll come back. You can't do this right now. Don't rape me. Even if you have a conscience, I beg of you! Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. Puts the vote to the vote. I'm sorry. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on improving measures against unfair competition is being announced for consideration. Proposal from the committee: To consider it as a reduced procedure. [[11:24:45.]] For 210 Decision taken. The reporter is the deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Larissa Kolysnik. The Coroner is the deputy chairman of the committee of Yuri Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u65	Good day, national MPs! I appeal to you, to those who care about the health of our citizens and health, and to the electorate in general, and also to yours. I ask your attention and consider a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to improve measures against unfair competition. The bill provides for the introduction of selection procedures for operators, the field of trade, and the services of sample products to be carried out in appropriate expert bodies. The purpose of this expertise is to identify and stop violations of legislation to protect against unfair competition in the form of spreading information that is misleading. The alleged violation is provided for in article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition. The responsibility for this violation has been imposed since 2008 and the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Unfair Competition. During 2011, more than 390 such violations were detected and stopped by the committee, accounting for 87 per cent of the total number of violations of economic competition legislation. Taking into account the general trend towards an increase in the number of these violations, there was an urgent need to establish a mechanism for the Committee’s bodies to carry out the planned checks, as well as for the identification of signs of a violation of article 15According to the selection of trade operators and the services of the relevant experts. In one of the markets, when the Antimonopoly Committee conducted a study of 100 samples, more than 40 were found not to be used. It is the health of the nation, your health, your family, your loved ones. I ask you to consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u66	I think this bill is so important that at first the Cabinet of Ministers appointed the first deputy, and then your structure voluntarily assigned you to come and tell us about the importance of the bill. I think it shows the attitude and communication with the Supreme Council and the quality of drafting drafts. Moreover, they did not even try to write a letter that anyone would report on this matter. It's just a shame. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Yuri Voropeyev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u67	Honourable colleagues, the presiding officer, have considered the bill before the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 24 April this year and the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine return it to the Cabinet of Ministers for what reasons. This bill allows the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine to obtain samples of any type of goods produced by our country's industry from any enterprise entity for budgetary resources. The question is, is it necessary for the Antimonopoly Committee to fight only with the monopolies on the market? If this were to be true of the goods or services produced by the natural monopoly or monopolies that exist on the market, it would be understandable. If we give this opportunity to the Antimonopoly Committee, that is, first, budget spending. Therefore, there is nothing written in the conclusions that additional expenditure will be spent, and this will be done through budgetary money. Second, this is the treatment of the business entity. The Committee therefore proposes that it be sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is a need to comment on this matter, please write down. Eugene Kirilchuk is transferring the right to speak to Hanushtak, please. Then there's Vladimir Kaplienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen! Look closely at this project, the first part sends it to legislation, "in cases that are provided for by legislation." I think the other part should be looking at the same case. But first, who is the Antimonopoly Committee? Here I agree with the head of the committee that the Antimonopoly Committee should look at the subject of monopolies. The second position is the cost of implementation and so on and so forth. The question is simple: Is there a ransom in the manufacturer of the product? Is this really how they took it, and then all the other things that the Antimonopoly Committee itself is supposed to be done at the expense of the state budget? So what do we see? We can see that there's another one that's been added to a bunch of controlling organizations that's been hanging on to our manufacturer, and it turns out that it's somehow painted. This general rule goes on to say, as Peter I used to say, "no payments to the foresters, they're going to earn their wages under their feet." Similarly, the Antimonopoly Committee, which is no longer a brother, has now decided to have direct access to business structures. I think it's wrong for everyone to do what he's told, even by his name. Although we now have a bunch of drafts out there that we don't understand, which people are interested in, and what ministry is dealing with one or the other? Think about our projects that have now gone from 218 to 223. That's why such a project can't be adopted, especially if the presentation is really offensive to the higher legislature.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u70	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u71	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill in the first reading. Of course, today the committee has talked a lot about what is wrong with this bill. Similarly, the appeal to the Antimonopoly Committee may not be entirely appropriate. And giving additional rights to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the order of these removals, these goods, or samples, or even raw materials, also looks a little strange. It also seems a bit strangely responsible for the unfair competition referred to in this bill, in particular in article 26. But we're sure that this can all be corrected for second reading, because the question is raised really right and the language here is not that there are monopolies to fight against the Antimonopoly Committee. And the problem is, in society, there's a common monopoly on counterfeiting all the goods, including our consumption, that are on the stand. Look, a competitor who wants to take over the market, but he can't do it because of direct competition. He's actually alone, violating GOSTs, DBNs, violating DSTUs, or technical conditions, he's reducing the percentage of those or other parts of this raw material, in this product, writes quite another. In this way, it misleads those who consume the product. Well, who's got to deal with it? Today, in fact, we do not see an end to it in the state. So let's do something. We're going to support this bill, we think it's completely, in principle, positive. And even though the state is in charge of paying and selecting these products for an expert study, there is nothing wrong with it. Because if it's at any other cost, it's never going to be. It's not enough to remind me that government spending will be compensated in the event of evidence that these enterprises are being misused in this direction. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future supports this bill in its first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u72	Fedun, faction of the Party of the Regions. He's refusing? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is also appropriate to return to work. The proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9553]] Please vote on the return of the subject of the right to legal aid. [[11:34:45]] For-35 I guess I'll have to lay the groundwork. Thank you for letting me know. Since the decision has not been taken, I must put to the vote a proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve measures against unfair competition. [[Registration number 9553]] [[11:35:25]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. So, dear fellows, there was a wise offer at first, you burned it. A draft of the Limited Responsibilities Act is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 5507]] The Committee suggests that we consider a simplified procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:36:03]] For 211 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Sherschun, co-rapporteur, Vice-President of the Committee of Jury Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u73	Honorable Head, respected colleagues, today’s arrangement for the creation and operation of the mergers of business subjects is governed by the Master Code of Ukraine, the Civil Code, and the Business Act. However, these limited - liability documents provide a fairly schematic view of how they regulate only a wide range of social relations. Thus, there are still gaps in the legal regulation of the area, such as the formation and cessation of limited liability societies, the formation of governments, the creation of statutory capital, the withdrawal of participants from society, and so forth. So in order to remove the gaps mentioned above, I propose a draft law for consideration by the Supreme Council. Unlike the regulation that exists today, the adoption of the Restricted Society Act will allow for the updating of the outdated standards of modern law, detailing them, protecting the rights and interests of members of society. The draft law provides for the definition of the concept of "a limited liability society", the order of its creation, the rights and duties of members of the boards of associations, the legal regime of property, the conditions and grounds for the withdrawal of the participant, the order of cessation of the activity. The implementation of the bill in its practical application will not affect the spending and income of the state or local budgets. The adoption of the bill will ensure the full implementation by Ukrainian citizens of entrepreneurial activities and allow interested persons to fully implement their initiatives. The main scientific and expert administration and the Cabinet of Ministers make comments. But they can be taken into account when drafting the bill for second reading. So please support this bill and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u74	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Yuri Voropeiev, Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! The bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy on 21 February this year. And the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it on first reading as a basis. He has comments. There are comments and the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are comments from the Chief Expert Office. But for the first time, this bill is trying to create a coherent, unified structure of such an organ, an economic entity in our country as a Society with limited responsibilities. As you recall, you and I passed the Shareholder Society Act. And that's where the issues were settled. These societies, with limited liability, are currently regulated by several regulations, several laws of Ukraine. Including the Civil Code, including the Economic Society Act and so on. And for the first time, there's this, well, attempt by a separate law to settle everything. Our proposal to support it and further refine it is expected until the second reading, removing all necessary comments, including experts and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u76	Do you have everyone? Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to speak on this matter? Please sign up. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then there's Stanislaw Arzevite.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u77	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I'll say literally a few words about this bill. You can absolutely agree with the analysis that was made by the representative of the Professional Committee, Deputy Voropeyev. Clearly, there are certain, perhaps inappropriate, perhaps questionable questions. But really the attempt in one law to bring together completely, comprehensively, completely those issues that concern limited liability societies, and we know that their huge numbers in Ukraine are certainly positive. And I think it's just a case where we take care of those thousands of people for whom the adoption of this law is positive, it's going to be convenient, it's going to be useful for use, for activity, because all the standards are going to be comprehensively stated in this bill. So in the first reading you can really accept it and the faction of the People's Party will support this bill by its colleague, Mikli Shershun, so that it can really be worked out by the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u78	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u79	The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" will not support this bill and for what reasons. Well, first of all, of course, who knows Russian legislation will conclude that this bill is almost an exact copy of Russian legislation. You know ours. Although Russia and a progressive country are on some issues, legislation cannot be identified. Well, let me give you some examples. There's a lot of terminology that doesn't exist in our legislation at all. For example, I find the most vivid example in this bill when it proposes to create banking institutions in the form of a T.O., or a society. Well, we know that we've been through this before, and our legislation allows banking institutions to be created solely in the form of a public equity company or a cooperative bank. I mean, we're going back. I don't understand why this bill uses terminology like "autonomic formations." Well, of course, there's only one autonomy in Crimea. I don't understand, is it, in Zacharpatt, that we have to re-create some of our Russian autonomy? I don't understand why things like this are used in legislation. Of course, if you read again the conclusion of scientific expertise, you'll see that there's a complete discrepancy with the existing laws that we've passed with you. So, of course, it has to be sent to the author's refinements, reconcile him, get out of the Russian version, look at Ukrainian legislation, apply his proposals to these standards, and then submit a new version of the Good Law on Responsibilities. So the suggestion to get the author back to work on his initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee's offering to take it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office recommends that a bill be sent for further elaboration. It is up to the vote to propose to the committee first on the adoption as the basis of the draft Act on Restricted Associations. [[Registration number 5507]] Please vote. [[11:44:08]] For 212 The decision is not taken. A motion to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further processing is put to the vote. [[Registration number 5507]] Please vote. [[11:44:33]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act is under review. [[on Homeless Citizens]] The committee suggests that we consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:45:08]] For 224 Decision taken. The reporter is National Deputy Vasil Hara. The Coroner is the head of the committee of Sergey Maybeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, it is unfortunate that the Cabinet of Ministers has never understood the meaning of this law. I know he wasn't adopted today, but I want to tell you a little bit about him and his history. In 2009, our committee held a round table on homeless citizens and street children. And the Ministry of the Interior and the welfare institutions of the homeless have asked us to draft such a bill, and we have prepared it. What's the point? Two positions. First. Harmonization of the Housing Fund Social Assignment Act with the provisions of the Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children Act and the elimination of disagreement between them. And the second rule. Responsibilities to local authorities to issue duplicate identification cards to citizens who do not have apartments that are registered. This is the very simple and specific meaning of this bill. But it is clear that he will not be adopted today. Therefore, please vote on a formal basis and send it to the urn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u82	Please, Sergey Maybeard, head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Regional Policy has reviewed several times in its meetings a bill amending the Law on the Housing Fund for Social Use, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputies Marouschenko and Hara. [[Registration number 4109]] The bill aims to harmonize some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Housing Fund and the Social Protection Frameworks of Homeless Citizens and Street Children laws with a view to identifying more clearly the poor and street people requiring social services by the specialized budgetary institutions concerned. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office recommends that the criterion of “poverty” should not be excluded from those laws, but that it should be defined and that the right to social protection of such a category of citizens should be determined in the light of their material situation, and considers that the bill should be submitted for further elaboration. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following its consideration on first reading, that the right of the legislative initiative be returned to the subjects for finalization. [[Registration number 4109]] Please support the Committee's decision and the recommendation of the Chief Executive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u84	Yes, dear colleagues, sign up for the discussion. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vizevski, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u85	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". In fact, we've been looking at this bill, and as the rapporteurs have already said, the initiators of this bill, it's actually quite technical and it's kind of the things that the scientific and expert department of the Supreme Council is about, you can count on the second reading. That's why this bill could be adopted. He would address quite a number of social issues directly that could be resolved in places that could be addressed directly by local authorities. And that would remove the social tension for that category of citizens who, in different places of life, find themselves outside the line that they don't currently have the ability to write, and in fact, they can't use their rights as citizens in the future. So I would even suggest that I accept it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u86	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Bondarenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u87	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, the problem that has been solved needs a legislative solution, since those trends that are in society today cannot help but disturb us. Increasing numbers of homeless people, especially their concentration in large cities, sometimes leads to what we have, well, cuts are very serious into social and declassified elements. And it's going to be more and more. Loss of employment -- and for today's government, that's a very strong trend -- is the loss of housing, because the legal protection of citizens' housing rights is virtually lacking; the moral condition of society when children take their homes away from their parents sometimes leads to the fact that a large number of people are on the street. They can't legalize because you can't get a passport, documents lost. And so today we have a lot of this state of society where criminogenicity is just going to flourish. So I wouldn't reject it, just like Kabmin did, and this bill needs to be considered and approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Because of the policies of today’s government, soon the entire country — millions of Ukrainian citizens who are brought into the pen — will be homeless, will be deprived of their means of livelihood. As a result, people do not have the means to pay for the utility and maintain their apartments, so they go to the street. I want to give you a specific example. There is a family in Kiev. Alla Burtova, mother of 6 children, lives in Kiev on Komarov Street. This heroin mother, six kids are thrown out of a two-bedroom apartment with a total area of 40 square meters. That is why I would like to ask the city administration, Prime Minister of Ukraine, immediately. Please find an opportunity and provide housing for this woman, get rid of the abuse she is subject to today, this woman and her six young children. And such families are thousands and thousands in Ukraine. Why? Because the state government lives on the housefronts, and the mother of six children is thrown out on the street, you don't give up an apartment -- I'm bringing her to the house of Azarov, I'm putting her there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. The main scientific and expert office holds the same opinion in its conclusions. So I'd like to have your attention. I'll put the committee's proposal to the vote. If it is not supported, then the proposal to adopt the bill will be voted on as a basis. No objections? Therefore, by voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[Registration number 4109]] [[11:52:42]] For-42 The decision is not taken. There is a proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for voting. [[11:53:07]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. The draft Law on Basic Principles for the Implementation and Functioning of the Single State System for the Monitoring of Production, Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payments for Fuel and Energy Resources and Municipal Services is under review, [[Registration number 9572]] Committee proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[11:53:45]] For 222 Decision taken. Jaroslav Suhi will report a bill from the National Deputies Group, and Sergey Maybeard will speak from the Co-Reporting Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, your consideration is presented by the draft Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Implementation and Functioning of the Single State System for the Monitoring of Production, Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payment for Fuel Energy Resources and Municipal Services. I want to remind you all, this law is not new. In 2007, the working group that drafted this law, together with scientists from the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, led our country, unfortunately, today's late national deputy, Petrosov Valerij Albertovich. The group of coauthors included Ukrainian national deputies Qibida, Shkutak, Suhi, and some others. So, directly on this basis, on the basis of a 2007 work with scientists at the National Academy of the Bill, a federal law on the State Information System of the Fuel and Energy Complex was passed in December 2011 in Russia. As far as Ukraine is concerned, there has never been an objective national energy balance here in all years of independence. This is due to the absence in the country of a permanent state tool for collecting, stockpiling and generalizing information that needs to be used as reliable official information for operational analysis of the state of the economic sectors. The state must recognize and regulate its own resources at a scientifically sound level. The adoption of the bill will allow for the creation of the necessary conditions for the functioning of a state-wide tool for shaping and predicting Ukraine's energy balance. In turn, it will allow for a significant reduction in the energy efficiency of GDP in a short time. Today, the artificial energy efficiency of metallurgy, such as production, exceeds vacation prices. Clearly, this affects not only the competitiveness of domestic production but also social policy. This is especially felt by the least protected sections of the population. Citizens are forced to pay, not the actual size and quality of the resource, but the mythical standards of consumption. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u92	Thank you. Sergey Maybeard, head of the committee, tell me about the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee considered the bill on 8 February 2012. The objective of the project was to establish the right, economic and institutional framework for the implementation and operation of a single State system for monitoring production, supply, transport, use and payment for fuel and energy resources and utilities. The Chief Research and Expert Office believes that it is appropriate to send the bill for further refinement. At the same time, the Office considers that the establishment of a separate State structure with the status of the central executive body should be considered in the context of existing State institutions. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the bill would have an impact on the budget indicators, increase the budget costs associated with the establishment of a new body. The Committee on European Integration proposes to adopt the draft as a basis, since it does not conflict with the law of the European Union and complies with the energy security directives. The Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry, the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction of Housing and Utilities, the State Agency for Energy Efficiency, Energy Conservation, the State Statistical Service considers the adoption of the bill inappropriate and the proposal to establish an authorized body with certain functions that duplicate the powers of a number of central executive bodies. In general, while supporting the authors' idea of implementing the DMS, the Committee, taking into account the need for further refinement and harmonization with governmental bodies, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the draft legislative initiative be returned to the subjects for finalization in the first reading. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u94	Thank you, too. Please sign up for the performance. Dear colleagues, the proposal to complete this consideration and then announce a recess. Is there no objection? Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Then Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u95	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! As the people’s deputy Dreych correctly pointed out, this bill has a great history. And this story started not in 2007 but earlier, when, in fact, people who are looking at these two basic sectors of the economy, such as utilities and energy, came up with an understanding of what can't be predicted and planned, to do strategic studies in this area without having a unified analysis. Because it was rightly said that every ministry, every department, has its own method of calculating tariffs, a certain, even, let's say, manipulation of tariffs and so on. And so if this is the only state position that these authors and monitoring developers will be responsible for, seriously answer, obviously, then you can ask them and then you can do some positive things that I'm going to say right now. What I like about this bill is, more specifically, it's positive, it's not designed, let's say, not from the ceiling. In fact, it's designed by scientists, the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. It was developed as the Institute of Economics and Forecasting, and it was developed by the Institute of Cybernetics and other departments. And this legislation was tested at the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. I think that this is a positive example for the further cooperation of the legislator and the true scientists. And what I think is positive is, in principle, it's in the projected results, in the projections that are being made. They're writing about the authors, anyway, that the energy of the state's GDP can be reduced by 30 percent as a minimum as a result of availability.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u96	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u97	As a result of the presence and functioning of this clear, single monitoring system. And the second moment, it's very important. How do you expect investment in the utilities if those who want to invest don't know where to put it, who will calculate it, how to calculate it, and how will this monitoring work? That's a good idea, that's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u98	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u99	May I have a word with Vladimir Dmitri Bondarenko, my minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u100	Bondarenko, please, four minutes. Four minutes, it's also written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u101	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. According to the conclusions given by the expert service, as well as certain information in Ukraine, there is a lack of structure, a Minregiobudu, which deals with the problem of housing and utilities, that is to say, order in this area. This is about what this bill really provides for very serious and very necessary things for the state. Let's take some indicators like the service standard. Who today can say that there is standard water of 55 degrees, 75 degrees, or just tap water that has a red tentacles and is considered hot or warm? No one can say. The standard should be the base, the counter that will then count should only count the standard hot water. The heating can only be paid when it is standard and provides a comfortable, temperature - controlled apartment. Today, no one wants to make matters right. Why? Because that's how you cheat everything you want and how much you want. In particular, I have high suspicion that in certain cities, including Kiev, water is taken from not the sources that are said to be, for example, water that needs to be cleaned, but from the beautiful wells that are under the heel. She doesn't need a clean-up, and the money to clean up is cheating, and I'm sure of that. Next. What Is an Account? The bill and requirements for a citizen or a legal person to pay for a service may be presented only if there is an objective accounting of the service and when a person realizes that everything on the counter has been consumed. Because there are no problems with the electric energy counters. I went out into the hallway or I looked at it, I paid it, I didn't pay you off, and there's no arguments, there's no cases in the courts. At the same time, a lot of court cases where people want to prove that they got this service is not standard, not accounting when they say that they pay for the number of citizens who are registered in the apartment when they say that the area of the apartment is being paid, not hot air. I mean, it's a specially designed system that confuses everything. They went even further in Kiev. The citizens of China pay for their energy consumption. Gigacalorie calculation. Sorry, the counters all count cubic meters of water consumed, and here they pay for gigacalorie. I asked the Institute of Communion and received an answer that one gigacalorie warms up 18 cubic feet [18 cubic meters] of water, and I apologize, 22.5 cubic feet [22.5 cu m] of water. Tell me, she's turning 18. And only 18 went through the counter, already paid for the gigacalorie. 4.5 cubes won't get it. It's in the manufacturing field. We're moving on. Here too, order is required. At the stage of transport, up to 18 percent of service, hot water, cold water, and heat is lost from the manufacturer to the consumer. In Kiev, for example, there is a boiler that works and heats at 11.5 miles [11.5 km] of South Borstagowka, and from that heat output is gone, and it needs to be heated in place. So transport needs to be optimized, and in order to optimize it, you need to know where we're losing and so on. I think there are problems in other parts of this if you have a large complex. And so that proposal that was made today is about production, transportation, pay. What is a tariff? Who forms it? What's going on in there? He needs to be cleansed of things that are not right for him. That's why the law is necessary. The fact that he will not pass through today is almost understandable, for he was not of any advantage to any authority, and the present one is all the more. Because this is now being privatized to individual people, to individual structures, and to order citizens to understand what to pay for and what not to pay for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u102	Yes, please, from unregistered factions, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies! Please see if every day you are considering drafts and then proposals from the government about their deviations, which are the authors of even national MPs from most. But actually, Patton Boris Evgenovich, academic, president of the Academy of Sciences, Hayes Valeriy Mihajlovich, academic, director of the Institute of Economics, and so I can continue a number of these authors. I think the previous speaker said brilliantly, why don't you want to do that? Because you don't want to provide a percentage payment for fuel-energy resources, just for end-users. You don't want to take the load off the budgets of all levels, you need a lookout. You don't want to take off the social tension at the expense of economically sound tariffs, you don't want to lower these.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u104	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u105	You don't want to lower these tariffs by 35-40 percent as you get here. You do not want to create transparent market mechanisms. As a result, this law radically changes the system and situation in the country, and it needs to be adopted in the first reading, even before the holidays, as a whole. I call for a change in the orientation of love for the Fatherland, for Ukraine, and for the people who inhabit it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u106	Please, Caplienne, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u107	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reform for the Future will vote in favour of this bill, we support it. But I would like to say a few words. First. We regret that our Energy Balance Act, which was voted on in this room, has not received such calls to maintain it. Although, I remind you, he was laying the groundwork for creating an energy balance in the state. In this bill on energy balance there's a reference, there's actually a reference to it, even some of these. But we insist that the second reading in "Transitional Positions" of this EDM Act, as stated here in our terminology, be accompanied by the need for the adoption of the Energy Balance Act of Ukraine at the same time. Since this is the law that does not regulate this issue, note this. He says what to do, how to create institutions, by the way, with violations of the Constitution of Ukraine or the Rules of Procedure, the Budget Code, but to create a new institution like Russia when it adopted a corresponding bill in 2011 on the creation of an appropriate system. We support him, but in the second reading, we will insist, without it we will not give the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u108	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the draft Law on Basic Principles for the Implementation and Functioning of the Single State System of Monitoring, Production, Supply, Transport, Consumption and Payments for Fuel and Energy Resources, Municipal Services. [[Registration number 9572]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:09:15]] For 316 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party - 182, BUT - 41, Our Ukraine - 17, Communists - 25, People's Party - 20, Reforms - 19, non-fractional - 12. Yes, dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. We are considering a draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs. [[on the free burial of parents and widows of fallen soldiers]] [[Registration number 4283]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:42:05]] For 135 Not accepted. Please report to Konovaluk Valerius Ilych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u110	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! I will report this very important bill very briefly. I think it really has more moral goals and meaning than the government spending that these categories of people have. This bill is designed in connection with the numerous appeals made by members of the fighting in the territories of other states, members of the families of the fallen soldiers and veterans. He foresees the extension of the right to free burial of all those involved in hostilities and of the parents and widows of the fallen soldiers. Thus, the purpose of the bill is to produce modern legal support, according to which the State and society will be able to assume the responsibilities of families of potential breadwinners who have gone out of their lives. Sources of financing for appropriate ritual services are also identified. And it is certainly important to preserve the memory of the dead defenders of the homeland of all generations. Well, it's for the huge government spending, which is probably half of what the state spends on maintenance and acquisition of cars, furniture, equipment. It's about the social component of the bill. For families where the pension for widows and mothers of military personnel who died during hostilities is about 1,400 dollars. The adoption of this amendment will be a fundamental foundation. I realize that the main thing for us is to understand that a person who, in carrying out his duties, died in his own state, and parents who remain alone and cannot provide for themselves is to bury and pay some respect for the growth and formation of such a heroic person. I am convinced that this issue must nevertheless be sufficiently a matter of serious concern. The Council’s fairness should be said that some laws of Ukraine have been amended to bury members of the fighting and to protect members of their families socially, which lays down the conditions for the burial of all members of the fighting at the expense of the budget. The bill was introduced in March 2009. In some parts it has lost its relevance but has not lost its relevance. The problems of understanding the support, the social support of those who have really lost their breadwinners. So I'm asking, taking into account the conclusion of the scientific expertise, the committee responsible for sending this bill to work, and together with the government, we've identified that part of the meagre budget calculation, to my, well, let's say, in my opinion, it's not more than 3-5 million dollars to provide these people with some kind of social support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy, Sergey Fedotovich Majbeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u112	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Construction, Urban Development, Housing and Regional Policy has on several occasions before its meetings considered a bill amending article 14 of the Law on Funeral and Funeral Affairs, introduced by the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Konovaluk. [[Free funerals of fathers and widows of fallen warriors]] [[Registration number 4283]] The bill is intended to extend the right of funerals, burials to all participants in hostilities, as well as to fathers and widows of soldiers who have died by budget. The Chief Research and Expert Office points out that, under current Ukrainian legislation, the burial of deceased single citizens has already been carried out since 1.07.2009 from local budgets, and that it is necessary to obtain financial and economic justification for the costs associated with its adoption, and considers that the bill would be useful for further elaboration. The Committee on Rules, MPs and Parliamentary Activities notes that the bill has been introduced in violation of the requirements of the Supreme Council Rules. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Persons with Disabilities recommends that the bill be submitted for finalization. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill, registration number 4283, following its consideration on first reading to return the right of legislative initiative to the subject for finalization. Please support the decision of the Committee and the recommendation of the Chief Executive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Shall we vote or discuss? Yeah, now, now. Who insists? Gashuk, one. Nobody insists anymore? Yes, two. Please, Hasuk, please. Behind him is Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Reforms for the Future faction believes it is necessary to support the bill on the free burial of parents and widows of the fallen soldiers. [[No. 4283]] Yes, for example, let us take the city of Kiev. According to the Kyiv City State Administration’s ritual service administration, the minimum number of necessary services for burial in Kiev in 2011 amounted to about 4,000 dollars. In 2011, the city budget provided about 1 million dollars for these services. Although one of the deputies of the city council of Kiev at one time, the head of the interim review committee for the study of the situation in the field of ritual services in Kiev pointed out that. The commission appealed to the relatives of the dead and called the actual prices for funerals higher. The funeral costs in Berkowitz amounted to about $5,000, and the average burial cost about $20,000 in the Fairy Cemetery. So, based on the real sums to be paid for ritual services, one thing is clear: it's not cheap enough for our citizens. And that's why the Reform for the Future faction will support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Vladimir Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u116	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have no comment on the bill, but I see that colleague Sergey Maybeard reported the bill and the opinion of the committee he presented. As far as I know, all committees work in Ukrainian, and the texts of their conclusions are in English. So please ask those who report from the committee to comply with the law and the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u117	Cibenka, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Communist faction Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, you can listen to all the objections that have been heard today, including the denial of scientific expertise, in which there is some kind of headache over financial and economic justification, although there are representatives of the government, there are other reasons to be heard, and they have a right to life, but there is a problem, there is a topic that needs to be addressed. This subject is also covered by the Law on the Everlasting Victory of the Great National War. We have struggled for a long time to allow the disabled to be buried at the expense of the State. This applies to the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection, and this applies to the Funeral Affairs Act. So I want to express one concern that by making a change to one law, we didn't make this law so that it wouldn't work. But nevertheless, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Funeral and Funeral Law. [[on the free burial of parents and widows of fallen soldiers]] [[Registration number 4283]] Please vote. [[12:51:25]] For 105 Not supported. The factions. Region Party 30, BUT 26, Our Ukraine 5, Communists 25, The People's Party didn't vote, Reforms 18, non-fractional 1. There is a proposal to direct the subject of a legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. [[12:51:59]] For 266 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[about renting rent rates in public-state river basins]] [[Registration number 9461]] The proposal is to consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:52:32]] For 205 Offer supported. Reports the author of the bill, Vladimir Andrievich Danilenko. Prepare Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u120	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to a bill designed to create preconditions for the interest of local self - government authorities in ensuring the effective use and preservation of water objects located in their territories. Today, there are many problems related to the formation of local budgets. One such problem is the setting of effective rates for rents on or outside rural, rural councils. Costs that could come from renting bets are a real additional source of local budgets, ensuring the interest of local governments in sorting them out and using them rationally. This income is hardly reflected in the local self-government budgets, resulting in the absence of local self-government authorities to properly control and motivate the provision of the above mentioned water in the lease. To address this situation, I consider it appropriate to exclude from the revenue composition of the district budgets, which are included in the determination of the amount of inter-budget transfers, the rented rates in the public-state rivers and the inclusion of them in the income pools, which are based on local self-government budgets and taken into account in determining the amount of inter-budgetary transfers. In particular, the bill is designed to amend the specific rules of the Budget Code, exclude from the income of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district and district budgets, which are included in the determination of the amount of inter-budgetary transfers, the cost of leased rents in the state-owned rivers. [[Article 66 BCU]] The adoption of this law will contribute to the increase of funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u121	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u122	For regional development, local infrastructure upgrades, and their interest in ensuring the efficient use and conservation of water objects located in their areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u123	Thank you. The committee is headed by the Committee of Budgets, Valérie Baranov. Please. Bill 9461.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the Budget Committee of February 8th considered a bill amending the Budget Code by this number. And the result of the proposed changes will be the reallocation of resources between district budgets and local self-government budgets. Since each budget's income is balanced with its expenditure authority, there will be an increase in the levelling of government budgets and reductions in local self-government budgets. This bill does not achieve the objective of increasing local budgets for regional development. And since it is not about expanding the sources of the development budget, it is about the revenues that are aimed at implementing delegated powers, in addition to the fact that according to article 51 of the Water Code, leasers of public water objects, including stakes in public-state rivers, are the Government and local public administrations, so the rents are paid to the renter’s budget. Allowing local self - government authorities to decide for themselves on the issue of renting bets requires, above all, an additional legislative arrangement for leases. The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill. The main scientific and expert office made a comment to the bill and suggested that it be returned to work. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budget Questions adopted the following decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a bill number 9461 that subjects should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the discussion on this bill. Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank my colleague, Vladimir Andrievich Danilenko, for trying to settle this issue. Indeed, the question of bets is a painful question for rural areas and this question is a question of disunity. Why? Because the provisions of the Water and Earth Code are in fact taken from the community to manage their stakes. Even though they're playing the game. Although the communities have created these stakes. Today, this is all leased to the district government. Often, district government administrations, without consulting local communities at all, rent them to private individuals who deprive the inhabitants of a village of access to water, fishing, and others. This causes a huge opposition. In general, the vast majority of the local communities today do not understand if even a given water object is being leased, whether these costs are coming and what they are improving for the local community or for a particular object. I can agree with those comments of the budget committee that said, but the question is serious. In fact, we need to make changes to the Land, Water and Budget Code and channel all of these costs from rental rates, really, into the budgets of the local councils, and that would be their interest, not the interest of individual heads of administrations who, for a certain fee, rent them out in the first place, are completely unknown to whom. I think that in the first reading, we can keep working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u127	Volodya Caplienne, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u128	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The representatives of the MP group Reforms for the Future, unfortunately, will not support this bill for technical reasons. [[With the exclamation mark!]] I'd like all of us to really see this problem a lot wider than we are. Yes, indeed, the village suffers. There is no local production today. The village lives at the expense of small ones, you know, like the remains of tiny little ones from the table at the subsidy level, or the village head at the general meeting has to raise funds there by 15-20 bracelets to fix the fence at the cemetery or, for example, fill the hospital register. [[rural]] This is a real painting that's in the country today. For example, in the village of Vasilyvka in the district of Anddus region, when the stakes were located in the village, the village actually benefited from this. And when he was replaced with something red, the village lost that opportunity. Yes, indeed, the problem is, the rural budget needs to be filled. But the honourable subjects of the legislative initiative, the honourable fellow national MPs who submitted the bill, should not change that way. The Water Code and the Earth Code need to be amended, particularly in 51 articles, where another procedure is needed to transfer the right to rent contracts to rural, village councils for renting. And then, really, this money is going to go here. We won't do it any other way. You made the right offer today. But until the second reading, it will not be corrected. It is because the Act in force on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for a 116-article ban on any amendment that is not covered by the main body of the law, which has been submitted and adopted in the main edition. So we urge you to go back to work. We're willing to put our shoulders up, give our advice, our advice, maybe even sign this bill, introduce and vote, because such bills need states. But no mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u129	It's from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u130	I can't, I can't. Please, I can't. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill should be returned to pre-work. Then I will now make a proposal to the committee after that, if the Supreme Council does not support it, the proposal for adoption will be considered on the basis of this bill. I am voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-operation. Registration number 9461. [[13:03:09]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending part of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government on the Assignment of Disability Pensions is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is the national MP of Ukraine, Mikola Kulczynski. The spokesman is the first deputy head of the Olga Bodnar Committee. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[13:03:47]] For 203 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u131	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill is designed to eliminate a variety of approaches to the same phenomenon in the Law on State Service and the Law on Local Self - Government. So this is about article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government, which leads to the same approach to the State Service Act regarding the assignment of pensions to the disabled of the first and second groups who are working, retired, have 10 years of service and have retired from local self-government. It is about applying to them the same principle that applies to these categories of people in the Law on State Service. That is, no matter where the disability is acquired, they also had a civil servant's pension if their position falls under the list of such positions. The law is not complicated, it is simple, but it regulates the issue that has hurt hundreds and hundreds of people with disabilities in the first and second groups who have worked in local governments. It's going to cost the state budget. The government budget will be about 2.5 to 2.7 million dollars. As the project was registered, the same similar, very similar bill was passed by the government. And the government notes the introduction of this law in the case of its adoption since 2015. I'm not against it personally. As a result, I ask the Supreme Council to support not only on the ground but also on the whole that the law will take effect in 2015 and decide on the issue of the pensions of the first and second groups of persons with disabilities, employees of local self-government bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u132	Microphone, come on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u133	The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government supports the bill. I would like the people's deputies to support him by voting for him as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u134	Please, Olga Bodnar, the first deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u135	Dear national deputies, honourable chairman, invited to the meetings! At its meeting on 4 April this year, the Committee considered a revised draft of the Act amending part of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government on the appointment of invalidity pensions given by National Deputy Kulczynski. [[by registration number 9453]] The bill was introduced with the aim of eliminating the contradictions between the provisions of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government and the State Service on the pension provision of officials of local self-government bodies and government officials of the first and second groups. The essence of the problem that needs to be solved with the adoption of the bill is that under the State Service Act, persons who are recognized as disabled by the first and second groups during periods of public service have a minimum of 10 years of service. Also recognized by persons with disabilities not during the service period, they have at least 10 years of service as a civil servant in positions assigned to the categories of public official. At the same time, only persons who are recognized as disabled by the first and second groups during the period of their presence in local self-government bodies and have at least 10 years of service in these bodies are entitled under the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. It is estimated that the subject of the legislative initiative will need an additional budget of 2.7 million dollars a year to implement the bill. According to the Budget Committee's conclusion on the bill, the Ministry of Finance supports the bill and notes that the implementation of the bill will be provided within the limits of the expenditure foreseen in the State budget to pay the difference between the pension defined in accordance with the Local Government Service Act and the general purpose of the pension. Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u136	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u137	Recommends that Parliament adopt the bill on the basis of which it is based, and notes that it is also supported by the Ministry of Justice and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. The Committee on Legal Policy concludes that the bill states that the legislative proposal corresponds to the relevant provisions of the State Service Act and is based on an appropriate constitutional legal basis. The main scientific and expert administration has no fundamental objection to the adoption of this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u139	The Committee on State Building and Local Government recommends the adoption of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Who will speak on this bill? Please sign in. Yes, can I have your name, please? Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u141	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I want to thank Mikola Grigorovich. Indeed, this bill removes contradictions between the Law on Service in Local Self - Government Authorities and the State Service concerning the appointment of a civil servant to persons with disabilities in the first and second groups, irrespective of the term of disability for the appointment of a civil servant’s pension. If there's an expert estimate and a sum of 2.7 million, I don't think it's the sum that such a bill doesn't support. We'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u142	Thank you. Uljana Mistpane, faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u143	Dear National Deputies! This bill is essential for local self - government workers. It will eliminate the contradictions between the two Public Service Acts and the service of local self-government authorities regarding the full identity of the same issue, namely the appointment of a disability pension. This problem in time is out - of - date. Pensioners and local government officials have long been waiting for our decision. Therefore, the bill cannot have political differences, for it improves the pension of local government officials. Of course, if this law is to be passed, we will need to set up funds in the State budget in 2013. That is why the Faction "BUT"- "Paternity" will support this bill and I also urge the overwhelming majority to vote in favour of this bill both on the basis and on the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Yuri Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u145	I'd like to give the floor to Zarubinsky's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u146	Oleg Zarubin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u147	Thank you. Oleg Zarubin Faction of the People's Party. Respectful colleagues stressed the existence of contradictions in two laws, valid laws. Well, the question is that the existence of this contradiction just makes it possible to interpret the disability pension differently. And in practice, really, the presence of this conflict between two legislative acts on one topic and another makes it possible, let's say, in this interpretation, to walk in the corridor at a lower rate. So there's a situation where the same people, the same people, with the same conditions, the first and the third groups, can be in different situations, in different circumstances, with different pensions, which are basically unfair. Therefore, the legislative initiative is good and humane. And I would like to point out that it's not often, but in this bill, the financial and economic justification is very clear. So we see a number of people who, if they adopt this bill as a law, will fall under it. And indeed, the calculations show that the number of persons with disabilities in the first and third groups of local self - government workers will increase by no more than 10 percent. That is, the subject of the legislative initiative, Mr. Kulczynski, made it clear that it was about 100 people. I think that's the step if we vote for this bill, which will lead to more justice among local self-government workers, about their pension for disability, because it's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Gennady the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u149	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to prove the position of the MP's reform group for the future. We will, of course, support this bill because it is social, because there is really no conflict between the two laws -- the Service Act in the Local Self-Government Authorities and the Public Service Act. In fact, the question is about people with disabilities -- and the third group. They're doing the same kind of work, they're serving the state. But somehow, the fact that laws regulate this issue in different ways is that they get different pensions. Therefore, of course, according to the Constitution, the principle of social justice should be brought to a level. We will support this bill because it is right and necessary for the state and for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and scientific management is of the same opinion. The proposal of the adoption committee is based on the draft Act amending article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Governmental Authorities on the appointment of invalidity pensions. [[Registration number 9453]] [[13:15:16]] For-144 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 12, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 39, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 24, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 5. I'm betting on voting for the bill to be re-reading the proposal. I'm betting on the vote on re-reading. I don't work on directions for sure. [[13:16:07]] For 310 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft decree on the assignment of the city of Putivl to the area of honour of the city of guerrilla glory is being announced. [[Registration number 9675]] Please vote. [[13:16:37]] For 215 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Danilenko. The reporter is Vasil Demchischen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u151	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Danilenko, Sumstina. Your opinion is on the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the assignment of Putivl to the Suma area of honor called the City of guerrilla glory. On May 26, the whole of Ukraine celebrated 125th anniversary of the birth of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, one of the organizers of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine during the Great Nativity War of Sidor Artemovich Kovpak. The first volunteers of the legendary Travelling Party were the people of Putivel. It was near the city that partisans and subversives of the Suma region began to operate. Today, Putill has become a small provincial town with a population of about 16,000 and is the district center of the district of Suma. After staying away from the railway, the city does not have a strong industry. Such cities are commonly called small cities. But it is these small cities that preserve our great history for future generations. The city of Putivl should occupy a worthy city in the cities of Ukraine, since the first months of the Great War of Homeland entered the chronicle of the most important war events. The award of the city of Putill to the honor of the City of guerrilla glory is one way to perpetuate the immortal feat of the people of Putill, who became one of the first partisan defenders of the Great War. In view of the fact that the question of assigning the city of Putivl to guerrilla glory is one of the legislatively unregulated, while the President of Ukraine has awarded a higher degree of recognition of the name Hero of Ukraine and other honours in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Rewards, whose effect on collective subjects such as the city of Putivl does not extend. I would like to point out that an imperative ban on the decision taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u152	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u153	There is no place of guerrilla glory about the award of the city of Putill. Therefore, I ask you to support the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u154	Thank you. Basil Demčishen, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u155	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on 21 March 2012, the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government reviewed the draft Decision on the Assignment of the City of Putill of the Suma Region of Honor of the City of guerrilla Glory, submitted by the People's Deputy Volodymyr Danilenko. During the discussion, the members of the committee took a look at the issue of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Rules, which concluded and examined the conformity of the draft Rules and the legislation of our State. In his conclusion, the committee noted that the stand-up in the draft Decree on "According to the City of Honor" was not in line with the ideology of the current Ukrainian legislation on State awards. Because according to the Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, state awards, particularly honorary titles, are set up for personal merit before Ukraine exclusively citizens. It is further stated that before the Rules there must be a decree. There should be financial and economic justifications. It's not there either. Therefore, during the committee’s discussion, the committee admitted that the draft decree needed further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Yes, Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u157	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Well, actually, I just have a question. I don’t know, perhaps it will be rhetorical or to the subject of the legislative initiative. According to the context, well, who knows the history of the Great Native War, World War II, can confirm that the guerrilla movement in Travelling was really intense and effective, you can say. It's not a question of meaning, it's a question of form. Ukraine's legislation, the current legislation of Ukraine, does not provide for the allocation to the population of this title, which is proposed: "The City of guerrilla glory". And the question I have is, what can be the legal consequences after a decision is made. What will lead if this is not defined by legislation? Maybe the authors of the legislative initiative go another way, if they think that such a term should be, that it should be regulated in Ukrainian legislation, then start with that. Otherwise, well, agree with what it's just going to be, it's going to get up in the air. Once again, there will be no legal consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u158	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u159	Thank you. The Communist faction. Peter Cibenko - Head of the Ukrainian Veterans Council Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, first of all, I want to say that the faction of the Ukrainian Company will support this bill. Secondly, I would like to point out that this bill has not only been discussed on the committee's profile in matters of local self-government. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons has also considered it, as it were, in the initial order, and unlike our colleagues from the local self-government committee, we support the idea of adopting this decision. You can find as many reasons as you want to not adopt this law. But I am absolutely convinced that this is one of the forms of the perpetuation of the Great Victory and the national feat of the Soviet guerrillas during the Great Homeland War. Indeed, this was vital and needed to be accepted. You know, one of our colleagues, one of the leaders of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once said that the Supreme Council was not wrong. In denying it, I want to say that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has probably made a mistake in its own time when it has not adopted the City of Military Power Act, because it is also a white form of perpetuating the national feat of the Great Homeland War. So everything at some point, one or the other, was not made, not provided for by valid legislation. If not foreseen, let us predict that we are the legislators to make these decisions. And I am absolutely convinced that there is great justice in what was set a few years ago, a day of guerrilla glory that was produced by a partisan flag, which, next to the standards of the fronts, is taking place on the day of the war holidays. Thus, the Ukrainian Company will be sure to back up the bill and invite its colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u160	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." The next one will be the Fedun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u161	It's the best thing Michael Kossov will do. Please give him your word. Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u162	Mikhail Kosov, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u163	Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Street. In my own time, I was dealing with the issue of State rewards and even drafted a draft of the Law on State Rewards. Regrettably, the Supreme Council’s composition at that time did not vote in favour of this law. Yet, there is a list of State rewards that the presidents of Ukraine enjoy. So in the list of the state awards, the definition of "city of guerrilla glory" doesn't exist, there is a "city-hero" and the "city of guerrilla glory" should be added there. And we would have introduced the concept of the City of Partisan Glory into this Law on State Rewards, and I would have nothing against the award of this title of Putill. I think the people of my generation read and eventually grew up in a book called The Pathile to the Carpathian. So there is such a famous city as Putovl, but there are also such famous places as Carpathians, such as the village of Carpathians as Kosmach. About Cosmach, our colleague, the First Call of the Supreme Council, Roman Ivanichuk, wrote about the Tetralogy and there are about the fights of UPA soldiers in Cosmach, who in fact created their partisan capital, the guerrilla republic. So maybe we, so to speak, if we honor the Travelling to Carpathian, we recognized the importance of Travelling in wartime, but we would also define Cosmach as a place where violent fighting took place.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u164	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the word is now with the Fedun. Is he refusing to speak? He's refusing. Question completed. Dear colleagues, perhaps we should, so let me suggest that I move in making a decision. Since the committee proposes that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned, I will put this proposal to the vote. If you don't support it, then the proposal will vote for acceptance in the first reading, and maybe then you'll have to enter 1 point: set up an honorary title in Ukraine -- "The City of Partisan Glory" and then 2 would be the logical point: assigning the city, if so. Well, otherwise it'll be hanged. So, one minute, then the vote goes in such a sequence, the discussion is over. First, the committee's proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. In case of non-support, a proposal for acceptance will be put to the vote on the basis of the clarification that I said. And then there's the committee thing. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am voting on the committee's proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 9675]] [[13:28:51]] For 264 Decision taken. Honourable National Deputies, I am announcing a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving legislation on the protection of economic competition]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[13:29:26]] For 202 Decision taken. The rapporteur and co-rapporteur is the deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, Irina Anatoliyevna Belousova. You have four minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u165	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! In order to prevent violations of the legislation protecting economic competition, the economic operators have the right to consult the Antimonopoly Committee in accordance with article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Economic Competition, in accordance with the recommendations on the compatibility of their actions with the provisions of this law, as well as article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition. By 2011, there had been a rule allowing operators to draw appropriate conclusions from all the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee, including the territorial departments. To date, only the Antimonopoly Committee, as the higher collegiate body in the committee’s system and the Administrative College of the Antimonopoly Committee, has the right to present the changes introduced by the Ukrainian Law of July 5, 2011. In practice, it was found that the changes that were adopted did not justify themselves but only worsened the conditions for obtaining conclusions by the owners. After all, Ukraine’s commodity markets have regional, district, district, urban geographical boundaries and economic operators operating in regional commodity markets and in various regions of Ukraine are forced to spend additional material resources to provide the Antimonopoly Committee with the necessary documents to draw conclusions on the appropriateness of their action to protect economic competition. The bill provides for the return to the competent and administrative colleges of the territorial departments of the authority to draw the above conclusions and thus create favourable conditions for operators in the matter. The Economic Policy Committee at its meeting two weeks ago reviewed the bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council believes that a bill resulting from the first reading may be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine also approved the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u166	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the performance. Yes, Vladimir Moysik has the right to speak to Oleg Layash, please. Next is Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. During the 21st year of independence of Ukraine, we have turned our domestic market into a field to which all the imported junk, which three times is sold, is five times more expensive than abroad. As a result, millions of Ukrainian citizens are deprived of employment, employment, decent living, and confidence in the future of their children. Seven million Ukrainians are now taking pots for Europeans to make 300 to 500 dollars a month and to count that money to their families. Separate families, parents grow up without children, children without parents. This has been the result of economic policies that have been taking place in the country for the past 20 years. And in this big "deservation," in the coffeehouses, the Antimonopoly Committee, giving the oligarchs the opportunity to acquire state-owned property, create an oligarchy system in the country, and ten families exploit millions of Ukrainian citizens, suck up the resources of the state. So this policy needs to be radically changed. The first is a radical tax reduction that destroys domestic national businesses. The second is a radical reduction in interest rates on loans to be cheap credit resources, and the third is a radical restriction on access to Ukraine. And here is the important role of the State, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Sanitation Service, and other public services, which are supposed to protect the internal market from import non-use. This will enable the restoration of national production, providing jobs for millions of Ukrainian citizens. This is what the Supreme Council should do. What are you doing? I'm asking for authority. And you're not doing anything because you're looking after people because you only care about yourself, your children, and your grandchildren. Who will take care of a simple worker? So put this one in your neck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u168	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Grivkowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen! That's the first voice of this underprivileged administrative reform that is now moving forward, which is a sign of hypercentralisation. Hypercentralization. Well, you know, it's when a person's education degree is done in order to get into the public service, the Ministry of Education gives in three months. While the territorial body that is part of the structure of the administration would do so in a matter of days. Because he'd be interested in it because it's a government service. Look at that. The first person who came to us that, guys, let's eventually change this hypercentralization is the Antimonopoly Committee. Others will follow. You haven't accepted the second reading of this set, the short set, starting with 218 to 223, those bills of the Merchants, I don't know why he's signing all these things, which are completely short-lived, these Talmuds. There's hypercentrification too. The management system involves not only decentralization, but also deconcentration. It is when authorities, territorial authorities, have the right to make decisions within the limits of the powers defined by law. If this is not done, the only authority that can make decisions is the Ministry. All of it. And this is total paralysis of activity. It's possible in a small country. But this is not possible in such a large country as Ukraine. So let's get to the bottom of this. Still, you find this inconvenient work of a government that. for a big score.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u170	Grivkowski. He's refusing? Ladies and gentlemen, the bill has been concluded. The committee proposes to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the improvement of legislation on the protection of economic recovery]] [[Registration number 10184]] [[13:38:05]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we should now consider a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Listing Property Rights that Are Not Privatized (for Individual Property Rights) (Registration No. 9664). At the same time, the author of the bill addressed a letter requesting the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone its consideration of the bill in view of the need for further processing of these proposals from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. No warning? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] If he offers, let's plant it, and then there'll be time to fail, we'll be there. We can do that by doing that. Dear National Deputies! A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the procurator's mandate to prevent violations of the law]] The reporter is Victor Schemchuk, and he's supposed to be here and from the committee. At the same time, the committee proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. So maybe we'd make the right decision with you and let the author and the committee, and here's the author. Then let's take a brief look at the issue. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:39:48]] For 211 Decision taken. Victor Viktorovich Shemchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Your attention is given to Bill 9499 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. [[on the procurator's mandate to prevent violations of the law]] The purpose of the bill is to give additional powers to prosecutors regarding the prevention of violations of the law, the prevention of offences in various spheres of social life, and the protection of the rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens. To date, a number of measures have been envisaged in the prosecutor’s arsenal, but they are all responding to the fact that there has already been a violation of the law in force. The implementation of the Ukrainian Constitution and Ukrainian Pro-Procuratorial Laws does not seem possible only in the direction of responding to detected violations of the law, but is proposed to be expanded by means of a law enforcement tool. The existing Ukrainian Procuratorial Act provides for such reactions as submission, prescription, protest and regulation as a response of the supervisory authority to the fact that it has already been completed. But the most effective work of the public prosecutor's office will be if the tools to prevent such violations are used in the complex with measures to respond to violations of the law. Authorizing the prosecutor to issue an inadmissibility warning will be an effective preventive measure in the fight against wrongdoing. This type of response can not only be applied when the public prosecutor's office carries out the functions of general oversight, as emphasized by, for example, the General Scientific and Experimental Administration, it will be an effective mechanism in overseeing the operational and search activities, the knowledge, the investigation of criminal cases. Moreover, its positive role will be effective in the context of the introduction of new criminal and procedural legislation. The protection of human rights through the prevention and violation of the law is in full conformity with international law and Ukraine’s international obligations. In particular, those accepted by Ukraine at the Eighth International Conference of Prosecutors - Generals of the Council of Europe. Legislative acts that define the organization of the activities of prosecutors of various countries, including SNDs, provide a form of prosecutorial response as a warning. And the experience of these countries shows that this form of reaction has a positive role to play in the protection of citizens’ rights and freedoms. In order to implement this initiative, the bill proposes to amend and supplement the Ukrainian Procurator's Act, namely, to supplement part two of the prosecutor's 20th section of the prosecutor's mandate, paragraph 5.1, with regard to warnings of non-compliance. To be completed also in article 24. 1, which provides grounds for authorizing the prosecutor to issue warnings and to complete article 25 with a second part, which contains the requirement for a warning to the response document. The adoption of the bill will help to make more effective use of the responsibilities of prosecutors, do not require additional budget expenses, and contribute to the rule of law in the state. And for the rest. The bill will remove one of the corruption elements in which prosecutors are constantly accused, i.e. take away their so-called phone rights, and anyone can now demand from a prosecutor who gives oral instructions, let's say, to the head of a business entity or credit institution about any action or control or law enforcement authority, for example, to stop checking written warnings. If the prosecutor is convinced of the legality of his actions, this will be documented by a warning, if not, that he must have documented the fact of his illegal activity. Please support the prescribed bill in the first reading and generally as a law. This is the opinion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which the bill proposes, in agreement with its necessity and acceptance, and the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee unanimously supports the bill. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u172	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. Only I have to make it clear that the committee is proposing to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office considers it appropriate to recommend rejecting it. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Would you please show me the names of the national MPs? Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Yuri Carmizne? Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Then there'll be the Coastan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u173	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition Dear National Deputies! The activities of the Attorney General’s Office are now being discussed completely around, starting with Parliament, ending with the lines, the trains that are now being destroyed by the authorities, it is taking care of the citizens right now, right now, especially for some reason they do not like to be decimated, by the Harkowians, by the lions. Night trains are cancelled, drive, and spend your time working. This concern, the concern they show, is already improving life today. The D.A. doesn't take action yet. Oh, and you should invite Mr. Kolesnick and give him a warning on the new article 24 prima. Me, too. I will vote in favour of this bill. And in the event that he is accepted, I recommend that the Attorney General invite two more persons, as a surprise, this is the Garant of the Constitution of Janukovitch Viktor Fedorovich, who should be warned in accordance with this article of the law and warned that he should mention that there is an article in the Constitution of 62 where it is written that a person is considered innocent of committing a crime until he has a conviction of a court that has taken effect. This was before his interview with Timoshenko when he said that she had committed several murders or organized several murders. I would also ask the Attorney General to invite his deputies and to work with them to study this article of the Constitution, and to warn them in writing by way of warnings. Because of this, I will support this bill, but I ask the authorities to start applying it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u174	Thank you. Yes, is Irina Coasta refusing? He's refusing. Dear colleagues, once again, I remind you of the committee's conclusion that the bill should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The main scientific and expert department believes that the bill should be rejected. So I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. [[Registration number 9499]] [[13:47:22]] For-37 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a motion to adopt the bill as a basis. [[Registration number 9499]] Based on the base. [[13:47:46]] For-26 The bill was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending article 184 of the Code of Administrative Offences has been announced. [[on increasing responsibility for failure by parents or those who are replaced by them to care for their children]] [[Registration number 9547]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[13:48:27]] For 196 Decision taken. The reporter and co-reporter is Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u175	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Honorable Volodymyr Mikhailovich, a respected fellow national MP, is known to be responsible for the actions of their parents, and parents are obliged to take responsibility for the actions of their minor and minor children. The Code of Administrative Offences contains article 184, which provides for responsibility for failure by parents or persons who are replaced by child - rearing responsibilities. These rules provide for minor fines for such offences. But as statistics show, especially the militia and local councils, these families are generally not well - off. Those fines that come in are really impossible to collect. Writing execution letters. So I offered as an alternative instead of fines, if they can't be paid, the court can assign public works. I mean, work instead of a fine in a hospital, in a car accident, sweeping the streets, that sort of thing. The Budget Committee supports the bill. The main scientific and expert administration, instead of evaluating the bill, was able to evaluate the law itself that is in force today. And they say that the law is so unnecessary, it doesn't fit the Constitution. Well, this isn't about the Chief Science Administration. The law is valid, there is an article in the Code of Administrative Offences. As the author and as the rapporteur for the committee that supported the bill, I ask your support. He will help to improve the responsibility for child rearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u176	Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Anatoly Matvienko, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense." So, Anatoly Matvienko? Dear colleagues, well, please. Olga Bodnar, "BUT" faction. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u177	Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland Party. Dear colleagues! The faction will support the legislative initiative of a colleague of Moses. Because today the majority of parents or persons who replace them and who avoid fulfilling their responsibilities to provide for the necessary living conditions of the child are called to account for administratively under article 184 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations. Yet, these people are largely, in their vast majority, the people who live immoral lives, the people who are alcoholics who live on the social benefits paid to low - income families, or even live on the wages they received at the birth of a child. So if we take away the fines from them, then the same child will suffer again. So I believe and our faction believes that fines should not affect the material situation of such families. And in this case, we support the initiative of a colleague of Moses to attract such persons to public work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u178	Thank you for your attention. Sergei Gordienko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u179	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. Dear colleagues! I would like to remind you that we have not once in the session hall adopted various bills aimed at restricting the presence of children by a certain term, and almost by patrolling the streets, and so on and so forth. But I'm pointing out that whatever laws we don't adopt, they don't come true, unfortunately. Volodymyr Romanovich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company, will support this bill in the first reading, but it draws attention to the fact that we have destroyed a Soviet education system based on the interaction of schools, families and the public, and a unified approach to education and responsibility. Now we're driving down the street -- we see a little kid walking around with a beer and a cigarette, there's teachers, there's parents, and they don't make any remarks. So until we get back to reestablishing a system of education that is responsible for school, family and the public.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u180	Finish your thought. Knazevitch. Then there's Bully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! On behalf of the faction, I would like to thank Vladimir Romanovich very much for paying attention to an extremely important social problem. We care so much, we talk so loud about social initiatives, but as far as children are concerned, no one is taking any steps in this part. The point is that, unfortunately, in the case of an irresponsible one, you know, absolutely, it seems to me that the brutal attitude of parents toward children in individual families is punished by the bracelet, not by parents in fact, but by children. Because a fine for parental misconduct is paid by the family. That is, from the family budget of that child, the father takes the last penny and gives the benefit of the state. You know how that anecdotes says, "If you think I'm going to drink less, no. You'd better eat less." Here is an attempt to address this issue with a completely logical proposal to allow other sanctions to be applied to such people – the possibility of attracting them to public work. We don't make it to Euro for a while, we have a lot of big community jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u182	Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u183	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! The MP's Reforms for the Future. In fact, this bill has such a social pressure. And we realize that increasing responsibility, on the other hand, is very important when parents are responsible for their children, and the state is trying, however, to raise children more or less normally. But I think there's other things to talk about in Parliament. Postgraduate education is what allows a child after coming home from school, she has to be in a creative group, doing sports, doing other things that actually raise this child. And we need to talk about what the state owes. We remember when we had pioneers who raised these children. And that's very important. It seems to me that there are only some administrative matters that cannot be settled. The State should also be responsible for raising our children. And it has to be about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The science-expert management's negative conclusion on this issue has come to the attention of this bill. The motion for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Law amending article 184 of the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on increasing responsibility for failure by parents or those who are replaced by them to care for their children]] [[Registration number 9547]] Here comes the vote. [[13:57:07]] For 301 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 183, "BUT - "Patkaščina" – 21, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 21, communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, we no longer have the opportunity to begin the debate, so I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Since 16 o'clock, we've been continuing our plenary work.
