ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:38]] 329 national deputies registered in the session hall. Morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Excuse me. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Now let's continue the second-reading issues, and then we'll go back to the bills that we have. No, I mean, they're included in the morning session. We're not going to be there yet. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine is under review. [[on changes in the rates of certain taxes and congregations]] [[Registration number 10687]] The reporter is Vitaly Hometicnik. Turn the microphone on in the stands, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u2	The Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy considered draft Law 10687. [[on the indexation of rates for the following year for certain types of taxes]] I want to remind you that, according to the Tax Code, we have to conduct annual tax indexation, such as excise duty, payment in beneficial mines and other positions. Over the next year, consumer price index is projected at 7.9 percent and so is indexed rates at this particular percentage. The second reading committee reviewed all the proposals made by the national MPs who had arrived. In total, there were 63 proposals, of which 43 are included, 16 are rejected. The overall balance under the bill is about two billion dollars of additional revenue in 2013. The Committee eventually refused to index oil prices, arguing that the excise duty on petroleum products in the current legislation is made up of euro. And the transition in this situation from the euro to the bracelet, in our view, will not bring any additional revenue. So in principle, we passed on a number of proposals that were supported by the committee, including government bills 11284 and 285 and are also in the Comparative Table. We are ready to consider the second reading and accept the project as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. No objections? Declined 17th amendment. Does the disgracer insist on it? Yuri Ivanovich! Ganushka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u4	I don’t have a chart, so I just don’t remember what it is. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u5	All bets of the congregations and excise taxes are tied to the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u6	That's it. Yes. It's for all of us. Adherence to a minimum tax-free minimum is anachronism. So we have to clearly realize that the attachment should go to those floating numbers that point to people's well-being -- that's to the minimum wage. Priv? The rope to the minimum wage is perfectly normal. The same fines are needed for the minimum, because we have inflation, and then it actually distorts the painting. So I report to myself that this will not be voted out, as always, as proposed by Hanushkah, but in any case, clearly for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u7	The offer is understood. Put her to the vote? The vote is amended as follows: 17. [[16:06:02]] For-7. Correction not supported. Amendment 19. Is the air conditioner insisting? I can't see. Slippery, 21st. I can't see. Air conditioning, 24th. 29 readjustments included. There is an insistence on putting her to the vote for confirmation. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u8	This is my amendment, and I want to explain especially to the citizens of Ukraine who now feel some comfort in relation to the budget deficit. Ukraine imported more than 22,000 cars last year, paying less than 30 million dollars at a time when the importer pays 10 percent when he imports an imported car. Increases in excise duty on passenger cars are necessary? However, in order to stop the hidden imports of finished cars under the scheme of large node folding and aggregated imports. The big knot folding of cars is a scheme of imports of ready cars. At the same time, however, the budget for one car lacks between 1200 and 2,000 euros in taxes and taxes. I don't think that's a national approach. So I made an offer. Not 3.5 thousand euros, as other colleagues suggested. I offer 800 euros. Under favorable conditions, there is absolutely no need for investment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u9	Please, the Saint for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! I cannot agree with that position. Because if such a tax is issued, there will be the closure of two auto factories, which generally pay about 600 million dollars to the government budget. 3.5 thousand people will lose their jobs. And there's going to be an artificial monopoly of one very important, but one enterprise in Ukraine. It is not possible to create a monopoly in Ukraine. Therefore, please do not support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u11	Dear colleagues! Amendment 29, by Jaroslav Suhi, is included. The proposal to confirm this amendment, No. 29, is put to the vote by the People's Deputy, Mr. Dmitry Holy. I'll bet you a vote. Please vote. [[16:09:10]] For 176 The amendment is not supported, i. e. not supported. Similarly, we need to do so with Amendment 30. It's similar to the content. Amendment 32, Pinchuk. No, it's not. Amendment 35, Kings. No, it's not. Amendment 38, Pinchuk. No, it's not. Mountain, repair 39. No, it's not. Amendment 42. Mountain doesn't insist. 43rd doesn't insist either. Pinchuk, 47th. Don't insist. Yeah, the amendment, Slippery, 51st. No, it's not. Correction, Carmazin, 54th. Do you insist, Yuri Anatolyovich? No, it doesn't. Kings, 56th. Oh, no? Yes, all other adjustments are included. Yes, Vitaly Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u12	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u13	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u14	I'm asking for a technical correction for the transcript, amendment 13 of Pinchuck. Here in the second paragraph, to delete the words 'fermented', or after the text, will thus be 'imported into the customs territory of Ukraine of fermented tobacco,' the word 'fermented' will be deleted. It's a technical error.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u15	No objections? Don't you have to vote? Thus, honourable colleagues, given that 29 and 30 amendments have not found support, are not supported in the Supreme Council, they are excluded. The 13th amendment, mentioned by the head of the Vitaly ’ ’ Homutinnik Committee, is made in detail. And given that, Vitaly Juryovich, we can put it to a vote, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u16	Yes. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u17	And given these clarifications that I've mentioned, I'm voting on a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill for the draft Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on changes in the rates of certain taxes and congregations]] [[Registration number 10687]] I would like to remind you that the Chief Legal Authority has taken note of the document. Please take this into account. Puts the vote to the vote. Please vote. [[16:12:22]] For 234 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation is being announced for consideration. [[new editor]] [[second reading]] Marina Perestenko, please head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u18	Thank you. Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national deputies, second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation. [[Registration number 11221]] The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation has been prepared with the aim of improving organizational and economic principles for the formation and activities of agricultural cooperatives in Ukraine and their infrastructure, taking into account world practice. One of the most pressing problems in Ukraine is the absence of a cooperative movement in rural areas that would contribute to the further development of agrarian market infrastructure, has had a positive impact on the price of fluctuations in the food market, has created a transparent network of food and agricultural products produced by small-scale farmers, natural persons and private farmers. A second reading of 41 proposals was made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies. All suggestions are considered and discussed at the meeting. Part of the proposals are rejected as non-conforming to the concept of the bill. These proposals will improve the bill. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will significantly improve the legislative, tax, financial and credit, economic conditions of agricultural cooperatives and their members, positively affect the price of food market fluctuations, create conditions for the operation of a transparent food network and the marketing of agricultural products, which will lead to an increase in agricultural production volumes, contributing to food security in the country. Committee proposal: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, let's go to the repairs. 1 correction, Stranger. Is he insisting? No, Mountain, 2nd? No, it's not. Weird, 3rd? No, it's not. Mountain, 6th? No, it's not. Carmazine, 7th? No, it's not. Strange, 8th? Don't insist. Yeah, Carmazin doesn't insist. Yeah, yeah. Lukyanchuk, 27th? No, it's not. Sidekick, 29th? Ivan Sidelnik insists? No, it's not. So, Ganustak, 36th? That's not good. I'll read it to you. "In the Cooperation Act, in paragraph 13, the words "may change" are replaced by the words "defined as a statutory fund in accordance with the legislation on entrepreneurship concerning the formation of a statutory fund of societies." He's refusing. Yes, then all of them. These amendments do not insist on what they were. Yes, Marina Volodymyrna, please offer the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u20	Committee proposal: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? The proposal for a second reading committee and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Cooperation is put to the vote. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 11221]] Please vote. [[16:17:17]] For 227 The decision has been taken, or the law has been passed, within the limits of truth. Dear colleagues, we now have to consider a draft law amending the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. [[Registration number 11304]] At the same time, there is a letter from the committee on the transposition of the bill in view of the need for further study of the document for the next plenary week. Well, if we don't look at it, what can we talk about? Is there no objection? Nobody insists? No, it's not. And now, dear fellows, the offer. Let's go to the drafts that we decided in the morning to include them in the agenda and to process them immediately in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Service Act is being announced for consideration. [[on pay]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[16:18:56]] For 213 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Inna Jemelyanova. And Voronin, deputy minister, will also act. Crow, I'm sorry. Deputy Minister Voron and then, Basil Demchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u22	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, it is proposed that the draft Law be amended at the time of amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State Service, which is designed to implement paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers minutes. The draft Act provides for the postponement of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Act of 17 November 2011 on State Service, which will take effect as of 1 January 2013, part of the payment of work, the award of public servants, the recalculation of previously appointed pensions in connection with the change in minimum wage and the payment of financial assistance for the provision of annual basic leave for one year. The implementation of this bill will not require additional material and other expenses. Please accept the draft law before you as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u23	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Vasil Vasilovitch Demčishen, please, both on your own project and from the committee, obviously.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u24	Dear Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a colleague, a new edition of the Ukrainian State Service Act provides for its entry into force on 1 January 2013. The provisions of this law are systematically linked and aimed at a comprehensive reform of the public service. Thus, the pay system is linked to the division of posts according to the functional criteria and criteria for the extent of competence and responsibility in office. At the same time, a bill that was just presented to me. The Minister of Justice, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, proposes to postpone for one year the entry into force of a series of articles on pay, which are encouraged by the social guarantees of a civil servant. However, the adoption of this bill would lead to a disagreement between certain provisions of the State Service Act. This, in particular, I have already stressed, applies also to the qualifications of positions, rankings, and so forth. Nor has a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self - Government, a project that the Supreme Council has returned to the Cabinet of Ministers for further consideration. Failure to ensure a simultaneous and coordinated introduction of the new regulations will create a dangerous situation for the full implementation of administrative reform and lead to a lack of compliance with the regulations governing the conduct of the service in local self-government bodies. In view of this single, I think, compromise decision is intended to extend for one year the entire Ukrainian State Service Act of 17.11.2011. The introduction of the draft law will not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Now with regard to the decision of our committee, which has discussed both of these bills at its meeting today. By its decision, the committee did not support the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, in principle, by upholding the positions that I had just announced in my report. With regard to my bill, the votes were divided: there were 3 suggestions to support the whole, to enter into force on April 1st, and to reject at all. The biggest vote came in favour, but that wasn't the majority's offer, so the committee didn't get it, and it's offering to do it in the session room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u25	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Dear colleagues! Please register to exchange your thoughts on this bill. Please, People's Deputy Lukyanchuk, the "BUT" faction. Who will perform there?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u26	I've been handed a card, I'm sorry, Bodnar's the one who raised her hand, switched places, if you'll excuse me, that's what I asked for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u27	Please, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u28	I want to say, Your Honor, that the State Service is the last place and we're the last institution, we can't. You and I understand very well, I've told you this in the morning, how important it is to have highly qualified professionals in the public service. If we're introducing dragon rules for the adoption of the public service today, if we're predicting mandatory admission conditions, and we're adopting a new KPC today, and now we know that there's a greater responsibility for corruption and so on, and we're going to pay people for their hard work for a penny, then I'll tell you that it's not going to be easier to work, and it's not going to be easier to recruit people as low-skilled workers. If we want Ukraine to go down there somewhere, I don't know anymore, I don't want to insult any other country's name. But if we want Ukraine no longer to perform any functions at the level of the public service, that is the simplest step. I ask you very much, the great institution of the State Service deserves respect, if we raise the prestige of this institution, then the whole state-owned machine will work. And we're not going to say that documents send us unfulfilled. We will not say that some material has been mismanaged; we will not say that man is fighting against the threshold and cannot reach the truth. And we're going to say that every person in this country has protection because Ukraine is going the right way -- through democracy. It's a law that's lax.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u29	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u30	Vladimir Karpuk. In the morning when the bill was voted in favour of the bill, there was already a very large debate in the agenda. And, really, I agree that before the elections, when all the administrative resources, all the civil servants, had to be mobilized, those changes were not talked about before the legislative changes. They said and promised that there would be an increase in wages to interest those people. After the harsh and cynical use of their powers and social workers, culture, and health care to improve the outcome of the elections, changes are made to the bill in order to postpone changes to reform the salaries of government officials. Today, there is a shortage of government officials, especially young ones in this area. The average government wage is not higher than in other areas. And some cynicism is being looked at, the Supreme Council is not adopting the Law on Service in Local Self-Government, it is delaying the process of raising wages, reforming wages in this area, and thus amending the Law on Service in Public Authorities. That is why we will not support this bill. And I think let people see how they're used to achieve their goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u31	Dear National MPs, now have the right to speak, who have not signed up, in one minute – Mikhailo Chechetov, Sergey Gordijenko. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u32	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! What is the purpose of the constructive work of power? When I mean power, I mean both government and parliament. No one was introducing the bill, but if it was to be seen on the other hand that it could be improved, it must be taken for granted, no matter what political views. And we are the majority, although the Government seems to have passed a bill, but the MPs on the committee, and in the committee there, representatives of various political factions, have finalized it and introduced it, in our view, a better version of the bill, which needs to be supported by all the halls. This is a case in which the MPs are actually refining the Government's bill in the best way. Please support both the basis and, in general, the amended Bill, Vasily Demchisen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u33	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u34	Sergei Gordienko. Ukrainian Company faction, Poltavščina. I would like to say that the biggest problem of today’s public service is the extremely low wages of government officials. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the average wage on the industry is over three thousand dollars, and the average wage on the government official for October 2012 is 1,777 dollars. I wanted to. It's just destroying the public service as it is today, and there's no other reform that can go on. What does the bill decide? It does virtually nothing, imposes additional responsibilities and restrictions, and no social guarantees. We insist that, as promised by the President and the government, reforming, enacting the law fully and comprehensively, with all the social guarantees that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u35	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The proposal to do so. As recommended here by a number of national deputies. In line with the order of registration, I will put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis and as a whole. And if you don't support the first one, then the second one, the original one, Demchisten. The offer is clear, right? I am voting on the proposal for acceptance as a basis and in general the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Service Act. [[11401 government]] [[16:31:01]] For-0 The decision is not taken. There is now a motion for acceptance as a basis and in the whole of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Service Act, the author is Demcishen. [[MP]] Please vote. [[16:31:34]] For 233 The law is passed. Please, Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u36	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! With a view to clarifying the wording of the amendments made to the Ukrainian Code of Land, which are discussed with the amendment authors, please return to the consideration of Bill 11315 and support the extension of the moratorium on land sales by 2016. Please put this motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u37	Please, who's going to be in on this? I just wanted to give John Kirilenko a word. Ivan Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u38	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u39	Dear colleagues! The proposal for this purpose is to go back to the consideration of this law to foresee a moratorium on the land market by 1 January 2016. Is that an offer? Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, we are prepared to go back to the draft and vote on the condition that not one amendment is included here, but this amendment, which is made up of three parts, because it clearly foresees not a double interpretation, but a clear understanding that it is not just a moratorium until 1 January 2016, but it consists of the first part where: until the law on the circulation of agricultural land is in force, but not before 1 January 2016 it is prohibited to introduce land rights to statutory capitals of agricultural societies. [[pear]] Second ingredient. Until the Act on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Assignment takes effect, but not before 1 January 2016. And accordingly, the third term of this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u41	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u42	And the third position. Similarly, there is a repetition in paragraph 2 of sub-paragraph "b": "not before 1 January 2016." So this is three times referred to as "not before 2016." But most of all, we attach this to the date, not to the Law on Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Purpose, as I said in this amendment. Under such conditions, our faction will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, this is exactly what Gregory Kaletnik suggested, so that the text should state exactly what Mikola Tomenko said, there are three positions: "not before 1 January 2016."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u44	I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, want to name the amendments for the transcript. This needs to be voted on, supported by Amendment 2 of the Chapel and voted on January 1, 2014: January 1, 2016", once. The Tomenka is repeated in this way by 3 revisions, then it gets counted. Then the 5th Kaplanka: until the entry into force of the Land Cycle Act – by 1 January 2014 – we are voting by 2016. Volume 6 of the amendment shall be voted upon in full. 8th Chaplin. Oboe? we have to vote, by 1 January 2013 until 2016, because it speaks of another paragraph of the Earth Code. And finally Bevanka needs to vote for the Cabinet of Ministers to draft such a bill and bring it to the Supreme Council. Thank you. It's for the stenographer. So it's full-scale.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u45	Dear colleagues, what was proposed in this law on the right hand side, we write everywhere: "not before 1 January 2016." And in the Final Positions, we add the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare the corresponding draft law. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u46	Yes, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u47	That's a proposition: it's all over the text. With this proposal in mind, I'm voting for a return to this issue, which is what we've just discussed. Please vote. [[16:37:30]] For 264 Decision taken. Now I'm betting on the vote, my dear fellows, we're back on the adoption of a law that will clearly record all positions – not before 1 January 2016. And in the final positions, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been instructed to develop and submit a draft Law on the Circumvention of Lands of Agricultural Assignment for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal to approve this project as a whole as a law in an editorial that I just told you about. On January 1, 2016, with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to draft the law and submit it to the Supreme Council. Please vote. [[16:38:35]] For 269 The law is passed, thank you. Dear colleagues! It's shown once again that we can still find compromise and make the right decision. Dear colleagues! Now we need to consider a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on voluntary payment of a single contribution. [[Registration number 11266]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[16:39:25]] For-195 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Viacheslav Kolomiyec. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons Valeriy Suškević. If there is no Suškević, who will be on the committee, please prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u48	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, the bill proposes to settle the issue of payment of the only contribution by Ukrainian citizens working outside Ukraine of enterprises, institutions, organizations, including international organizations, with a view to implementing their pension insurance rights through voluntary participation agreements. In addition, the bill deals with the question of voluntary payment of the only contribution to ensure the participation in pension insurance of non-members of the single contribution, such as students, foreigners, stateless persons who live or work permanently in Ukraine, as well as Ukrainian citizens who work or live permanently outside Ukraine. These changes will help to fill the Pension Fund’s budget, and they will also allow for appropriate periods of work for a given category of persons. The bill also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Act "On the collection of compulsory state pension insurance" in part of the clarification of retirement age to compensate for pension benefits. The implementation of this draft act will not require additional costs from the state and local budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, please support and accept the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u49	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Who from the committee will be speaking? Please. Vladimir Gerasimchuk, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u50	Honourable Volodymira Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, reviewed the bill at its meeting on November 6, 2012. The Committee generally supports a legislative proposal aimed at ensuring the rights of citizens working outside Ukraine to retire and improve Ukrainian laws on payment of a single contribution. At the same time, the committee made the following warnings. First, the proposed changes to the single payment of the insured person in the previous period in the amount of at least the minimum premium fixed at the date of the contract will result in an increase in the amount of the premium to be paid compared to the applicable conditions. At present, in the case of a one-time payment of premiums for previous periods, the amount of premiums paid for each month may not be less than the minimum premium for the month for which the premium is paid. And secondly, the committee agrees with the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on the need to clarify the proposed standard for reducing the amount of a single foreign currency contribution to all commission fees held by the bank for carrying out foreign currency transactions. Such requirements are unlikely to be justified, since they do not contain predictable and predictable indicators of additional expenditures for citizens who are paid to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. What's more, citizens can't choose their own bank. The main scientific and expert office provides a general conclusion that, as a result of the first reading, the bill can be adopted as a basis, taking into account the comments made. In the light of the discussion, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the introduction into certain laws of Ukraine concerning the voluntary payment of a single contribution as a result of the review in the first. [[Registration number 11266]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u51	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u52	The committee proposes to adopt the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, the report, the report is done. Is there no objection to accepting as a basis, and yet to be determined? Yuri Hanustak has a different opinion. Please sign up. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u54	The bill is completely transparent, clear and clear. There are people who work abroad in our businesses and can contribute to the Foreign Exchange Pension Fund. I don't think there's a problem. What is more, we have repeatedly raised questions about allowing such people to continue their insurance work and the possibility of receiving a pension when they return home. So I propose to support this bill both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u55	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u56	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! Will this bill solve the problem of avoiding payment to the Pension Fund? Well, basically not. Well, if you remember, in her time, Leapina passed a bill where a person too wanted and paid contributions to the Pension Fund, but it was not supported. Now there's a problem with employees to account for, but it won't actually come out of the shadows either. We still need to move from a solidarity system, not to play stockpiling, which in Ukraine will be clearly, well, criminal, but to move on to a solid accounting system where all contributions are accounted for and indexed every year. And in this case, the person himself will be interested in paying for these contributions. And even if she has her own salary in the shadows, she's going to retire, because in this case she's going to be protected by this pension. What's more, we've had all the payments made since 2000. Well, of course, there are some differences. I realize that when there's a minimum amount of payments to the Retirement, but when this bill limits the maximum amount of payments -- well, that's kind of crazy. A man now has money -- he wants to make this money while he has it. Well, that's a perfectly normal approach. Because let’s say that in the 20th century, people were stockpiling this money for old age. Now the man is ready to invest in the Pension Fund. So you don't have to limit that amount. Because once again, we've had all of the amounts accounted for since 2000, and if we go to a normal accounting system, in this case we're going to solve the issue of issuing insurance premiums.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u57	Thus, the honourable colleagues, the discussion of the matter is concluded. A proposal for a committee to adopt a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on voluntary payment of a single contribution is put to the vote. [[Registration number 11266]] Please vote. [[16:47:42]] For 251 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on ensuring access to court decisions]] [[Registration number 11215]] The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Filipenko. Who will be speaking from the committee? And Filipenko? Proposal from the committee: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm voting on this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. [[16:48:30.]] For 215 Decision taken. Vladimir Philipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, Your Honor. The purpose of the bill is to determine specific deadlines for sending electronic copies, court decisions, and a single national register of court decisions, and to establish responsibility for failure to do so. Yes, the project envisages making changes to part one of article 83 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, which proposes to introduce disciplinary responsibility for failure to refer a judge into established terms, electronic copies of a court decision into a single national register of court decisions. For the time being, these periods are not fixed and individual judges give copies of their decisions not that for months, and some even in a year fail to make copies of all decisions made in a single register. Accordingly, this poses some problems for both the judiciary and other citizens interested in the register system. Guaranteeing the widest possible access of citizens to judicial decisions is an important element for ensuring their constitutional rights, an important condition for increasing their trust in the courts of Ukraine, and an effective form of public control over the legality and validity of judicial decisions. I would like to point out that the adoption of this law will contribute to a more precise implementation of the basic requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Access to Judicial Decisions, the effective work and the continuous filling of the Single State Register of Judgments, and will facilitate timely familiarization of citizens with judicial decisions. It is proposed by the bill that an electronic copy of a court decision shall be sent to the judge not later than the day following the date of the decision or decision. Colleagues, please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u59	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, our citizens are now concerned with the protection, first and foremost, of the constitutional rights of our citizens. Because we're talking a lot about justice, about the arbitration that an independent court system is supposed to do in those disputes that are either ongoing in the field of agriculture or criminal proceedings. First of all, we must ensure the objectivity of the proceedings. We must ensure our judicial system against corruption, we must give transparency to all court decisions and generalize court practice. All of this can be done only if those decisions that are approved by the Ukrainian courts are kept in a single register, where the judges are professional, when dealing with similar cases, and citizens, and lawyers will be able to familiarize themselves with the decisions of the courts, thus building the legal system of Ukraine. Those judges who go beyond the law, who may be trying to escape from the court decisions that, let’s say, are not legally approved, should be punished. Because all of us sitting in this room are talking about the need for judicial reform, which is judicial reform in the democratic European traditions that Ukraine wants. I urge everyone to support this bill and make it part of Ukrainian legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u61	Vladimir Stretović, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u62	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Three more years ago, I had a similar project here to consider a session of the Supreme Council, whose main leitmotivate was that if there was no such decision in a single state registry, such a decision could not take effect. Understandably, because it is not publicized, it does not acquire legal power, and from this we must go to law. Yet, then, the Supreme Council did not support this decision and only practice as a criterion of truth in the process of improving and applying judicial decisions has shown that it is inevitable to establish a standard under which a court decision must be made in a public register of judicial decisions. That is why we consider this proposal to be the right thing to do. The only thing I want to add, Vladimir Mikhailovich, in the process of first reading my amendment, is that it cannot take effect without publishing it in a single national register, let it be an amendment to the second reading and immediately let the hall determine, absolutely logical and real proposal. And with regard to the responsibility of judges, it is also essential because we have some courts overloaded and some are not fully operational. There are cases where judges announce only the effective part of the decision, especially in the household courts, and the narrative part itself is prepared for several weeks and then carried out only. Therefore, the introduction of the appropriate responsibility of judges, I think correctly and positively, will have a positive effect on the responsibility of judges for the adoption and adoption of legal decisions based on law. I'd like to support the proposal made by Deputy Philippeenka. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u63	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues! Question completed. Please, Catherine Samuel. Turn on the microphone, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u64	Thank you very much. When I listen to my colleagues' speeches, I think it sounds like it's from some other planet, but it's not happening on Earth, and it's not happening in Ukraine. All that's said is a fairy tale because they said and passed the Law on Support of a Domestic Agricultural Producer, and they took away what at least 50 percent of the fitters should be native. Yes, and this. I don't know who, I've passed 80 courts. If the local court takes a decision and the head of the state district administration gives evidence that it uses the administrative resources and takes that decision on my behalf, the Odessa Court of Appeal annuls that decision. I wanted this beautiful story that Stretovich was talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u65	Please finish. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u66	. And especially Miroshnichenko, I wanted this fairy tale to be a reality, a true lie and a lie today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u67	I don't think Miroshnichenko can make a fairy tale, yeah. But this is something to be desired. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of draft Act No. 11215 concerning amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on ensuring access to court decisions]] Yes, there is a vote. Can you tell me how much there is? For--232. The computer didn't work here. For 232. Decision taken. Vladimir Pilipovich, or is it the offer that Vladimir Stretovich made? It's a dispute, isn't it? So it's in the first reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, the honourable colleagues have adopted the bill as a basis. Now it is proposed that you consider the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on further improving tax and assembly administration, as well as the draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on further improving tax and assembly administration, the proposal, honourable colleagues, to report immediately on two bills and the vote. [[Registration number 11284]] [[Registration number 11285]] We'll have a separate discussion and a vote. If you have to. If you need to make a statement, you'll be fine. Dear colleague, everything will be fine, everything will be fair. In the future. There is a motion to vote: to consider this issue under a reduced procedure, I refer to Bills 11284, 11285. Please vote. [[16:58:27]] For 230 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Rybak. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee. Please, Sergey Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Cabinet of Ministers for your consideration, the bill in question is about clarifying procedures that need to be clarified in legislation, in accordance with the new edition of the Customs Code. [[11284]] This is how the term “import goods” is defined in accordance with the adopted legislative act, the authority that establishes the fiscal requirements for the registers of cash registers, applies the scope of the introduction of cash registers. The bill also deals with the issue of the circulation of excise stamps if the sample of excise stamps is changed. We also suggest that we change the direction of accounting for the funds of the congregation. The introduction of a new bill will help to ensure the conditions for the formation of financial resources sufficient to carry out the constitutionally established functions of the State in the state and local budgets. Thank you for your attention. In the next bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for your consideration, it is about standardizing the following items in the legislation. [[No11285]] Regarding the taxation of securities transactions: the financial result is determined by the sale of securities under the rules set out in the accounting account; and the collection of excise tax on securities securitization transactions. By excise duty, we increase the demanded weight of the specific rates of the excise tax. In order to avoid opposition, groups of taxable goods, such as petroleum products, are expanding to avoid tax evasion. We make an advance payment on excise taxes when manufacturers purchase excise stamps. We're simplifying the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u70	Thank you. We simplify the taxation system: we introduce an electronic form of filling out applications for a simplified tax system, we introduce simplified taxation systems for payers, and we reduce rates for those who operate on this simplified system of taxation, so that more entrepreneurs are involved, and we simplify their accounting system. Under tax administration, we simplify the registration of VAT payers, determine the register of invoices issued and received as an integral part of the tax declaration. In general, according to our previous estimates, this bill will also provide a possible increase of 2 million dollars in the budget, in addition to standardizing procedures. The Ministry of Finance proposes to adopt these two bills as a basis for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitaly Homutinnik, head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! In considering the two bills of government 11284 and 285, I have to point out that we have just passed a bill, a comprehensive bill on tax indexation, and we have moved the part, the left-hand part of the provisions contained in the bills. [[10687]] As for the first bill, 11284. The language's coming. This comprehensive bill deals with amendments to several laws. This is the Law on Foreign Economics, on the Order of Accounting in Foreign Currency, on the Application of Accountants in Commercial Accounting, on State Rules on Production, on the Traffic in Alcohol, and on the Budget Code. These changes are envisaged in relation to compliance with the specific provisions of these legislative acts with the standards proposed in the following law in 11285. As far as 11285 is concerned, in fact most of the provisions of this bill have already been translated into, again, 10687. This is a matter of taxation, taxation of tobacco, and administrative matters. Tax administration position. In fact, there are only situations in this project that relate to the taxation of securities that are not yet settled and that we need to work on in the second reading. In summary, the committee's recommendation and the next decision are to adopt both drafts with possible exclusion. .
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u73	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u74	with possible exclusion from those provisions that were adopted in 10687. In the committee's draft decision, all the positions to be deleted are listed. In order not to waste time, you can simply make a decision, a project recommended by the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u75	The committee's decision is based on one and the other. So it's... it's... Please sign up for the performance. Please, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u76	Please pass the word to the financier among the Cossacks and the Cossack among the financiers of Stanislaw Arzveting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u77	Please, Arjovitin. Two laws, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the first law that the Cabinet of Ministers is now dedicating all its functions to the National Bank. In my view, as far as external economic activity is concerned, this is a high priority, the prerogative is the Cabinet of Ministers, because it has to be a fashion legislator in part of external economic accounting. If we could agree that we gave the function to the National Bank that it has a single currency to determine what amount and how to sell to the State, maybe we could agree to that. But as far as external economic activity is concerned, this is the priority of the Cabinet of Ministers. Now we're removing this rule and the Cabinet won't do it, it's going to be a function of the National Bank. I don't think that's good. As far as fiscal policy is concerned. In today’s norm, fiscal policy on external economic operations has been expressed as if once again the Cabinet of Ministers in a person of the State Tax Administration who has agreed with the National Bank. I think that made sense, too. Now this is all going to disappear and define the fiscal function, fiscal policy is going to be the National Bank that they're going to agree with all of these things. I don't think that's logical or wrong. As for the various tests planned, out-of-planned. In today’s law, there was an entire article regulating what planned, off - schedule terms were. These terms were defined by law. Now we're removing this rule. And please tell me what the entrepreneurs are going to be thinking about. What's the plan now, what's the plan now? There's no law. I think this rule is also being eliminated prematurely, illogically, and wrongly. Well, in large numbers, I wouldn't support this bill in such an editorial. Next. With regard to the special bill, the following bill with a special function of taxation of securities. Well, it seems to me that the Cabinet of Ministers here was simply confusing sin with the righteous. If financial transactions are taxed in Europe, once again, all financial institutions' operations, we're disposing of one financial institution called securities. So let's just call it, I'm sorry that this is a sub-occupational product at the top of the hood, the car, the alcohol, and the taxes on it, and I don't think there's any logic or economic substance here. Apparently, the Cabinet of Ministers really got something mixed up. What is it like to tax transactions on a non-fund market, a non-fund market? Were they referring to an out - of - stock market? These are different things! So, your honor, you can't let this happen in the law. So to tax excise transactions with securities is an economic absurdity. I also propose not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u79	Unguran, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u80	It's Unguran. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u81	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I take it, we're discussing both 11284 and 85 at the same time, or separately?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u82	No, together. Or together.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u83	Together. Then I'd like to say a few words, I'd like to say a few words about Bill 11285, and then pass the word to my colleague Ganustak. So as far as 11285 is concerned, this bill is obviously also about increasing the excise burden on the cheapest cigarettes and products, tobacco products in Ukraine. I brought up my bill under number 11197, which, unfortunately, is not being considered for any reason at this time. But we need to increase the tax burden on the cheapest cigarettes, including unfiltered cigarettes, because today these products are the ones that ruin the lives and health of most young people. So I insist that this be supported and we continue our fine tradition of increasing excise burden on tobacco products. Thank you. And now I'm asking you to pass the time to Hanushkah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u84	Please have 40 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u85	No, minute 40. Thank you. Yuri Hanustak. And I'm going back to 84***, there are changes to the Budget Code. I'll say it again. The Special Fund is a fund that consists of trust funds, where there's attachment, that's the money that comes in revenue, if they're connected to expenditure in some way, that's synergy. If it goes to the general fund, in some cases it is either uncomfortable or easier to escape, or it is not where the funds are earmarked. That's exactly what happened. So if we throw into the general fund, the funds are being smeared, and in fact the conservation measures are being taken to make sure that this damage that goes and that the compensatory fund is being compensated, it will not be compensated, and these measures will not be carried out accordingly. That's why I wish it wasn't. Not to mention that the cost of the local budgets is declining there, it was 50, now 35. That's not right. And the second thing. It's a very strange thing, we're changing the concept of planned and pre-planned tests, which was perfectly normal for everyone, to actual and documentary tests, I can already see scary.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u86	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u87	I'm done. I see a lot of tax abuse already. These things don't have to be allowed. Therefore, this law cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u88	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, discussing the bill. Well, please, Oleg Lazko, just at this meeting for the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u89	As God will. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, these are the drafters who brought him here. I want to remind you that Ukraine takes first place in the world by the number of taxes and congregations. As a result of such repressive policies, especially since the adoption of the New Tax Code, hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens have lost their jobs, their livelihoods. And the government, instead of proposing legislation to reduce tax pressure that would ultimately create new jobs, increase economic activity. The government is proposing bills that re-emerg on tax burdens, which provide total control and repression by the tax administration. I think this policy is catastrophically wrong. It is important not to impose new taxes, but rather to reduce taxes radically. Only this will enable a change in the economic situation in Ukraine, creating new jobs for millions of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm going to put the bill separately to the vote. This is the bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to further improve the administration of taxes and congregations for adoption as a basis. Please vote. [[17:14:13]] For 231 Decision taken. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Further Improvement of Tax Administration and Assembly Administration. [[Registration number 11281]] Please vote. 11285, excuse me! 11285, please vote. [[17:14:47]] For 217 The decision is not taken. Well, then logic is lost in these project documents. I am voting on the proposal to return to the draft Law (Registration No. 11285). Well, logic is failing! On your return, vote, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[17:15:18]] For 230 Decision taken, come back. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as the basis of a project (registration number 11285). [[B in m in s a l in]] Everything's going to be fine. Everything's going to be fine even if it's different. What are you worried about?Oh, my God! [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote! Let the new Supreme Council handle it. [[17:15:48]] For 231 Decision taken, thank you. Dear colleagues, now we need to look at one issue that is made up of a series of bills, this is about the utilization of transport vehicles, so that they're being taken out of operation. We have Bills 11259, 11260 here. [[authors called it off]] Well, you filed a letter about the cancellation, I'll show you right now. Well, read about you calling him off, it's not me. Is that right? [[B in m in s a l in]] So I say 11259 is left, and 11260 you cancel. Right? Jaroslav Mikhailovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u91	It says, "Let's call off the draft law for the purpose of redrafting it." So where? I don't see him. Bills, these are bills, of which 3 are government and 2 are copyrighted, which actually relate to one problem. [[Registration numbers 11259, 11260, 11437, 11442 and 11443]] That is why we unite them for discussion, and we will vote individually. I put to the vote his consideration of this issue under a reduced procedure. Reports are made on all drafts, reports are made on all drafts, discussions and voting on each of the proposed bills. Is there no objection? I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[17:18:22]] For 236 Decision taken. Therefore, the honourable colleagues, the first to be reported by Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, will report on Bills 11259, 11260. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, since March 1998, when the Wastes Act was passed, many times and many of you remember, there have been changes and additions in this room. The main reason for these changes, the need to respond to environmental changes due to technological overcrowding and the need for legislative regulation of the principles of activity, including disposal and disposal or reversal, was once written in laws, the negative impact of such wastes on human health. Thus, the disposal of transport equipment has long become a topic that is not yet regulated in our country, although Ukraine has made international commitments to address this area of economic activity. Ukraine’s car park now has about 8 million vehicles, light, trucking buses, and hundreds of thousands of them are expected to be disposed of only this year. I've been talking about this bill, and I've been talking about the fact that we have hundreds of cars in Kiev alone, and we've only got hundreds of cars in the city of Kiev, and we've got courts, and we've got cadmium, tungsten, lead, mercury, plastic, and it's all causing damage to the environment. Why at the same time? But because the adoption and entry into force of draft laws 11259 and 11260 will solve organizational financial issues related to the functioning of the vehicle disposal system. Moreover, the adoption of these two bills is adequate. Solving the problem of the export of Ukrainian automobiles, which resulted from the introduction by the Russian Federation of a recycling assembly from transport vehicles. The Russian Federation is known to have set up a recycling assembly on imported cars and buses since 1 September 2012, which has made exports of Ukrainian automobiles to the Russian market much more difficult. I mean, it's a gross violation of parity in trade relations between the two countries. After all, Russian vehicles continue to be imported into Ukraine without payment of import duties within the SND free trade zone. One more thing, absolutely, very important. Dear colleagues, I would like everyone to remember that the introduction of an environmental tax on the disposal of transport equipment in the first year, according to the findings of the government’s expert conclusions, already in its first year, will allow for additional direct revenues to the reserve budget of 2 - 2.5 billion dollars. The bill clearly defines the recognition of means of transport that are to be disposed of, disposed of, and committed. Bill 11260 provides for an extension of the environmental tax base and for the administration of this tax for the disposal of vehicles of different categories. With payers clearly determine the volume of those who import, produce, buy****, resell. And according to my colleague Suškević, he asked me questions, clearly predicted who are not paying the environmental tax for disposal, the whole list goes, the cars that serve international, consular, embassies and so on. I'm making an offer. This bill was very difficult to go through, it was difficult to go through, but without it we can't negotiate normally and without it we won't be able to get the support, state support of a domestic producer and ensure a safe environment. So, honourable colleagues, I'm proposing that you support these two bills on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u93	I would immediately ask them to speak, and what about the government, then we reject them? What about government officials then? There's a government. Dear colleagues, we put them in the agenda this morning, are they, what are you talking about? The reports on the first two bills have been made, and they're going to tell you, the next bill of 11437 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Elimination Assembly. Mormul Dmitry Dmitrovich, deputy minister of ecology and natural resources, will be the reporter. And he will speak on the content of Bill 11442 – this is the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Elimination Assembly and Bill 11443 – amending article 47 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Environment. [[on the Disposal Congregation]] Please have six minutes. Bet four, it'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! As in the previous speech, I would like to point out that this problem is very important to the country. In view of the fact that a large number of vehicles have to be cheated and properly disposed of each year. This raises the issue of a comprehensive solution to scientific, economic, social issues in this regard. One such task is to rehabilitate transport technology that needs to develop a system-wide approach to developing and continuously improving the manufacturing and technical potential of the utilization of transport vehicles. The implementation of a system of integrated vehicle management will allow for the creation of a range of socio-economic and manufacturing tasks related to the activation of auto-installation activities, the expansion of the number of jobs and the creation of workshops and premises for the purpose of reprocessing of nodes and aggregates of recyclable equipment under the relevant national manufacturing consumption nomenclature. To further structure and development in Ukraine, the area of waste management, the introduction of new technologies for the utilization of transport equipment, their maximum re-involvement as secondary resources by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is being submitted a package of bills: amending the Tax Code, amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Budget Code, amending article 47 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act. [[on the Disposal Congregation]] The bill's package is proposed to introduce a recycling assembly for the disposal of transport equipment, which will be paid both by domestic manufacturers of transport equipment and by importers. The recycling congregation, which is paid by importers, accounts for 30 per cent of the total State Budget Fund and 70 per cent of the special State Budget Fund of Ukraine. Costs of 70 percent, as derived from the recycling congregation, are used for the production and disposal of waste generated by the loss of transport assets of their consumer properties through the State Environment Protection Fund. Domestic manufacturers will be able to count the amount of the utilization congregation for their dedicated accounts and use them exclusively in the direction of the bill. Please support these bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u95	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm asking Mikhail Chechtov to speak with the committee on Bill 11259. Then there'll be Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u96	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Decommissioned Means of Transportation, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy Suhim Jaroslav Mihajlović and Krajini. [[Registration number 11259]] The purpose of the bill is to introduce in Ukraine systems for the collection, removal, disposal and disposal of unusable wheeled vehicles of category "M" and "N" – light, freight passenger cars, buses and special means of transport, and waste generated in the process of their disposal, reducing the negative impact of these wastes on the environment and human health. During the discussion of the bill, Ukrainian national deputies stressed the importance and relevance of the problem and decided: a draft Ukrainian law on the disposal of vehicles removed from the operation of vehicles should be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and suggested that it should be accepted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u97	Thank you, too. Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, please, regarding Bills 11260, 11437.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered both bills, and more specifically, Bill 11260 of our fellow national MPs was examined. Because the Cabinet Bill was registered only yesterday, and it is clear that we were unable to hold a meeting in such a regime. But the difference between the two draft legislative acts is that the Cabinet of Ministers bill proposes the creation of a special fund at the Ministry of Ecology, which will include 70 percent of the environmental assembly for the disposal of transport equipment, and the need for the creation of special accounts for manufacturers. So this is such a key difference. There are also some technical changes, but I don't think they're important. So if we decide to support the parliamentary project, Project 11260, we will be able to reconcile those positions with the government by the second reading, and we will be able to move to a single, agreed position. I want to remind you that the size of the proposed environmental tax rates is similar to the size of the rates proposed by the Russian Federation for Ukrainian Transport Exporters. And the introduction of such an environmental tax will ensure that domestic producers who export transport products are able to remain competitive in this market. So the committee proposes to adopt Project 11260 as a basis and create a working group with the government to work together on this issue for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u99	I'm just going to add, Vitaly Juryovich and honourable colleagues, that the request was from the government and the appeal, because we need to negotiate with the Russian Federation to determine and make decisions. And if we're still creating a working group, you realize that it's going to push back the process of consulting and negotiating. So today you have to solve this issue with the government. We have to make a decision. I told you this in the morning. Let's move on. Valery Baranov, please. With regard to draft law 11442.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u100	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Bill of Amendments to Budget Code No. 11442, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, did not come to our committee and we did not consider it. But a preliminary study of the bill shows that this bill is to be adopted only if a bill is adopted to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code No. 11437, to which such a assembly will be established, and after the signature of the relevant law by the President of Ukraine. In addition, the Explanatory Note to the Bill states that this bill requires agreement with Minfin and Minusto, since the bill provides for the inclusion of this assembly in the general fund and the special State Budget Fund of 30 per cent and 70 per cent, it is necessary, together with the Ministry of Finance, to reconcile such a distribution of the congregation with the aim of maintaining the balance of the State Budget. I suggest you take it as a foundation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u101	Now, please, Glazonov Sergei. From the Committee on Environmental Policy on Bill 11443 on Environmental Protection. [[on the Disposal Congregation]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u102	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is being reviewed by a draft Act amending article 47 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We discussed it at a committee meeting today. The bill is designed to address financial and organizational issues related to the operation of the vehicle disposal system. To this end, amendments to article 47 of the Ukrainian Environmental and Environmental Protection Act are envisaged to determine that 70 percent of the utilization congregation is coming to the State Environmental Protection Fund. The bill also proposes to establish that the order in which waste is prepared and disposed of as a result of the loss of the means of transport of its consumer properties is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the draft Act amending article 47 of the Ukrainian Environmental and Environmental Protection Act and to adopt it as a basis. [[No. 11443]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u103	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Please log in. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Then Jaroslav Suhi will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, you and I are witnessing a large-scale affair today. Otherwise, it is not possible to mention the situation that has arisen with the bills that are now being proposed to us in the Chamber even as a whole. First of all, the idea itself, softly speaking, strange. No one says that every Ukrainian citizen who has to take his own car out of service will have to pay an order if I am not mistaken, 5,000 bracelets. Whoever's a private businessman is in the process of getting his own lame bus out of service, he'll have to pay 38,000 bracelets. We're only being asked to discuss where this money is going. It is a matter of Suha's proposal to add an additional 2 to 2.5 billion dollars to the State's budget. This is what he said today, and we were happy to see that if we put the congregation into the budget, 2 or 2.5 billion dollars will go into the budget. Who's gonna pay for that money? Our people. Don't you think there's bounds to be? How much money can you get from people's pockets? Who's gonna handle this money? It has just been said that this will happen, disposal and so on will be determined by some decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. If you'll excuse me, the private owner of the car won't be able to figure out the details of his car, because there will be a decision by Kabmin to do so. And he'll pay for it! Well, don't you think it's kind of a weird idea? Instead of agreeing with Russia on normal economic cooperation, and removing all of these obstacles, which are constantly being created, we are starting to come up with these strange mechanisms. And we're saying 2.5 billion dollars we're going to raise money and we're going to be doing transportation disposal for that money. This is ridiculous and you can't vote for it!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u105	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u106	Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I'll answer with a line. Deal with Russia, that means we've already entered a free trade zone with SND. Russia will now drive cars without a moment’s notice. And we're both paying, and we're paying. This is the first time. If this is about the Customs Union, it's completely different things. Why did I take the floor and sign up against it? I'm against government bills. Because the utilization congregation that we offered with my colleague Kranym is about a transparent, comprehensible payment of environmental taxes. Clear. What does the government offer? It costs a special fund, another trust fund. And in the end, as a result, all these costs go to the State Department! Whoever has a bearing on the budget now, they can understand perfectly what it represents now and will represent in the future treasury, whether we can have these funds there to dispose of. All I'm asking is that you take the law into your hands and read it. What's five grand?Oh, my God! What's 38 grand? The procedure is clearly described, which is to be disposed of and who is subject to removal from operation. Absolutely different things! We're not talking about removals from exploitation, we're talking about utilization, and who's going to do it. And who is to pay for a special congregation. I'm going to remind you once again of the main idea, the main thought that I told you about. In order to adequately address the problem of the export of Ukrainian automotive products that resulted from the introduction by the Russian Federation of a recycling congregation from means of transport, my colleague and I propose that we introduce an adequate one in the same percentage of the congregation. All of it! And that will give us the opportunity to negotiate, negotiate, what you're saying next, on some basis, on some basis. So far, we haven't had the Realization Assembly Act, we're going to have it, and we're going to have it, and on the basis of these two bills, we're going to be talking about understanding. I'm against government bills. They need to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u107	Yuri Hanustak, please, 1 minute. Then it's a Saint. Oh, he's been acting out of faction. No, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, well, first of all, what kind of project you're taking, obviously. If the government's gone blind, that's his problem. Rules are for everyone. I mean, we need to look at the project that the MPs put in. Obviously it would have taken a long time to do so. There's only really one question. To what budget? I'm a firm opponent in making this go to the state budget. This should go to local budgets because most of the cars suffer from the locals. And if it goes to the local budget, in this case they're going to be interested in getting that old man who's screwing up our backyards to take it away in some way. And in this case, really these amounts that are going to arise, if they're distributed proportionally, well, not even to the number of means of transport, or even proportional to the number of people, but to the place of registration of vehicles, in this case we can demand local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u109	Please complete your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u110	I propose, so I propose to take, vote on projects, these two projects, which are 59th, which are MPs. It's perfectly normal. And you don't have to think of it as our "Answer to Chamberlain." Such laws had to be passed for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm talking to the government. If we put to the vote now, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to support Bills 11259 and 11260, this is copyrighted, national MPs, so I understand that we are no longer considering the government? Yes or no? Well, if you have no one to answer, I can't work for you. I'll be in a position to register, to put a vote on adoption on the basis of drafts. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft law on the disposal of vehicles removed from service. [[Registration number 11259]] Please vote. [[17:41:53]] For 235 Decision taken. A proposal for adoption is now being put to the vote on the basis of draft Law 11260 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to pay the environmental tax for the disposal of vehicles removed, I stress once again, registration number 11260. Please vote. [[17:42:30.]] For 232 Decision taken. Then, dear colleagues, there is no need to vote in favour of government bills. If there is no objection, then it would be possible for honourable colleagues, if there is no objection, to adopt these two bills as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u112	There is a denial, so there is a denial. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you. I'd like that. It's all clear. We can't go against everything right now. That's the law they're in, that's what they're in. But you have to know a little bit, I think, and think there are national interests. That you have a denial. I'd like the head of the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers to consult. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of legislation in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11355]] The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I ask you to vote on this proposal. [[17:44:17]] For the 220. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Inn Jemelyanov. Vladimir Olijnik will be speaking from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u113	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending some legislation in Ukraine to bring legislation into line with the Criminal Procedure Code, which is now in force. The draft Law is designed to implement section XI, paragraph 21, of the Transitional Provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, primarily in order to bring the terminology of other laws of Ukraine into line with the new CPC. This applies to the Criminal, Criminal and Procedural Code, the Civil Procedure Code, the Code of Administrative Justice, the Customs Code, the Law on Enforcement, the Law on Prevention and Anti-Legalization and Laundering of Proceeds obtained by Crime, or the Financing of Terrorism, the "On Protection Activity" and the "On Militia". So once again, I want to reiterate that this is about bringing first and foremost the understandable apparatus used in other laws into conformity with the new Criminal Procedure Code. And the adoption of this law will eliminate the disagreement between the new KPC and other Ukrainian laws. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u114	Thank you, too. Vladimir Olijnik is the first deputy head of the committee, please. Who from the committee will be speaking? Please sign up for the performance then. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Grivkowski? He's refusing. I can't see any more. The proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u115	No, I'm laying the groundwork. With regard to bringing legislation into line with the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine. I asked you not to sign up. Registration number 11355. Please vote. [[17:46:53]] For 256 Decision taken. Yes, dear colleagues, the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food products is under consideration. [[Registration number 11299]] I'll tell you what we don't have to take, now what product you're not going to take, it says "No GMO." The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:47:45.]] For 222 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vejacheslav Kolomiyec. The focal point is the head of the Tetjan Baheev Committee. Please, who? I'm pointing out to the secretariat that you're here to give the right information: Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, honourable deputies. Indeed, the bill proposes to resolve the situation that Vladimir Mikhailovich spoke about and that has arisen since 2009. When laws were passed on information on the availability of genetically modified food products, it was 1778 and 1779. Since then, Ukraine has become the first country to oblige importing producers to mark "No GMOs" in the labelling of all, without definition, food products, even those in which GMOs cannot exist, i.e. those in which there is no protein, salt, water, products and other products. This is contrary to the requirements of both European legislation and the legislation of our neighbouring countries. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that operators of the food product label should assign information on the presence of GMOs in food products registered in the established order of genetically modified organisms and ingredients produced from registered genetically modified organisms if the GMO component exceeds 0.9 per cent or less of GMOs, if such presence is accidental or technically avoidable. On the basis of the above, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u117	Aunt Dmitryvna Bacheviv, please head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, Bill 11299 was supported by our committee on 27 November this year. As already noted, prohibit the circulation of food products that contain or use genetically modified organisms prior to their registration. Establish at the legislative level the labelling requirements for food products that require manufacturers and sellers to display information on GMOs on product labels only if the GMO content exceeds 0.9 per cent. It is a European norm, it is in the Russian Federation, it is in America, it is in Canada. In Ukraine, to date, all foodstuffs are marked “No GMOs” or “No GMOs”. The practice of applying such rules has shown their inefficiency, and our committee has repeatedly pointed out why to mark without GMOs a product that even theoretically cannot contain GMOs? This is not only pointless, but, of course, not economically justified. The Chief Research and Expert Office supports the bill and proposes to be adopted as a basis. Our Committee believes that this bill is very relevant and proposes to be adopted immediately on first reading and generally as a law, provided that the text is amended, which the Committee considers to be very important. I'm speaking under the transcript. The proposed wording of article 38, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act, as well as article 15, part 3, of the Ukrainian Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u119	Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u120	when creating, testing, transporting, using genetically modified organisms after the words "0.9 per cent" set a point. The last part of the sentence is "or with a smaller percentage of genetically modified organisms, if such presence is not accidental or technically avoidable" delete. This is a very significant change, and I therefore think that we must decide today with this amendment to adopt this bill, because this is very important for our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u121	Thank you. Please register with your respectable colleagues. Yeah, that's it, that's it. Let's see who signed up. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u122	Vladimir Karpuk. We support the adoption of this bill, both as a basis and as a whole, with the amendments discussed by Tetjana Dmitrovna -- ethics instead of labelling, which corresponds to the Food Quality and Safety Act and 0.9 of the content on the package. A bill that meets the standards and standards adopted in the European Union, the Russian Federation, the United States, Canada, and elsewhere. So really, why on a packet of salt or on a bottle of water write "no GMOs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u123	Andrey Pavlovski, BUT faction, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u124	Andrey Pavlovski, Julia Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland." Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! I think we should leave the legislation in place as it is. Ukrainian citizens have the right to know, according to the Constitution, about the content of the products they consume, about the presence of those components and ingredients, including genetically modified organisms. And for example, in the same France, there's a label that says, "no genetically modified organisms." What's scaring you? You see, even though the law that works now requires writing from GMOs where it is, no manufacturer conceals this information and does not write it. What will happen next? If we accept this bill of government. What they're not going to do is not just write "without GMOs" where it is. And that is, people will have no information whatsoever about what they are eating, what ingredients there, which may not be for the benefit of human health. So in this case, it is better to keep that active version of the Population Information Act on GMOs in food that is available. And if there are some stupidities and inadequacies, this is a matter for executive authority: Why did the government's rulings not settle the question that a gorilla should not be written on mineral water where there is no GMO? This is a technical question and a question for the prosecution: why doesn't it track down how the current legislation, by the way, is being implemented for two years? So the question to the government: Why does he not investigate how the law already passed is being implemented? That's why our faction counts. Considers that in no case can this be supported; let there remain existing legislation. And let our manufacturers, if we don't have GMOs, write "without GMOs," it's for them to advertise clean products. So we support our native Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u125	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u126	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the introduction of the "no GMO" mark in Ukraine is more ritualistic and it is written where it is needed and where it is not needed. If it's written that there's no GMO, then look carefully, there's a GMO. I would like to go back to the government with such a proposal that the government would better inform the Ukrainian society about what cultures and what areas we have in terms of quantities that are genetically modified, and they are necessarily produced by products that are then fed to our citizens. I propose that the government and the deputies in the new cabinet prepare a bill to prohibit the use of tropical fats in our products. You know what a huge problem this is. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine is not going to support this bill, because it essentially doesn't decide anything. And all Ukrainian citizens know that if it's spelled "no GMO," it means that it's exactly as much GMO as it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. A proposal is put to the vote. Well, we're in no hurry. The proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on informing the population about the content of genetically modified organisms in food products, taking into account the clarifications made by the head of the committee of Tetjan Bacheviv. [[Registration number 11299]] Based on the base. [[17:58:30.]] For 236 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a proposition: to give the committee a mandate to prepare the bills that we've adopted as a basis: 11259 and 11260, for the second reading on a reduced procedure, that is, on December 4. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I asked them to reconcile positions. The Committees, the Cabinet of Ministers, proposed such a decision. Once again, I am putting to the vote the proposal that committees, the relevant committees, should prepare for the second reading of Bills 11259, 11260 in a simplified procedure. There's going to be a reboot of the Council information system and then there's going to be a vote. So hold on. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're waiting. We're waiting, dear fellows. In a tight wait. The thing is, since the Supreme Council usually works until 6:00, we need to reboot the computer now to make it work. So you can work successfully until 10:00. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Now. But we need to do it again. Let's move on to the next bill. Once again, as we agreed, a reduced procedure. The system's ready. Dear colleagues, there is a motion for a vote to be put to the vote for the commission of professional committees to prepare Bills 11259, 11260 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the second reading, following a reduced procedure, that is, for the next plenary week. Please vote. [[18:01:45]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamental Principles of State Control in the Field of Economic Activity is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 11351]] The Committee requests that the matter be examined in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:02:22]] For 216 Decision taken. Reporter is Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko, please. The reporter is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u128	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft Ukrainian law foresees a ban on one sub? During the calendar year, a separate control body has introduced a cut-off mechanism in the medium and low-risk subjects solely according to the court’s decision. The bill is aimed at substantially reducing administrative pressure on entrepreneurs by imposing restrictions on the intervention of entities of authority in the business activity and by preventing an unjustified interruption of the controlling body and the business activity of entrepreneurs. The adoption of the bill will allow a change of approach to State oversight of economic activity, which will contribute to the steady development of entrepreneurship, the reduction of corruption and administrative pressure on economic operators. Given the above, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u129	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u130	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the bill. The purpose of the bill is to establish, at the legislative level, a restriction and an undue or unnecessary interference of the officials of the control bodies with the activities of the control and control bodies. The members of the committee, after discussing the draft law, noted that its adoption would establish on a legislative level the responsibility of the officials of the supervisory authorities for failing to comply with the State oversight procedure. But it will help to develop competition, reduce administrative pressure on operators. In view of the above, the members of the committee propose to the Supreme Council to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u131	Thank you. Dear colleagues! What, shall we vote? Well, write it down, then. Yes, name of the national MPs. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction. Then there's Stanislaw Arzevite.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u132	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, in principle, the law can be good, but there's always a spoon in every barrel of honey. Well, I mean the last sentence, because in case I read "if the damage to the property is caused by it, by natural or legal persons, by the State, provided that there is no criminal liability for any infringement of the requirements for the conduct of the business, there is no outside-of-plan State oversight. I mean, what is it? This is a hidden blackmail of entrepreneurs. I mean, we suspect you're having some kind of trouble. We'll do a background check for you. Pay the money. So that's what this phrase says about these things. The pre-planned examinations should be conducted solely on the basis of a court’s decision. So this amendment to the law has to be definite. And in this case, this "repurchase" doesn't work. Why? Because when they go, when the controlling authority goes to the subject, he says that we have, look, there's a reason for doing this, we have data that you didn't pay. Yes. And you don't have to do any checks at all, or even threaten to do tests, because in this case it's a discrepancy in the balance sheet report that can be removed in the working order. Hence, these things must be taken into account for the second reading. Well, in more detail, we have to write down the order of coordination of activities from the checking parties. Why? Because it can't be translated into Kabmin. It's about people, not organs, some organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u133	Yes, please, Stanislaw Arzhevtin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u134	Please pass the word to Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u135	Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u136	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Unfortunately, I have no villas. Although Oleg Lazko rightly says that these questions need to be resolved with the villas. I'm not going to support this bill, as I don't support this government, Azarov, because he needs to get his things and go, go faster. Because his place will then be where Yuri Lucenka is today. You don't have to do this, Mikola Janovich. You're doing a lot of damage to your work and your legislation, especially at this time, when all government officials on January 1st were in a mood, and they were planning on you promising them the truth from the advertising shields, and you're taking 24 billion now from all government officials. So you're a government of liars, liars, as they say in Ukraine today. You're a brich, if you say so, as you say in our Ukrainian language. And now, about that remark that Hanuchtzak made. Absolutely correct remark I made. And by the way, the science-expert management of the stone didn't leave it on this project, it said that it was appropriate to return it for further consideration. And I want to add some more notes to the comments that are not in scientific expertise. Please see what the government is offering. He proposes instead of what is already envisaged, what is coordination among each other, and he suggests that they be set up when complex measures are being taken to ensure that they are carried out in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[This is part two of article 4, "General requirements for supervision"]] So it's not the law that will determine how these random checks will be conducted and so on, and the Cabinet of Ministers will determine. No, Mikola Janovich, I wouldn't trust you to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u137	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. Therefore, I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Basic Principles for State Supervisory in the Field of Economic Activity on the Limitation of Intervention of Operators. [[Registration number 11351]] Please vote. [[18:10:18]] For 223 Dear colleagues, let's get back to the debate, but I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, don't scream!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u138	Vladimir Mikhailovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u139	Well, I, I beg you, don't shout! I'm talking to... let's work!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u140	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u141	I'm on the Rules! I'm in the rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote on the return to the draft Law (registration number 11351).
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u142	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, this is not according to the Rules!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u143	By the rules. [[18:10:58]] For 232 We're back. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft law. [[Registration number 11351]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u144	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, secure a roll call.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u145	By the way, your honorary colleagues, it's an open-ended roll-call vote, and more importantly, the Supreme Council has decided to act in this way. [[18:11:23]] For 236 Decision taken. This is the first reading, yes. A draft Act amending the Law on Milk and Milk Products and other legislative acts on strengthening measures to combat the falsification of dairy products is now under consideration. [[Registration number 11177]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:12:02]] For 224 Decision taken. The reporter is National Deputy Andriy Derkac. The spokesman is the head of the Committee, Gregory Kaletnik. Yeah, is there a reporter and a co-reporter? None. So let's not look at it. A draft Act amending article 85 of the Ukrainian Budget Code is being announced for consideration. [[on the financing of higher health institutions, postgraduate education]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:12:48]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gennady Samofalov. The spokesman is the head of the Valeriy Baranov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u146	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to point out that there is no policy in the proposed bill, only the life and health of the people. Historically, there has been a situation in which the department of higher health care and basic preventive care institutions, complementing each other, provide a full range of health services to the population, and receive funding from each source. As of June 2012, there are very large areas that have to be used for higher education institutions. The clinics of 18 higher educational institutions are located on 1,000 861 clinic bases, 933 treatment and prevention facilities of various types of property and subordination. Each year, some 500,000 operational interventions and one and a half million consultations are carried out free of charge by pulpit workers. Since the adoption of the Budget Code and the delimitation of state and local budgets, legal grounds have changed and the legal basis for the cooperation of state institutions for higher health education, public budget funding, and city health facilities and areas that are subject to and financed by the local budget. The co-operation of state institutions for higher health education and municipal treatment and prevention institutions is in contradiction with the Ukrainian Budget Code, which has been repeatedly highlighted by the audit authority. This resulted in the need for a solution to the legal community, which is decided by the proposed draft decree in the following edition. In part 2 of article 85 after the words "any date" add the words "and also in case."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u147	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valery Baranov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u148	The Committee on Budget Issues, at its meeting on 6 November, considered the bill on the basis of the formula proposed and determined not to maintain one institution from different budgets, but to provide financial security for two institutions in one room. That is, there is an attempt to determine the contractual relationship between such institutions. Such a proposal does not fully correspond to the subject of the provisions of article 85, section 2, of the Code of Budgets. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus makes a number of remarks to this bill. The Ministry of Finance has repeatedly pointed out that such a legislative proposal is inappropriate in the light of the settlement of the affected issue by the government’s decision, such as the government’s order of January 11, this year, number 4P. In addition, on October 16, this year, changes were made to the Budget Code, including section 2 of article 85, which allows for the exception of expenditure on the maintenance of budgetary institutions at the same time as the various budgets decided by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thus, the Budget Code gives the right to regulate the violation of Bill No. 8793 by decision of the government. The bill then loses its relevance. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u149	Dear colleagues, shall we vote? Please sign in. Yes, please state the names of the national deputies on the board. Stanislaw Arzeviteen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u150	Please hand Yuri Carmazin over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u151	Yes, please, Yuri Carmazin. Then Gennady Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u152	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! I'd like to say that what's going on in health today, I don't know if Mrs. Batteeva is here right now? Yes. Yes. Aunt Dmitry, this isn't the Ministry of Health right now, it's the Ministry of Statistics for Funeral Health. Therefore, please write down while this Supreme Council is still in operation and further questions need to be asked about the immediate removal from the office of Health Minister of Raisa Bogatirov. Too much attention to the entourage, the second floor to repair, with security, and so on and so on and zero attention to the work. As a result, it is obvious that they will never reach it. And this legislative initiative has arisen because no decision will be taken by the government. And I support this bill, it's right and essentially, and in shape, it needs to be supported. I'm surprised why our colleague Baranov said the committee didn't support him. He needs to be supported. And I went to the government with questions, with references, with everything about the invention of the brilliant Ukrainian physician Anatoly Ivanovich Potopalski, man invented drugs for cancer, AIDS, tuberculosis. Bringing them in is our obligation to mankind. And we don't. You can't even get an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister. Apparently, this is how they react because it is convenient to sit on foreign drugs today, on foreign chemistry, on all of this. Because of this, dear friends, read the conclusion of scientific expertise, they agree with the law, they agree with the draft law, it's good, it's right, it really needs to be financed from that budget, because these institutions have to survive because medicine has to survive, regardless.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u153	Thank you, Gennady Samofalov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Eugene Kirilchuk will be next. She's handing over the right to speak to Ganoszczak, isn't she?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u154	I would agree with the statement made by the Chairman of the Budget Committee if it were not one "but". This bill was almost a year and a half. Everything was making the right decisions by the Government, but it is not working today and will probably not be working anytime soon, because the new Government will not be working until now. The situation is this: today, on the committee, we listened to the chief cardiologist in Ukraine. He said that the heart centre of Kiev in twenty regions carried out cardiovascular operations. There's no spending material because he doesn't have any finances. He was given expendable material on the ground, but he had already entered into a violation of the Budget Code, which required different responsibilities, up to the criminal level. And we can't let that happen today. I can give other examples when there are unique equipment that is not available in medical facilities. Higher education institutions represent him, work him, perform 5,000 operations a year. One-and-a-half million - hold consultations, improve the professional level of doctors. That's what we need today. Again, they are in breach of the Budget Code. I therefore propose that this draft law be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u155	Yuri Hanustzak, Faction of the Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, the Budget Code refers to organic laws -- this is the Bible. And you can't make changes for every "pig" there, it's a certain system. The distribution of budgetary levels follows the principle of subsidiarity, that is, the lowest level at which sufficient quality can be served. I mean, what's this all about? If some level isn't working out, like the village, there, rural councils, or district councils, there's a point to transfer the whole function to the next level. Why is this necessary? Because the main thing is uniformity, comparability gives the Budget Code. So we can say where better, where worse, just by comparing uniform systems. I’m not saying that if you make any changes, it’s not exactly 85 articles that tell you the general principles of transfer, not sectoral ones, namely health care or education. What, we don't have that kind of education problem? Once again, if you want to solve the problem, put the whole function into the state budget. You can't finance the same budget institution from two budgets for one reason -- this is the calculation -- once, secondly, it's who makes the decision: the state either takes the local government or how they're connected; and the third thing is there's a basis for blackmail. So what does the state do? I didn't fund you. You're looking for money. You're right. So if there's no clear level, then blackmail goes to the benefit of someone who's stronger. The state will not finance what is allowed to be financed at other levels. So if you want to do something good, you're actually going to do something bad for local self-government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u157	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee recommends that the bill be rejected. In accordance with the Rules, I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending article 85 of the Ukrainian Budget Code. [[on the financing of higher health institutions, postgraduate education]] [[Registration number 8793]] Please vote. [[18:23:54]] For 244 Decision taken. Announcing draft law 11397. A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. [[18:24:34]] For 213 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the reporter is Valery Baranov, please. We still have a little work to do. I'd like you to mobilize, after all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u158	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable deputies, the Committee on Budget Affairs prepared a bill at its meeting on 20 November, and considered a bill on amendments to the State Budget Act in a co-worked committee. [[No. 11397]] The bill was supported by the Ministry of Finance and Ukraine. The additional Ministry of Finance has proposed in this bill to take into account the issue of lowering budget rates under certain investment programmes implemented by the State of Foreign Credit. In view of Minfin’s proposals, the additional need for road development costs of 1.1 billion dollars is partly offset by a reduction in the cost of other investment projects of 404 million dollars. It is worth noting that the inclusion of credit resources takes place under the ratified International Contracts of the Supreme Council, where the sample of credit costs is carried out within the total amount of credit is carried out within the scope of the total amount of credit provided for by the credit agreements, depending on the actual state of implementation of the project. In general, the bill is balanced by the revenue and expenditure of the State budget. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 11397, which had been supplemented by the Committee on Budgets, to adopt as a basis and as a whole as a law. Taking into account the need to clarify the budget figures in the text and in the additions to the bill when the Supreme Council considers and adopts other similar bills before considering the project. Thus, in the case of the adoption of the bill, the Committee on Budget Issues, together with the Chief Legal Authority in the drafting of the law, should submit to it, the text and Appendices, the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications relating to the approved committee's decision on the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you, sit down, please. Let's vote, shall we? Please sign up. Well, please, well, they've all been tortured. Please sign up. Vladimir Karpuk. Is he passing on Stanislav Arjevetina? Stanislaw Arzewittin, then Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u159	Yes, I'd like you to pass it on to Arjevitina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u160	Dear National Deputies! I came out here to say that you and I are going to make decisions like this, now that we're going to make these decisions, we're going to encourage a balance sheet, if you want, of the monetary and credit activities of those operators that get these loans. I wanted to point out that the bill that we considered last time and sent it out for consideration was exclusively about roads. Now in this bill, we are still correcting five or six other programs financed by international financial institutions, and we are moving away from our previous bill. Please tell us why we allow those officials who have proved to us that they do not carry out their obligations in one way or another, in the fourth and fifth programs that we are correcting. They don't choose the loans they told us about here. By the way, under international agreements, we're going to pay interest rates equally. Why do we allow this immobility of these officials who are sitting in one or the other ministries to prove to us that a project is very important and that we allow ourselves to use those funds from international financial organizations? So I don't understand why we've submitted a bill with one subject under consideration, we've now introduced adjustments to the state finance modernization programme, modernization of the tax service, financing of urban infrastructure, sanitation, improvement of social assistance and so on. Why do we allow it? Why aren't those credit agreements that we voted for here being implemented? I think it's a harmful practice that balances and allows those officials who are responsible for a project to do so. So it's obvious that this bill needs to be supported and that the billion we're talking about has to be supported by the infrastructure that the State Road Agency is responsible for. So I would vote for these changes in the budget, but I'm against the harmful practice that we're allowing to introduce here and with our hands, this is to cover the infallible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u161	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u162	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen, well, from the point of view of money being involved in the development budget, it's a welcome. What's more, I put in a bill that most people don't want to consider because, well, they don't want to, because opposition projects don't consider that deficits only vote in part of the development budget. But I want to pay attention to what? For the very bad planning that our government is carrying out. Because these things have to come up with a government budget project. And they're only here right now. Well, it's wrong to say that it's balanced by revenue and expenditure, because it's always balanced. It's not balanced by income and expenditure. So we have an additional billion deficits. That's up to the billion that was planned for 30. The 30's, the social initiatives that aren't covered. Up to the 16ths that have been written in us, well, the private sector. So together we're going to have 100 billion deficits just this year, which actually ends with the government choosing what to finance. And we don't actually have enough money to finance everything that's budgeted and even pay. And treasury practically doesn't pay any local budgets. Because 20 billion didn't bet once. And even what's coming to local budgets, the treasury doesn't miss. You remember that you once wanted to judge the head of the Treasury for blocking it on December 31 and for failing to finance it. Now we have November, not funding. Why? Because there are some lobbyists' demands, and they say, "Financing me now, and the local budgets will survive." You can't do that. Because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u163	Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. May I have your attention, please, to prepare for the vote. I'm betting on voting on the committee's proposal for a draft law to adopt it, oh, I'm sorry, I'm already confused. It's a bill to approve the project as a law. [[Registration number 11397]] Please vote. [[18:32:51]] For 215 I'm betting on the vote on the return to the bill. [[Registration number 11397]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u164	You can do it once. Prepare for the vote. Vote, please. [[18:33:20]] For 217 It's not a decision, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] a draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs (for rates for State registration of immovable property rights) (registration No. 8296, 8296-d) has been announced for consideration. I would like to vote on the motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[18:34:00]] For 219 Decision taken. The reporter for the Deputy Justice Minister is Dmitri Voron. Another Jemelyanov, right? First Deputy Minister, please. And the head of the Vitaly Hometics Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u165	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs to establish rates for the conduct of State registration of immovable property rights. In particular, it is suggested that the following bets be set: for the registration of property rights for immovable property of 7 untaxed minimums and for the registration of another immovable property right and for the limitation of the right to immovable property of 3 untaxed minimums. Ladies and gentlemen, these changes must be accepted today because, as of January 1, the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights has become effective. It is therefore necessary to amend the State Customs Decree on the establishment of registration rates for goods rights. The government supports a government bill, which has been co-worked by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking of Tax and Customs Policy, which will report to the next committee head, Hmotinnik Vitali Juriovich. In particular, the bill proposes to remove the provisions for the establishment of state-owned property registration rates that were created and registered by 1 January 2012. And the request to support a bill that has been drafted by the Committee of the Supreme Council, both in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u166	Thank you. Vitali Juryovich, please make a decision to the committee and we will vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u167	Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, a respected colleague, the distinction between these two bills, the Cabinet and the Committee, is that the Cabinet of Ministers, in its project, has left a position that foresees that the owners of the immovable property that made his registration in BTI by 1 January 2012 will be obliged to re-register the same property, already in the newly created State Register of Real Estate Rights and to pay the State Customs. The committee took a stand against this position and in a detailed edition, which was presented by the committee under 8296-d, this question is excluded. All the rest of the betting positions remained the same as in the Cabinet of Ministers. So the committee's proposal is to support Bill 8296-d as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, the prime minister agrees that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider and adopt a bill that has been drafted by the committee. Yeah? There's no denying it. Let's take it, please. There's nothing in the first reading. You can't raise money anymore, you know. Let me put it in order of order. The first is the draft government law. [[Registration number 8296]] I'd like to make a statement. [[18:37:58]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for approval of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' Decree on State Customs. [[on rates for the conduct of State registration of immovable property rights]] [[Registration number 8296-d]] Please vote. [[18:38:30.]] For 233 The law is passed. It is announced for consideration of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State Service. [[Registration number 10728]] A motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure is put to the vote. But the question is: If we have suspended him for a year, is there a need to make changes? [[18:39:01]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter is the first deputy head of the National Agency for State Service Igor Popov. The reporter is Vasil Demchischen. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u169	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The adoption of the proposed draft law will ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Law on State Service in the new edition, will address the disciplinary and property responsibility of the employees of the public authorities, and will stop the service of such persons, not in accordance with the legislation on work, but with the Law on State Service. The draft law proposes to amend these three laws. The first is the Ukrainian Diplomatic Service Act, in particular the requirements for professional competence and the grounds for termination of diplomatic service in accordance with the Ukrainian State Service Act. The second is the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations on Property Responsibility in the Order of the Ukrainian Act on State Service. And the third is the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee Act on Involvement in Criminal Responsibility of Officials. This law will take effect at the same time as the entry into force of the new State Service Act, because the new State Service Act has not been rejected, but has simply been transposed at the time of its entry into force, it is logical to continue working on a regulatory basis for its implementation. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u170	Basil Demchisin, head of the Committee on State Building and Local Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u171	Honorary colleagues, the committee discussed at its meeting a bill amending some Ukrainian laws in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian State Service Act, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and designed to ensure the implementation of certain requirements of the Ukrainian State Service Act, in particular the Laws on Local Government Administrations, the Antimonopoly Committee, the diplomatic service. [[Registration number 10728]] In its conclusion to the bill, the main scientific and expert body makes conceptual remarks to its position and believes that it is appropriate to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. The Committee on Foreign Affairs recommends that a bill be adopted with a warning that article 14 should not be excluded from the text of the Ukrainian Law on Diplomatic Service, which would have a negative impact on the formation and professional level of diplomatic personnel in Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs concluded that the bill had no impact on the budget. The committee concluded that some of the provisions of the bill were made by the comments that we noted in our application. And I recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u172	So, we vote, right? Well, please, write down who you want to talk to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u173	I give up my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u174	He's refusing. Dear colleagues, then the proposal to adopt a bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on State Service is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10728]] Please vote. [[18:43:16]] For 235 Decision taken. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning national commissions for regulating natural monopolies is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10650]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[The voice from the hall. Say something.]] [[18:43:52]] For 219 I'm not saying "something," I'm saying what 219 people supported. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Pavlenko, co-rapporteur Alexy Plotnikov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u175	Mr. Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, you have before you a bill that provides for the establishment of the interaction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with national commissions that carry out national regulations in the field of natural monopolies. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers, on prices and pricing, the Cabinet of Ministers ensure that pricing policies are implemented. Considering that one of the tasks of the commission is to regulate prices, tariffs and services, which have a decisive impact on the overall level and dynamics of prices in the state and have an important socio-economic significance, the imbalance in their decision-making on pricing issues could lead to widespread inflation in the state and social tensions in society. The interaction of the Cabinet of Ministers with the Commission is envisaged by amending articles 9 and 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, according to which commissions will take into account, inter alia, basic macroeconomic indicators, and article 17 of the Law on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes on the inclusion of commissions in the list of participants in State forecasting and development of economic, social development programmes. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u176	Thank you, too. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Plonikov Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u177	The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 18 September 2012 considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending certain Ukrainian laws on national commissions for regulating natural monopolies. [[Protocol 94]] [[Registration number 10650]] The committee. The main scientific and expert office believes that the first reading of the bill may be based on a basis. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on national commissions for regulating natural monopolies. [[Registration number 10650]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u178	Dear colleagues! The report and the report are done. Please sign up for the discussion. Names of the national deputies. Yuri Hanustak. Then Yuri Karmazin, then Grivkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u179	Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, there is a problem. Why is there a problem? Because in fact we have price and tariff regulation going in some way away from the general context of the things that are happening in the state. So the commission is acting on its own, and the government is acting on its own. And the goal of interaction is to take macroeconomic indicators into account -- that's a pretty good approach. But I'm also looking at the technique of the law itself, and I see, even this article about the interaction of the commission with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Commission are holding consultations. And one last question. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers with the right to advise may participate in the meetings of the committees. Well, he doesn't play here a bit. I mean, the Cabinet of Ministers in person, who's he running? When it comes to what should be the body responsible for the reconciliation, write directly: The Ministry of Economics and other members of the government are taking part in this meeting. I mean, I can't see the technology of these consultations right now. As it says in the bill, it doesn't play a bit. The Cabinet of Ministers is a whole body, a whole body and there, if members participate, it is no longer an advisory body. This time. It's also a consultation. As a result of the consultations, either a decision or a protocol decision is taken, and after that, what is the obligation? He's bound to regulate, he's making his own decisions. Then there is the question of how much of the results of the consultations are required? Is it the controller's Jail? It's not described here in the bill. So that's what you need to think of when the bill is being finalized in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u180	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u181	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Protectors of the Homeland, Ukrainian Opposition My colleague Hanustzak, speaking of the Cabinet of Ministers as a whole, apparently meant a collegiate body. But we have no collegiality in that body, no common sense. As a result, it is said that improvements are taking place. In fact, we have seen today when all the civil servants were put in such a position that they were expected to improve for the next year. The election's over. I think there's going to be improvement in the other direction. Well, for example, people ask me all the time, and who was asked by the government that he, on a cruiser's ticket, had suddenly made the price two and a half times higher than she had been before? Two and a half times higher! Where? Is there anyone here who'd like to be represented by a bunch of punks? I beg you, tell Azar to count that it's not worth 10 or 15 copies! That's how the price went up, by the way! And we don't react to that. Or right now we have the same thing with electricity. Or water does the same thing. And we don't see or react. That's why we don't have a government. As to whether a law should be passed or not, a similar law was evidently to be passed. But the government is not even able to understand that the decrees are long overdue in summer. And he's telling us to change the decrees. And we just voted, Mikhail Vasilovich. You're a systematic person, you've voted to amend the decrees yet. Think about when the Kuchma government was when there were decrees. Under the new Constitution, there are no decrees, there are laws, and you make changes to the decrees. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u182	Yuri Anatolyevich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u183	I'm done. Because, Your Honor, I am firmly opposed to the government's interaction with the National Commissions on the regulation of natural monopolies, on which people are not talking about decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u184	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to listen to Yuri Anatoliovich and vote in favour of adopting the bill as a basis for the first reading. The proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law, registration number 10650, to amend certain laws of Ukraine regarding national commissions for regulating natural monopolies. Please vote. [[18:52:05]] For 231 Decision taken. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. For what reason?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u185	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, we have two laws left, but they are very important. However, the disputed law 10637 and 10637-1 are MPs and government, they require further agreement so that we do not overturn them. The same bill 10645 is also a very important bill of government. But we need further harmonization so we don't burn the law again. Therefore, please move the consideration of these bills to the next plenary day and at the same time include and consider on first reading the Martinenka Bill 10571 on the principles of the functioning of Ukraine's electricity market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u186	Please, Yuri Carmazin. He's the author of one of the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u187	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin. Dear People's Deputies, Your Honor Mikhailo Vasilovich, I am addressing you personally to understand what this is about. A bill to amend certain property valuation laws was introduced so that the government would not usurp these things when it created for several of its evaluators, well, from a certain environment. It was in order to stop this vacchanal that this bill was introduced, to which is the positive response of our scientific expertise and our Ukrainian people. In order to prevent the monopolization that Azarov was doing, this bill was introduced by Karmazin. I think you should take it, look closely. As far as the introduction of other laws is concerned. I remind the rule that they should be voted in the morning session, only to be included in the agenda. We no longer have the right to bring others in. Either we're looking at these, or we're not looking at anything anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u188	Sergei Sas and we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u189	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to see you. Who is in charge of the Supreme Council: Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin or Misha is the "gold pen" that now commands what laws to pass that do not accept?Oh, my God! Vladimir Mikhailovich, if these laws are included in the agenda, you are obliged to consider them. That's the first one. And if you consider those who are not involved, really the right Carmazin, which should have been included according to, if I am not mistaken, the parts of the fifth article 47 in the morning session in the agenda. And stop what's going on, because it can't handle any criticism at all!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u190	Well, I'm told that Bill 10571 was already included in the agenda. As far as Bills 10637, 10637-1 and 10645 are concerned, let's consult with you here without discussing who runs the Supreme Council. Because the Head of the Supreme Council does not run the Supreme Council, he holds a meeting of the Supreme Council, as it is written in the Constitution. So if you don't want to vote today, that means this bill is going to be overrun. So maybe it's better, though, if this statement is spoken, well, listen, please, it's equivalent to not voting. Working on a basket, I don't think anybody wants to do that. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote right now. First. It's about putting an end to the two bills that have just been discussed. If we don't support it, we'll consider it. And the next proposal is to look at the bill. They support us, we look at us, we don't support us, we don't look at us, we don't look at everything. So I'm voting on a proposal that just came out. In view of the unwillingness to make decisions on two bills to postpone their consideration. [[Registration numbers 10637, 10637-1 and 10645]] Please vote. [[6:56:48]] For 235 Decision taken. Next. Who's it for, dear fellows, to consider now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u191	Yes, you can! I want to say again, it's in the agenda, I don't want to look at it, but the proposal did. You'd better not vote. Who's in favour of supporting the proposal to review the draft Law. [[Registration number 10571]] Please vote. [[6:57:34]] For 233 Decision taken. Thus, honourable colleagues are invited to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[18:57:59]] For 228 Decision taken. The reporter is Igor Głushchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u192	Honourable Volodymira Mihajlovich, honourable national deputies, draft Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Electricity Market of Ukraine was developed taking into account article 2 of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Agreement on the Establishment of Energy Cooperation, ratified by the Ukrainian Law of 15.12.2010. [[No. 2787]] The main purpose of the bill is to liberalise Ukraine's wholesale electricity market, to ensure a stable and unbreakable supply of electricity to consumers of Ukraine and to increase the efficiency of the electricity sector through the introduction of competition in all segments of the electricity market and to stimulate investment in the production, transmission and supply of electricity. The draft law ensures the creation of a competitive internal market by regulating the functioning of Ukraine's electricity market on the basis of equal access to the electricity market, equality of rights of sale and purchase of electricity, free choice of energy supply to consumers, equal access to the main and interstate and local local electricity networks, the functioning of competitive electricity markets, the bilateral contracts market, the forward market, the balancing market, the auxiliary services market, the fragmented electricity market, and the regulation of settlement between participants in the electricity market. The provisions of the draft law define the powers and functions of State authorities and electricity market entities in relation to electricity market activities, the authority of the central executive authority in the field of power and power, which is the national authority in the field of power and power. During the discussion of the bill, a number of suggestions and comments came to the text from the Ministry of Education and other central executive authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u193	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u194	The National Energy Regulatory Commission, as well as the Secretariat for Energy Cooperation of the World Bank, the European Business Association, the American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine, the Expert Environment. All the comments and suggestions made were carefully analysed and largely taken into account in the process of drafting Bill 10571 in the course of its consideration by the Supreme Council Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex and Nuclear Safety. It is considered that the adoption of the draft Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Electricity Market will ensure the fulfilment of Ukraine’s international obligations, allowing for the introduction into the electricity sector of Ukraine of a leading implementation. I would like the Supreme Council to support the bill that the committee has worked on in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u195	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Sign up. If it doesn't, we'll see. Sign up. Fedun. Don't insist. Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u196	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Dear National Deputies! The bill is too complicated to be viewed as a failure, as it is now, at the end of a working day, and large in scope. I just want to make it clear to our radio audiences that some of the comments of the Scientific and Experimental Authority to this law are on the 10 pages. You can imagine how many problems have been raised here, including the problems that I see will lead to an increase in the price of the Ukrainian people to the population. So obviously not the economic situation right now, so that we all have the investment component to compensate investors today, obviously not that we have the situation in the state right now, obviously not that. It says here: the government's task is to provide funding for the purchase of NEC Ukrenergo software and so on. So this, we have it right in the law, to whom to provide and purchase? And this is what we are offered to accept under the veil of Parliament's activities? I would like to caution against adopting such bills. If there's enough power to sell the adoption of this bill in the first reading, I ask you to put in a transcript that I strongly deny the adoption of this bill as a whole. I'm going to write at least half a hundred amendments and that's the right thing to do, because it's taxpayers' costs, it's our money with you. And we're not going to accept how the people who bought Oblenergo, all the other companies, are still thinking about how to get something by using slogans.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u197	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. One minute from the faction. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u198	The Party of the Regions never decides to support that bill or other through the author's political identification, regardless of whether it is our author or the author of our political opponents - if the law is normal, we support it. The author is one of the leaders, not one of the leaders, but the leader of Martinenko. And Martinenko. Seems like we didn't have a chance to vote, but we're a bill. We have seen good grain in this, and we propose to support the bill to all the halls, because it is indeed necessary for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u199	Dear colleagues, the proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Principles for the Functioning of Ukraine’s Electricity Market. [[19:05:15]] For 226 The factions, please. The Party of the Regions – 178, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 7. Dear colleagues, the draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption as a law of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum is being announced. [[Registration number 6278-P]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Sas. And from the committee. The head of the McKeenko Committee, please. Sergei Sas is a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u200	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Honorable colleagues! Unfortunately, there has been a tradition in Parliament -- a regular violation of the procedure when considering drafts. I find it difficult to recall in the last session which bill was considered with respect to the procedure. If this tradition becomes a transitional disease in Parliament and the seventh vocation, a great cross will have to be placed on Parliamentaryism in Ukraine. An incident that occurred. What happened to Bill 6228 in general is unprecedented. On July 3, 2010, the bill was adopted in the first reading. On 7 July he was considered in a second reading and directed at re-reading to the committee in view of the fact that part of his position contradicts the position of the Constitution of Ukraine. And literally on November 6th, the committee did not consider this bill, the comparative table did not form, they crossed out the proposals of the national deputies, over 900 proposals were made, and at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, despite the fact that the committee had not made any decision, at the suggestion of one of the deputies, Chairman Adam Martinyuk at that meeting, had set up the adoption of the law in the first reading and in general. I will not go any further, but the point of this law is that it leads to the creation of conditions for the coup d'état in Ukraine. So we just have to warn the citizens of Ukraine. The Rules Committee has not considered this draft regulation, so we cannot even consider this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u201	Microphone. Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u202	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The Rules Committee did not consider this draft regulation by 48 articles of the Rules within a defined three-day period, so we have no reason to consider this bill now. But once again, you will wave your hand, close your eyes, and make what you are told is a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u203	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. As you know, Your Honor, this question is being discussed in a simplified procedure. Please sign up. But there's a rule that says it's shorter. Please sign up. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikhailo Chechetov and Yuri Prokopchuk Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u204	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I understand we're all tired. But when I objected to the previous speaker, I wanted to say one thing. What the Committee had considered, the Committee had not considered, had adopted a positive decision, had taken a negative decision, the final decision was taken by the session room. And the session room, he always puts the last stop. That's why we're going to set the last point. Even if the Committee did not support it, the sessional room served as a referee, in accordance with the powers conferred on it by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u205	Mikola Tomenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u206	Dear colleagues! I think that in the absence of time many colleagues did not familiarize themselves with the Referendum Act. And so we didn't get to know the 16 pages of the findings of Science and Technology. What the bill foresees. The bill provides for any moment when the political relevance dictates a referendum on a particular issue -- within five days, the Central Election Commission should decide on the validity of one or the other questions. Form commissions by the local authority system through the heads of district councils that are in the system of district administrations. Political parties are completely outside the referendum process, which is completely contrary to the standards for holding a referendum. And the referendum says, you could have 10 questions, you could have 15 questions that conflict with the ideology itself of holding a referendum. Well, for example, the following year, a new edition of the Constitution will be published, and 300 people's deputies will be proposed. The Ukrainian people will happily support this decision, well, along with the election of the President in Parliament. And the decision is made by the Central Election Commission without any decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- a change to the Constitution becomes valid. Let's go to a new election. We're interested in opposition. I think the Party of Regions will be happy to support the next year's election for the next year, where there will be 300 national deputies. A referendum on this law can be held simultaneously with the parliamentary and presidential elections, which directly contradicts the ideology of the referendum. Because presidential elections, the President's election, Parliamentary elections, and referendums, are defined by the country's development strategy. We move here or we move here in another way. So on the 16 pages, our science and expertise office wrote that this has nothing to do with the ideology of democracy and the principles of direct democracy through the referendum proposed in the bill. We're sad to note this fact and we think that with such a document, well, it's going to be taken, well, we can make any decision, whether it's going to be the Customs Union or the Supreme Council of 50 people. So my colleague Sass and I also called attention to the violation of the procedure for considering the bill, because he was on second reading and, of course, on ideology. I think with that law, well, we'll go a long way. And it's not the Supreme Council that's going to make decisions, it's the President's Administration and the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u207	Dear colleagues, all who signed up, spoke on this matter. Here, I think it's quite obvious that we all needed a new Supreme Council to work exclusively in the legal field. For if it is convenient, they are looking for some reason to do what is right. For example, in 2007, elections were held on time, and the Supreme Council was launched. Although I am personally grateful. We managed to return to the Supreme Council. But let us all look objectively at how we work in the new Supreme Council. We're totally working, breaking any standards. But together with the introduction of a draft decree on the annulment of article 48, the committee is obliged to consider it within three days. Unfortunately, the committee did not consider the bill. What do you want to do? To consider it in the Supreme Council is likely to do so again if we urge one another and turn one another to observe the Rules. Let's stick to it. That is why we have considered this issue again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And the decision to repeal the adopted law is made by a simple majority, that is, 226 votes. I am voting on a motion for the adoption of a decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt as the bill of the draft Ukrainian Law on the All-Ukrainian Referendum. [[Registration number 6278-P]] Here comes the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[19:13:54]] For-16 Dear colleagues, in negative 16. The decision is not taken. The voice of Yuri Anatoliovich is counted. Yeah, in negative 17.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-11-20-m1.u208	The factions, please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 14, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 0, National Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 1. Dear colleagues, to complete, yes, the purity of our work here is another appeal from the Committee on Construction, Urban Building, Housing and Regional Policy. We have discussed with you the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on urban regulation. All the amendments were considered, but there was no effective vote. The committee made a request to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and was motivated by the fact that they had worked on this document for a very long time, they agreed on all the proposals to try to return to the decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, for the sake of clarity of the experiment, please! Well, just to make sure there's no commitment. [[B in m in s a l in]] I put to the vote a proposal and a request by the Committee for a return to the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Regulation of Urban Activities. [[Registration number 11252]] Please vote. [[19:15:36]] For 235 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal of the adoption committee in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the regulation of urban activities. [[Registration number 11252]] Please vote. [[19:16:08]] For 238. The law is passed. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary session on December 4, if there are no other circumstances. So thanks for the job. From tomorrow, work on committees and factions, directly.
