ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u1	People's deputies, please prepare for registration. And I invite my colleague to take a seat in the Presidium. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[16:00:05]] 382 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, processed the material submitted by representatives of political parties and national deputies regarding the formation of parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine for their conformity and the Rules and provided the Supreme Council with information on the registration of parliamentary factions and groups. The relevant information material is given to you. As required by the article. I'm asking the secretariat to do what I've been told. Please distribute the materials. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, allow me to inform you about the registration of the parliamentary factions and groups in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh call. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 57, 58, 59, 60 of the Supreme Council Regulations, I hereby declare the formation and registration in the Supreme Raj of Ukraine of the seventh vocation of the following parliamentary factions: Deputies of the Party of the Regions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the seventh vocation. The short name is the faction of the Party of the Regions. The number of factions is 210 national deputies in Ukraine. The leader of the faction was Efremov Alexander Sergiyyovich, the first deputy of the head was Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich, who was elected as deputy of the head: Bandurov Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich, Voropeyeva Yuri Mikolaiovich, Kluva Sergija Petrovich, Kunchenko Alexija Petrovich, Mironka Mikhail Ivanovich, Samylenko Jurija Pavlovich, Tihypek Sergija Leonidovich. The deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland. The short title is the deputy faction of the Fatherland. The faction’s size is 99 national deputies. The leader of the faction was Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich, who was elected as deputy to the faction’s head: Sobolva Sergija Vladislavovich, Schlemka Dmitr Vasilovich, Kirilenko Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, Tarasyuk Boris Ivanovich, Sasa Sergija Volodymyrovich, Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovic, Pasinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Vitaly Klicka, Political Party MP. [[Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms]] The short title is the MP's "Political Party" Vitalia Klitschka. The number of factions is 42 national deputies in Ukraine. The leader of the faction was the Call of Vitaly Volodymyrovich. Kovalczuk Vitali Anatoliyovich, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich, was elected deputy leader of the faction. The faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. The abbreviated name is Faction W.O. "Freedom. The number of factions is 37 national deputies in Ukraine. Tajnibok Oleg Jaroslavovich was elected head of the faction. The deputy heads of the faction were chosen: Mohnik Andrija Volodymyrovich, Kosulinski Ruslan Volodymyrovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Short name. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! I'm used to working under the law. For us and for you all, the law in the Council is the Law on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll let you know that, according to article 58 of the Second Rules, this law gives the political party that has overcome the 5% barrier to form its faction in the Supreme Council. I ask everyone to familiarize themselves with this paragraph of the law. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The short name is the faction of the Company of Ukraine. The number of factions is 32 national deputies in Ukraine. Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich was elected head of the faction. Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich was elected the first deputy leader of the faction, and Matvijev Valentin Grigorovovich was elected the deputy head of the faction. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a refinement, the quantity of the composition is 32, 33. Marmazov hasn't filed yet because he's in the hospital. He's not a deputy yet, he hasn't taken an oath, he's in the hospital. Please, after one minute of procedure, each faction. Who wants to step out of the procedure? Please, from the "Freedom" faction, Oleg Knaczykki.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u2	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I reiterate that this is a violation of the law. Because I can quote clearly in article 58 of the Law on the Rules, which says that MP factions are formed from the number of national MPs elected by election lists of political parties and national MPs who have been nominated by the political party in one-mandom districts. So the law speaks of two absolute grounds for the formation of factions in the Supreme Council. And we cannot today begin the work of the newly elected parliament with gross violations of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u3	Thank you. Translating laws is an appropriate activity of the Constitutional Court. Please, from Karpuntz's "Smack."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u4	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, colleagues! I want to point out that we fully share the position of all our colleagues in opposition. Article 57 speaks plainly. Alexander Sergiyovich, I ask you not to commit a crime, because the blacks in white are written how the faction is formed. The question of whether a group can form a faction of Communists, not just by faction. You are deliberately violating the law. And you do it yourself. You are a reasonable man, you are an enlightened man, yet I would urge you, after a procedural discussion, to speak out of this matter and not accept it, not to consecrate it as an act of lawlessness in the Supreme Council. Because no Constitutional Court is here right now. It's a crime. And the faction of Communists has no right to have a party of Communists not have the right to a faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u5	Guys, I'm so sorry. All I have to do is let you know what formed factions are. I don't have any other authority. Thank you. Please, from Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u6	Members of Parliament, I have a question for the chairman. 58. The article foresees that a faction of communists can be formed in the event that there is a candidate majorist who is promoted by a faction of Communists and won the district. What's the name of such a major candidate? There's no such thing. That's why there are no Communists as factions. God will give, and there will be no such party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u7	Colleagues, I don't want to discuss this. Please, I thought you were done. Give me 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u8	And the second. Mr. Chairman, in opposition to the question. Who has just called to the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine special militia units: "Berkut", OMON, who, contrary to the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine, began to beat the national deputies of Ukraine and prevent them from carrying out their direct constitutional duty? This is the admission of the people of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Who is responsible?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u9	Dear colleague, we can invite those who have dealt with this issue to give us a proper statement. But neither you nor I, nor colleagues in the Presidium, have dealt with this issue. You know that. So I apologize, let me carry out the responsibilities that I have been given, and then we will discuss all the questions. From the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u10	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich, distinguished colleagues, I call upon everyone to calm down. Today's first meeting, I understand, everybody's got a lot of emotions. And the TV's working, everyone wants to be in a TV camera, something to say, something to shout, something to break. Well, let's get to constructive work. Never been in the hall, you know, we had Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, there were leaders of the orange revolution, Julia Timoshenko, they treated differently, there was the Law and the Constitution all over the world, the whole world laughed. And they had two different positions, although one people chose them. And there are, in Parliament, different dictates, treated by MPs. Well, if there is any doubt, Alexander Sergeyevich has sounded what he has, and if there is doubt, please, the signatures to the Constitutional Court and he treats clearly. There is no other solution. I suggest that everyone calm down and start working constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u11	Would you please get the Company faction to perform? Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u12	Honorable Temporary Presidency, distinguished colleagues, especially "disgusting" experts! From what you'll be yelling "Damn!" The process won't move, you've disgraced everything you can for 21 years, and the car is there now. As far as the reader is concerned, I regret that the lawyers seem to be commenting on what they are doing. Read correctly. There's a word there that says, "and it must be from the majors." There's no such word. So read it this way. How to read, if you know all the letters. The other one. I would like one of the national deputies who is here asking the Lord God and hoping that the Communists will cease to exist, and I would like him to contact his father, who grew up as a professor in the history of the CPD. Does he feel the same way about his injection?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u13	The word is given to Kozemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u14	Dear colleagues, I would like to address all of you here and remind you that, in fact, in the working group, opposition parties have repeatedly reminded us that there is an article 58 of the Rules Act. Unfortunately, most of us did not listen or discuss the matter. The other one. Today you have seen that two national deputies who were not present in the hall, a violation of article 79 of the Constitution, did not accept it or have the right to be national deputies today. So I propose to the Bureau and to all present to settle this issue to take a break in order to agree. In any case, to sanctify this issue here in the Presidium I personally and my colleagues do not meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u15	Dear colleagues, I do not have the authority to call a recess on this matter. We haven't formed any organs with you yet. [[B in m in s a l in]] The next question is the report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous call for a state of legislative work in Parliament. A written report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation is given to you. In accordance with the Rules, the decision is not taken, but the report is made known. Let's thank Vladimir Mikhailovich for the work he did, and let's say.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u16	Colleagues! I'm not the Speaker of Parliament and not the Head, I have functions that are designed to sound them, I'm just like you. And once you and I have chosen the governing bodies of Parliament, then we will dictate to them the requirements that are in the Rules. I don't know what to dictate. I'm just like you. Thank you. In order to provide organizational questions related to the vote, we need to select a Counting Commission. For the proposal of the Preparatory Group, Ruslan Volodymirovich Kosulinski, a national deputy of Ukraine, is given the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u17	Colleagues, I don't have the authority to call a recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u18	Colleagues, we agreed, I gave Kosulinsky the floor to announce the Counting Commission. If we consider the issue of when we began to consider the matter, the break is not announced. This is no longer the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u19	Colleagues, this is not my right. Please let your colleague take and announce a break here, I'm not going to call it a break. This is not the norm of the Rules. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, you have members of the Bureau, let your Bureau members announce a recess if they want to. I'm not going to call it a night. We made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u20	Respectable Society! At the request of two factions, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union and the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, a 30-minute break is announced. [[Applause]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u21	Dear colleagues, I propose that, in order to get out of this situation, one minute from each faction. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, are there any factions? Please register with the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u22	Well, it's your right, Arsenius Petrovich, it's not my duty. It's totally not my responsibility. [[B in m in s a l in]] Are there any names for the factions? Please take me to the board. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, I invite the factions to sign up for a minute. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] I don't have that kind of authority, colleagues! No, no, no, no! Well, no. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u23	Please give Oleg a word to the Deleter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u24	Please pass the word to the German. I'm asking you to pass the word to the Schneitzer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u25	Oleg Knaczykki, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. According to law, members of the Temporary Presidium have the same right. If one member of the Presidium announced a recess, another member of the Presidium could not change anything. The more you said yourself, let one of the members of the Presidium announce a recess. Do not treat the Rules as you would like.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u26	Thank you. Who's next? I'm asking you to get out of the "Race" system. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u27	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich, distinguished colleagues! I'm addressing all the people's deputies again. The people have chosen us to work constructively on legislation in order for us to begin our primary responsibility of drafting laws, we must quickly address organizational procedural issues. [[B in m in s a l in]] At this moment, there are no prerequisites for taking breaks in order to delay the work of the Supreme Council and for us to arrive at a constructive conclusion of organizational matters. I invite everyone to calm down, allow Alexander Sergeevich to hold a meeting of the Supreme Council, choose the leadership of Parliament and engage in specific legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u28	How long do you think it's gonna take? Break for how long?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u29	Dear colleagues, if we can't work, I'll call it a day. But I'm calling it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] But I have no right to do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, that game you started, it's famous. The break takes place after the break with the other, further so as not to elect a Speaker of Parliament, and so on. We will exercise our right, and we will also take breaks. Well, it's unconstructive work, it's unconstructive work in Parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, it's time for the Turk's speech. Let him do it. Give the word to the Turk from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u30	Dear colleagues, I am addressing all those elected by the people's deputies, not those who have stolen their mandates. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure Act, neither the Head nor the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, and the chairman of the session announces a recess at the request of two factions. Is Mr. Ephraim now temporarily serving as chairman, and he is obliged? is bound to announce a recess. He did not manage to understand the Rules, even though he was the chairman of the Regulatory Committee. And his colleague at the presidency, the representative of the Freedom Party, who has the same rights, has fulfilled his duty? I called it a break. I ask that the Supreme Council, from its first working hours, do not violate the law, do not violate the Rules, but work exclusively for the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u31	Before that, I announced that we were considering the matter of the Counting Commission. In violation of all the Rules, you have blocked the work of Parliament and paid no attention to it. Now you're saying, my dear colleague, that our colleague at the Bureau has declared a recess. Take a break, go, I don't mind. If you consider this to be the right thing to do, take a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] That is correct, but if the chairman of the meeting announces the matter, you interrupt its consideration in the middle of the consideration and say that we will do so, then you are not acting in accordance with the Rules, you are guided by completely different things, and the law is not here at all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Who will hold the meetings, who? Nobody. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, you're saying someone's calling, I just picked up the phone, thought maybe the receiver was calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u32	Arsenius Petrovich. Dear colleagues! Given what the Secretariat has made known to me: it takes time to reshape the Council system, and we are still unable to make any decision, there is a technical suspension.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u33	Dear colleagues, I am asking members of the Bureau to take their seats in the Bureau. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please calm down. I'm asking the secretariat to check the "Council" system. [[B in m in s a l in]] We had a break. Is there anyone who wants to take a break from the rostrum? Are they desirable or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u34	Dear friends! I just want to remind you that the break was declared not on the demand of two factions, but on a technical break, so according to the Rules, we still have the right to a recess, and we will certainly take advantage of it. That's the first one. [[Applause]] The other one. We believe that according to the Rules of Procedure Act a procedure should be followed for the appointment of members of the Counting Commission. A reckoning commission should be selected. In accordance with article 17, part 3, of the Rules, the Counting Commission should hold its meetings, elect a head, substitutes, and members of the Counting Commission. And most important. The Counting Commission should report to us on the status of the "Council" system. Whether it is possible to vote by electronic system or not, the electronic system does not meet the requirements of the law. This means that after the election of the Counting Commission, she should conduct a procedure for the technical inspection of the "Council" system. And then report to Parliament. Clearly, it will take a long time to do so, and it is clear that we will not be able to obtain a report from the Counting Commission during today. I would like to remind you that in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the meeting should be closed today at 6 p.m., because Parliament did not vote in favour of the continuation of the session in the first part. The chairman of the meeting, Mr. Ephraim, has the opportunity to continue such a meeting for no more than 15 minutes. And the last. Voting for the Prime Minister of Ukraine is possible only if the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Law on the Rules are implemented, namely: after the formation of committees and the appointment of the Prime Minister through all committees and appropriate submissions, Parliament has the right to deal with the matter. There will be no unconstitutional vote for the prime minister. We form committees, we enforce the law. And after that, we'll be looking at the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u35	Dear colleagues, I do not wish to enter into a discussion, but that is not the case. According to article 205 of the Supreme Council Rules, paragraph 8 reads: "in the discussion of the candidates for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, representatives of the MP factions, the MPs, representatives of the committees, in the event of their creation, I emphasize, and the national MPs." Hence, there is no need to mislead people about what is not in the Rules. Dear colleagues, to provide, a word for suggestions from the Preparatory MP was given to the national deputy, Ruslan Volodymirovich Kosulinski. Are you ready to report to the Counting Commission? We'll finish the question, then we'll be out of procedure. Please, Kosulinski, are you ready to report? Please, from the procedure, who? Pull up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u36	Thank you. Oleg Tuggnibok, faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! We just want one thing to be clear about Ukrainian legislation. In order to begin the work of the new convening of the Ukrainian Parliament, we were 100% confident that we adhered to all the norms of the peoples of the country, and we adhere accordingly to all the postulates set out in the Rules. A faction of Communists here raises the cry that they might claim to be a faction. But they voted, by the way, for Adam Martinyuk, no longer than 6 November of this year, for changes to the Rules that are now clearly fixed, and in which you, the distinguished representatives of the Communists, are not respected, fall into a trap. This is the first one. The other one. Article 16 of our Rules clearly states the list of questions. Why was there no account of the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania? Why just us?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u37	Ten seconds, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u38	Thank you. So in order to make clear the implementation of the rules of the Constitution, we would now have to go back to the third question that stands before the election of the Counting Commission, and Mr. Litwin would have to bring us up to speed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, you and I agreed on this issue at the Preparatory Group, and you should have heard it. Allow me to continue my duties, please. Carpunz, for the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u40	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich, dear colleagues! The Strike Party faction emphasizes that our work as a parliament, as a higher legislative body, should lie within and act in a manner. Constitutions and laws of Ukraine. If the Rules of Procedure Act of article 16 establishes a clear sequence of our actions, we must follow Article 16. I'll remind you that it caused a stir in Parliament. The storm caused you to announce the factions. Honourable Alexander Sergiyyovich, Parliament, largely wants to know on what basis a faction of the Communist Party, who entered and who committed the crime, was registered. Alexander Sergiyovich, the minimum fraction if they want a group of 37, if the faction, show it. All society knows that there cannot be a faction of the Communist Party under the Rules. And there can't be any representatives of the Counting Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u41	Please, Sas, procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u42	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, I demand that you ensure the implementation of Article 18 of the Rules, where the Chairman of the Preparatory Group should sit in the Presidency. Where he disappeared, we don't know. That's the first one. The Bureau needs Litwin. Put him in position. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u44	Let me finish. With regard to the appointment procedure for the appointment of Prime Minister Alexander Sergiyovich, you read in the 205th another third. That's the first one. And secondly, the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the Supreme Council Rules have the right of factions to meet with a candidate for prime minister. And that's a right, and you can't take that right away. With regard to article 16, the list of issues to be considered is particularly clear. And we don't need to refer to any of the Preparatory Group. A preparatory group can recommend rather than make decisions. All decisions should be taken by the Supreme Council if there are any changes to that list of issues that are being considered in accordance with Article 16. Please do not start the work of the Supreme Council for violation of the Constitution and the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u45	Please, Party of Regions, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u46	Dear Alexander Sergeyevich! Dear colleagues! For. Of course you can do anything. I think there's been a discussion. I request that Alexander Sergeyevich be put to the vote for approval of the composition of the Commission of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u47	Who's gonna be the Communist faction? By procedure? Nope. Thank you. Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u48	Dear Temporary Predestination! Dear colleagues! I refer particularly to my predecessors, who have consistently stressed the need to comply with the Constitution, the laws and, above all, the Rules. So here's my emphasis on the Rules. First. Those who now speak and ask for a word from the procedure are in violation of the Rules because there is no rule in the Rules to give a word out of the procedure. That is why I would ask the presiding officer to abide by the Rules, and at any point in my desire to give such a word out of the procedure, because the Rules of this right to the presiding officer and, accordingly, to the people's deputies do not give it. The other one. If we have already announced the question of the establishment of the Counting Commission, we need to consider the creation of the Counting Commission, not the creation of Rome, the Crimea and the copper pipes, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Prime Minister, what will happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u49	Thank you. Colleagues, I will carry out my duties. The word is given to Ruslan Volodymyrovich Koshulinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u50	Ruslan Kosulinsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In accordance with article 17 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to elect the Supreme Council of Ukraine as part of the Military Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene the seventh such national deputies of Ukraine: From the Party of Regions – Demidka Volodymira Mikolaiovich, Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrović, Kaluzhy Vitali Anatoliyovich, Final Vladimir Leontijovich, Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Pinchuk Andrija Pavlovich, Skubaszewski Stanislav Valeryanovich, Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich, Dry Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Chechtev Mikhailovich; from the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian union "The Fatherland" – Zubko Hennady Grigorovich, Kanovce Oleg Leonidovich, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna, Kuprejčik Irina Valeriyivna, Pavlovski Andrija Mihajlovich; From the deputy faction of the political party "UDA" Vitalia Klicka – Hinku Jaroslav Jaroslavovich, Chugunikova Vitalija Semenović; [[Ukrainian Democratic Alliance for Reforms]] From the deputy faction of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Association – Heleway Oleg Ivanovich, Switzerland Igor Alexandrovich; From the Communist Party of Ukraine, Gordijenka Sergija Volodymyrovich, Zubcevsky Alejandro Petrovich. In accordance with article 17, the Counting Commission selects a head, a substitute, and a secretary from its composition. The meetings of the Committee shall be held in a public and public manner. I would like to point out that the work of the Counting Commission cannot be shared by national deputies who are not included in this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u51	Any questions to the reporter? Please sign up from factions, from self-inflicted people. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear members of the provisional presidency of our Supreme Council, we understand that you all represent certain parties that some people voted for. But I would like to point out that there are more than 50 people in the Ukrainian Parliament of the Seventh Call, as they have passed, or self-regulatory, or from the party as radical, from other parties, and you have no right to restrict the rights of the people's deputies of those who are not members of your factions. After all, according to the Constitution, all national deputies have equal rights and responsibilities. So I insist, and I hope that all the people, colleagues who don't join the factions, will support, first of all, that members of the counting committee will be included in the non-fractional MPs. Secondly, we insist on amending the Rules of the Supreme Council so that members of the factions who are not members of the factions may be granted all the same rights as members of the factions. You have no right to restrict the powers of the national deputies for whom you have voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u53	Thank you. The word is given to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u54	Please pass the word to your colleague Sobolje Sergio.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u55	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I have a question to ask who was the reporter on this issue. I'd like him to listen to the question. Attention! Please tell me on the basis of what does this Supreme Council decision project have as a "communist faction"? Read the Rules. According to the Rules, they are entitled to a parliamentary group that has the smallest number of factions, or 37. Please tell me on what basis did you make this proposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u56	Please. We don't have an evening of questions and answers. The next one is Catherinechuk. Please, Catherinechuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u57	Mikola Catherinechuk, Fatherland faction, European Party of Ukraine. I would like to request that my statement be considered a request to the Attorney General of Ukraine for having committed a crime and forging documents related to the registration of the Communist faction. There is no legal basis for the formation and acceptance of this faction in the faction status of the plenary session of the first day of the session. The other one. I have a question for representatives in the provisional Presidium of Freedom. On what basis were members of the Communist Party declared to be factions in the Counting Commission? Thank you for your answer. Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u58	Please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u59	Vladimir Bondarenko, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, who today represent a temporary presidency! I'd like you two to figure out how to proceed so that we don't turn our meetings into this fight and this fight. There are no more people here who have broken up the deputies and the ribs and hands with chairs before, but there are a lot of new people here today, so we would like you to be guided by the Rules, the laws of Ukraine. And there can't be Communists there, that's understandable. Peter Mikolaiovich cannot hold a meeting, it is also clear. And you stick to that, and we'll be fine, we'll discuss the issue. You have the right to vote. You may have a majority or not, but you won't be able to give us this time. You see, the schedule is a little bit different in the room, so don't put any pressure on anyone here physically, it's not going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u60	Thank you. The word is given to Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u61	Andrey Pavlovsky, "Fatherland" faction of the political-incarcerated Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to point out that once, according to the Law on Rules, Communists have no right to form a faction, then the question of Peter Simonek. Why don't you give him a temporary break? [[Applause]] Have Mr. Litwin sit there so badly needed. Moreover, Litwin did not report the previous work of the Supreme Council. We urge him to do so according to the Rules. And I ask you to answer the head of the Counting Commission to the questions of the people's deputies, because the Supreme Council is a place for discussion and answers to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u62	Tshulinski will answer. And that's where we end up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u63	Ruslan Kosulinsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Thank you so much for asking. Here's to the transcript. I want to point out that it wasn't the Communist Party faction that was read, but it was read, "From the Communist Party." Taking into account what we discussed in the Preparatory Group: one representative of 20 deputies -- that's what we meant. Thank you. I'm asking, society, given that I still have the opportunity to speak from this microphone today, in fact, we agreed on a preparatory group that would report to the head of the preparatory group for that job. Unfortunately, we don't see it again. It was taken off the agenda, but it was a question. I'm not confused, I guess. Volodymyr Mikhailovich? Check the Council system of the Counting Commission. We would like to now allow the representatives of the Counting Commission to gather and verify the work of the Council system and on that subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u64	Thank you. I'm betting on the vote on the bill of election of the Counting Commission. [[17:32:26]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have one question, we have non-fractional deputies, but we don't know how many of them will be final. That is why we can agree today that a national deputy from self - exaltation should be elected to the Counting Commission today. Please make an offer, and the Secretariat please show by factions. My colleagues here tell me that self-regulatory people don't have only MP groups or factions. So the decision is made. Let us turn to the question of the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Colleagues, I can announce a recess on one condition. I'm betting on the vote, who's in charge of working on the issues. Please vote. Today. Please turn the system on. [[17:33:52]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. I'll call it a 30-minute break. We'll be working on it in 30 minutes. Let's see the factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like you to meet me on the third floor and get started, work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-12-12-m2.u65	Good evening, dear fellows! We have finished the work of the Conciliation Board in a new format. The negotiations went well. We agreed that we would continue to make arrangements. That's why we're not finishing our session today. We're moving it tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Happy birthday to you. Good-bye.
