ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:55]] The 420 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Honorable National MPs, on April 7, 2012 for 52 years, suddenly departed from us our colleague of the People's Deputies of Ukraine on the Sixth Call, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, a member of the National Party faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Igor Borisovich Golovchenko. Please honor our colleague’s memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 20 to 23 March 2012. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 102 questions of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration: 9 laws and 54 decrees were passed, 14 bills and one draft decree were adopted on the basis of one bill, one was converted to the drafting of the subject of the legislative initiative, four bills were converted to the committee for further elaboration, 23 bills and 9 draft decrees were rejected; 5 laws were adopted in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, one law was intended to be drafted to the committee, one law was rejected; 169 parliamentary requests were declared. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues of Kulchinski Mikli Georgievovich and Pachesuk Sergio Nikonović. Please welcome our colleagues, especially the Jubilee of Mikola and their wishes for success and health. [[Applause]] Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. The factions and groups would like to sign up for the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Valerius Kamchatny, group of Reforms for the Future. Please, your performance. Next is Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The MP's Reform for the Future has repeatedly stated that supporting socio-economic transformations is a priority of its activities. In our view, reforms should be full - scale and consistent. The absolute strategic goal to which they should be directed is to actually raise the standard of living of people, to restore the balance of justice in society. Today’s challenges call for us to make many decisions quickly. In early March, a new order of social policy was announced at the Cabinet of Ministers. The main social initiatives are to strengthen the protection of our citizens, first of all, the most vulnerable groups should be implemented in the near future. We have a complex legislative work to do, including changes to the 2012 State Budget and tax legislation. In order for social obligations not to be mere words, but to be fully implemented, resources are needed. They can only be given by a working modern economy. Reforms are needed in specific areas, especially in the tax system, the government. In 2010, these reforms got a good pace, but now these efforts, let's say, are virtually undetectable. We're seeing some colleagues on the Supreme Council, some factions consider it a risk to talk about the reforms before the elections. Isn't that why we're witnessing other populist ideas from opposition that promise unenforced by real financing of higher wages and pensions? Dear colleagues, we must be aware of the responsibility: without effective and informed decisions, without genuine reforms, it is impossible to achieve social standards. Therefore, our faction urges us to stop the early election quarrel and consider the serious cost of refusing effective change. And the signals that the reform course has, unfortunately, gone into stagnation are coming from our strategic partners, particularly the European Union. The agreement on association and the creation of a free trade zone is finally initialled. We certainly welcome this fact, but the political will of the EU countries to ratify this document has not yet been declared. Instead of clearly seeking to speed up ratification in the national parliaments of the EU countries, we unfortunately hear from Euro-factors some skeptical assessments of Ukraine's ability to move forward, including in adapting to European standards. In particular, the reform of the public service, the modernization of government finance management, transparency in public procurement, the reform of documents that testifies to the individual, it has been postponed because of the lack of consensus in our hall. The reform of the energy sector, unfortunately, today depends on an adequate price for gas, which depends on the whole Ukrainian economy, every Ukrainian citizen. Our "Reform for the Future" faction requires the Supreme Council of Political Will and Political Courage to put reform plans into real life. Social problems should not be a tool for manipulating people’s affections. The lessons of European countries that are on the verge of default testify to the fact that social expectations are being deceived by the storms of street protests. You can't simulate concern for people in high macroeconomic risks. So we call for a firm stand and make every effort to make the necessary economic and social changes. There was not much time left until the end of the Supreme Council’s office. Let's think about it with you, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u3	Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next up will be Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u4	Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Every day brings new and new trials to Ukraine. The President and the Party of the Regions are consistently implementing their motto of making your life worse today. The regime demonstrates the wonders of incompetence and irresponsibility multiplied by vast corruption in the country. The government holds the whole country as fools when failures try to make their success. Yes, the European Union has initialled as many as one tenth of the text of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, 170 pages out of 1,700 pages. This is a slap to the Ukrainian authorities and a recognition of their complete failure in European integration, because it's just a technical procedure. What to say about signing and ratifying! So-called social initiatives are propaganda. The authorities do not even want to pay the pitiful taxes they promised before the elections. Tihypko took away 100-200 bracelets from the pensioners in his pseudo-reform, and now the authorities have miserably arranged the "session of unprecedented generosity" for the pensioners of the Great Homeland War: yes, from April 1st, the "children of war" pension increased by as much as 12 copies per year, the disabled of war, the former juvenile prisoners of concentration camps - between 4.80 and 8 bracelets, and the participants of fighting action - by 27 bracelets. Therefore, a tax on wealth is imposed so - called. This is so, for example, when the owner of a cow in a village under Konotop suddenly becomes an oligarch and a luxury tax payer. At the same time, the authorities are demonstrating incompetence and the unwillingness of any kind of money to save, on the other hand, in their pockets. He picks up gas crises, prices go up every day. Gas will soon be taxed on wealth as a luxury. The Presidential Administration also stated that an increase in the price of gas for the population is inevitable. Budget holes are closed at the expense of ordinary citizens. Instead, the opposition has long passed a bill on the real rise in social standards. I urge the majority to adopt the Arsenius Yatsenuk bill without delay, which will allow the minimum pensions to be increased by 265 and the minimum wage by 340 by the end of the year. There is no need to increase tax pressure, no. Print money. The government understands that it has failed the economy and the social sphere, and in the parliamentary elections it loses. Thus, the President and the Party of the Regions open a forgery gateway with the hands of the Constitutional Court. Thus, yesterday’s decision by the Constitutional Court, which deprives half a million Ukrainians of constitutional right to vote. Now the authorities want to change the Electoral Law without changing it. What is it, I'll explain it to you. Today we have a bill for the inclusion in the agenda of the 10030, which is proposed, inter alia, to severely limit the possibility of accusing decisions of the functioning of the electoral commission. In fact, the only way to appeal is to count the votes. This is a direct violation of articles 55 and 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine that everyone is guaranteed the right to be accused of the decisions of the active inactivity of the authorities of the State and beyond. We're definitely against change of election rules because it's only done for counterfeiting. The government itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u5	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u6	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u7	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! The events of the last days show that not only did the authorities declare but they also wage a systematic war against their own people. The war against present and future pensioners is due to the so - called pension reform, the war against businessmen, the so - called tax reform, and the daily total pressure on entrepreneurs. The war against teachers and physicians, when optimisation is used not only to reduce health - care facilities but also to relieve workers of the area, has resulted in an informal reduction in wages as a result of the requirement to send teachers away on unpaid vacations. Today, war has also begun against government officials who, under the current budget of the local government system at the local level, have begun to receive wages close to the minimum -- and are thinking about how to live this not a simple year. The result of the two-year war of power against the people, according to UN experts, is that more than 80 percent of Ukrainian citizens are poor. The vast majority believe that in two years of the presidency of Viktor Yanukovitch their lives have deteriorated, and it is estimated that between one and a half percent of the citizens believe that their lives have improved. As national wisdom says, we know these people by name. At the same time, the authorities have declared war against their opponents, war against opposition, and in the last days this war is not propaganda, it is not political -- it is a war for destruction. If, before, the main slogan for power was: "Good opposition is an arrested opposition," then after the latest unprecedented and immoral statements made by the Attorney General's Office's leadership, it seems that the new slogan of power is "Good opposition is an eternally imprisoned opposition." And for the radicals of power, "Good opposition is a dead opposition." We claim that the absurd and inadequate actions of the Attorney General's Office, which from the television screens without any evidence, have accused Julia Timoshenko of being involved in a series of murders in the 1990s, are from a series of current authorities of government who are becoming the ideologies of today's government. It seems that the zealous advocates of Christianity, as the team of Viktor Yanukovitch has stood on their flag of faith instead of Jesus Christ, have placed the name Hama. And this ideology, Hama, is a worldwide threat to Ukraine, a worldwide threat to Ukrainian society. If the current power that began its career in the 1990s in the Donetsk region wants the whole country and the world to hear the truth, we support it. We're demanding the establishment of a commission of inquiry into the mass killings of businessmen in the 1990s of the Donetsk region and the killings of the national deputies of Eugene Scherban, Eugene Kushnarov. We want to hear the truth about who today owns the property and property of those who died in the so - called years of the original capital accumulation of Donetskina. We have started a collection of signatures for the resignation of the Attorney General's Office, which has finally disgraced the words "prosecutors" and "right-of-law authorities" with the latest statements by the media about Julia Timoshenko. We insist on the approval of the Supreme Council's decree to comply with the parliamentary requirements of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We believe that the history of war has the same conclusion: the policy of occupation in relation to its own people, whoever it comes from, will always end in vain for the initiators of such a war. And I would like to give a special advice to Victor Janukovich: on a leisurely basis, the Nobel laureate Gabriel García Marquez of the Autumn of the Patriarch, who teaches that any ruler, especially the one from whom they try to make a dictator, must remember that the endless time of eternal and sweet life in power has a fatal capacity to end, and sometimes it is tragic enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u9	Eugene Marmazov, a Communist faction, has the right to speak. The next one will be from the Party of the Regions, Kaletnik Grigory. Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u10	Dear people's deputies, I have to speak again about the flagrant violations of privatization. This time on the fate of the Odessa Production Association Orion, 50 per cent plus one share of which is owned by the State. The Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatization addressed this issue three times in its meetings, including recently directly at the firm. Orion is on the list of strategic enterprises. It produced compressors, air conditioning systems, including tanks. Today, the plant is a complete ruin, torn out, all equipment removed, all communications looted, containing at least a fraction of the metal that the State has suffered enormous damage. The raid of the enterprise has been ongoing since 2004. This uses almost the entire range of illegal methods: falsification of the stock register, force grabbing of the business, fictitious bankruptcy, destruction of financial records, arrest of the property of the company's accounts, penalties, threats and direct attempted murder of the Kuszczak Prime Minister, to whom the head has been broken, but no one has been brought to justice. What is happening at the plant is at least evidenced by the fact that the tax inspection for a questionable debt of 6,000 grevens sells a 16-story treatment and health complex of the plant 8.5 times its estimated value. But even this money has not been paid to the enterprise. Following the intervention of our commission, the current leadership of the Holding Foundation has been obliged by the highest judicial authorities to return the building to Orion. The skeleton of the building is returned, but no one was held responsible for the robbery. A 3,000 - square - foot - long hotel was not returned to the company, which was sold to the raiders at the cost of building debris. This is also the picture of Odessa enterprises, such as the Crayan Association of Centrolite Plants, Sales, Jutovo Factory, Borders, Black Sea Shipping. Just one example. The Krayan factory corps was sold to raiders for 2 million grevens, and they immediately reselled it for 70 million. [[40,000 square metres]] Unpunished attacks on public interests have become possible, including as a result of the profound decomposition of the judiciary and paralysis of the State executive service. The regional administration of the State Commission for Securities and Stock Markets is on the side of the raiders. At various times, tax inspectors, executive services, the Housing Fund, the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the police in the area helped to destroy businesses. In Odessa, the chief perpetrators of the crime are publicly referred to as the People's Deputy of Ukraine Dubova, the former President of the District Economic Court, the judge of the district and the Court of Appeal. By the way, seven judges designated by the court were represented by the Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Justice for their release from office, but none of them, except one, had been released but had not been punished. I have to say it's not just Odessa. I have had to talk to you more than once about the situation in Alexandria at the destroyed boulevard complex, the Nicolan Pipe Plant and other enterprises. No action shall be taken. The Communist faction has instructed me to report to the Supreme Council on the situation and to address President Viktor Yanukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u12	President Janukovic proposed to establish a commission headed by the Attorney-General with the necessary authority to conduct a thorough, comprehensive investigation into Odessa and to bring the perpetrators to justice. At least in the example of Odessa, it should be demonstrated that the Ukrainian authorities have political will and are able to bring about order. Please consider my statement as a parliamentary request to the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u13	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next is Michael Schershung.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u14	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV listeners! I would like to focus all of us today on a rather serious and challenging problem, as well as the attention of the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food and the Cabinet of Ministers on the price of milk. Whoever came from us in the villages of any area knows how acute this question is today, especially the milk produced in the households of the population. Milky farming is traditionally an important, indispensable agricultural sector, one of the signs of progress in agriculture as a whole. However, the situation is not encouraging, frankly. The head of the cattle is reduced to 297 heads. And you can talk about the "red book" for cows soon. Since 1990, cows have been reduced from 25 million heads to 2 million, or 10 times, by 2011. Population farming remains the main milk producer in Ukraine. Yes, in 2011, 8.8 million tons of milk was produced in households of 11 million total in Ukraine, or 80 percent of that production. Thanks to the work of peasants, the need for an internal market in milk and dairy products has been met for at least the last 15 years. The most pressing question for today is price formation. The price of purchasing milk raw materials in agricultural enterprises is on average 3,000 dollars in Ukraine, 2,000 dollars in population households, each litre is valued cheaper. If you count 40 percent of the cost of food, and 1.2 units of milk and a liter of milk cost 2.64 dollars, you only spend more on food than on half a gallon of milk. And in some areas, this cost is 1.80, the purchase price. So today we have a situation in the dairy sector that needs to be addressed urgently. And I'm not suggesting that we spend any extra money on this. The grants were nothing, and they didn't work very well over the years. We have a steady tendency to carve cows from 100 to 120,000 heads a year. I am convinced that the problem can be solved. It's worth putting in a milk production system where the price goes down and the milk is estimated, accepted from the population as counterfeit, not as a variety. And that's where this price goes down. How, then, can you please not change prices in the trading network, in supermarkets, if half of the milk that is sold to the population on the dairy plant is produced from it by absolutely high quality milk products and milk kephires? So clearly it's just a falsified price change, and that's what those who do it are taking advantage of. It is also important to note the increase in imports of milk products into the internal market in Ukraine. I think these are the issues that need to be resolved by us, including the adoption of changes to the State Budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u15	Mikola Schershun, faction of the National Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u16	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The question that I want to focus on today concerns all Ukrainian peasants. This is evidenced by numerous appeals coming to the faction of the People’s Party from all regions. But most of all it affects the interests of veterans, pensioners, disabled people, children of war and other socially vulnerable citizens, for the purpose of improving the lives of whom a number of social initiatives have been announced by the President. And this is about the procedure for land ownership and real estate, primarily built by 1992. People are left alone with a complex bureaucratic system that rules in government institutions. That's why I get a lot of complaints about the election. And in the days that followed, there was this kind of collective appeal from the Council of the Ravenna Regional Veterans Organization. In turn, the Ravenna District Council recently accepted a request to the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council to remedy the situation immediately. And that indicates that the problem has reached the limit of boiling, and here we have no moral right to close our eyes on it, because we're going to cause social tension among the citizens. People are complaining of complex procedures and terrible conditions for documenting in BTI, State Building, Architecture, Fire and Sanitation, and Earthly Organizations. There are huge queues and people everywhere, and people demand so many documents and help that they simply can't get. It comes to absurdity, forcing old landholds or equipment to be restored to the building with payment for making new ones. If you remember, by 1992, there had been no equipment and acts for the operation of buildings, and villages were being built according to the master plan of the building. Now people are being fined for lack of passports, which, once again, were not needed at the time of construction, and the population sees it as a struggle because they were acting by law at the time. Since the new year, the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Strengthening Responsibility and Improving Public Regulation in Urban Activities has entered into force. Then the fines for lack of equipment for the building will increase to 150 untaxed minimums. And this document will require whether or not the owner changes. And you have to be honest with me that people in the village just don't have the money to form the necessary documents. And from the following year, we can also place a fine on them. And so today I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers, personally to the head of the government of Mikola Janović Azarov, asking to propose a mechanism for simplifying the system of obtaining technical passports for buildings that are not built until 1992 but also before the government's decision on the issue of acceptance into service of completed buildings, which the law now defines as self-inflicted, and the immediate abolition of fines for the absence of documents for such real estate. It's a shame to admit it, but in our agrarian country today, it's the peasants who are the most poor, because their meager incomes are barely enough to survive at all. And you don't need these people, in most already retired people, to get red tape and fines. We're also talking about administrative reform, and about simplifying the permit system, and we're actually talking about things the other way around. Once again, I ask the Kabin to look carefully at the problem, to find an effective mechanism and solution, and, God forbid, not to send a letter of return to the National MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the factions are over. I ask the Secretariat to examine carefully the suggestions and requirements of the presentations and to prepare appropriate assignments, letters, and petitions. At the same time, my fellow Members, I inform you that today a bill has come from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend the National Budget of Ukraine, which is proposed to add 33 billion and 300 million dollars to the State Budget for Social Expenditure. I would like to ask, as we agreed on the Conciliation Council, a profile committee to review this document expeditiously, analyse it and prepare appropriate proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can consider this draft law together with all the draft laws on this subject that have been tabled by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, and get to a decision that is acceptable, understandable and necessary for people. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to put a daily set of bills into order, and we need to move on to the CPC. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending article 41 of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation. [[on compensation payments]] [[Registration number 10067]] Please vote. [[10:32:04]] For-300 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine. [[Registration number10121]] Please vote. [[10:32:35]] For 312 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act "On the Collection for Compulsory State Pension Insurance". [[on the payment of the congregation for transport equipment]] [[Registration number 10110]] Please vote. [[10:33:09]] For 261 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending Chapter VIII of the Act on Finality and Transitional Positions of Ukraine "On the collection and payment of the sole contribution to the general public social insurance obligation". [[on the promotion of payment of current payments from the sole contribution of insurance and debt to the Ukrainian Pension Fund]] [[Registration number 10028]] Vote. [[10:33:50]] For 260 A decision has been made. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement is put to the vote. [[on the purchase of natural gas]] [[Registration number 10305]] Please vote. [[10:34:20]] For 209 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Transactions involving the Use of Grants of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10122]] Please vote. [[10:34:56]] For 316 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of animals against cruel behaviour. [[Registration numbers: 10022, 10022-1]] Please vote. Please vote. [[10:35:28]] For 235 Decision taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for public denial or justification for crimes of fascism. [[Registration number 10050]] Please vote. Take it off the vote, please. Please, the author's microphone. Peter Simonk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u18	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the inclusion of this bill for consideration on the agenda. For what reasons? Ukrainian legislation prohibits the propaganda of fascism, but domestic criminal law does not contain specific rules that establish responsibility for such crimes. The General Assembly called on UN member States to take more effective measures to combat these phenomena, extremist movements that pose a real threat to democratic values, in accordance with international law. And we, in the Ukrainian society, are increasingly expressing concern and protest against the numerous facts of public acceptance of Nazism, fascism, attempts to deny or justify the crimes of fascism against humanity committed in the years of the Great Homeland War and World War II, in particular the crimes committed by the Waffen SS and the structured SS division of Galicina and others -- those who fought the Anti-Hitlerian Coalition and cooperated with the fascists and the invaders. That's why the Company faction is urging us today to consider this bill, which gives us the opportunity to impose a more stringent responsibility for such actions -- whether it's a public denial or an excuse for the crimes of fascism against humanity being punished by a fine of 500 to 1,000 untaxed minimum citizens' income, or a restriction of will for up to two years, or a waiver for the same term. The Company's faction asks to support the inclusion in the agenda in order to weigh all the pros and cons arguments during the discussion and make the right decision. I'm sure it's just the day before the Great Victory on May 9th that will answer many of our veterans that similar actions that took place in Lviv last year will never again be repeated in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u19	A motion to include in the agenda a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for public denial or justification for crimes of fascism is put to the vote. [[Registration number 10050]] Please vote. [[10:38:31]] For-58 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: Region Party – 10, "BUT – Fatherland" – 1, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 0, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 1. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Access to Culture and Art and to prevent their commercialization. [[Registration number 10062]] Please withdraw the vote. Author, please, Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. The purpose of the bill is to strengthen the process of non-commercialization of cultural and art acquisitions, as well as to ensure access to cultural heritage and cultural values and cultural goods. The prohibition of estrangement or removal from state or municipal property of cultural objects of considerable cultural value will prevent irreversible crises in cultural activities and contribute to the preservation of Ukrainian society’s cultural acquisitions. The bill, which is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council, just proposes changes aimed at preventing re-profile and alienating cultural objects that constitute a significant cultural value for Ukrainian society. It is proposed to introduce a moratorium on the commercialization of cultural objects, which provides for the prohibition of alienation or removal from state or municipal property of cultural objects, including unfinished construction, their retraining. This bill provides for the creation of a single national register of cultural establishments to systematize the available data on the number of cultural establishments, taking into account the assets that have been or are secured behind them to monitor compliance with cultural commercialization legislation. And once again, my dear colleagues, I would like to point out that cultural institutions today have become completely inaccessible because of the high cost of these cultural activities, the impossibility of children today to have the opportunity to engage in groups of artistic activity and much more. So the faction of the Ukrainian Company is proposing to bring the projects into the agenda and to look at the projects and to protect exactly what we have to hand over to future generations of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u21	Vladimir Yavorowski, chairman of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Despite the fact that the law may have certain elements of declaration, the committee supports it and believes that the bill is particularly relevant today. In connection with what? But in view of the fact that the Ministry of Culture is already walking in the corridors, the idea is to actually commercialize our museums, make them an object of collateral. You can imagine what will happen to our most important values that the Ukrainian people today have. You know, it's clearing the political field today, actually clearing the business field. There is a defenseless culture surrounded by red flags today. We know what's going on: all the progressive museum directors have been released, and other people have been put in place. You know, even in the Cabinet of Ministers, think about one thing, in the Cabinet of Ministers itself, two paintings of Glustnik, a unique Ukrainian artist, have been stolen and replaced. Yes, the originals were stolen, and cheap copies were made. And just because Mr. Melnik, the director of the museum, is an honest and noble man who has declared this, he is released without any explanation from office as director of the National Museum. As a result, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality supports this bill. We are convinced that it is necessary to accept it in two readings, and more specifics can be added to the second reading. But what we need to give to people today who want to completely exterminate actually Ukrainian culture, I think this bill will help a little bit. I am grateful to Peter Simonenko, with all our ideological differences, for this bill. We'll support it, and the Yulia Tymoshenko Block as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, the argument to your knowledge has been proved. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the Act on Access to Culture and Art and to prevent their commercialization. [[Registration number 1062]] Please vote. [[10:43:53]] For 121 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 5, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 62, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 19, Communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 7. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Special Health Care Act. [[Registration number 10155]] Please vote. [[10:44:36]] For 299 Decision taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social protection of individual categories of citizens. [[Registration number 10023]] Please vote. [[10:45:08]] For 331 Decision taken. On the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension of teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers. [[Registration number 10064]] Please vote. Please withdraw the vote. Simonenko, please. Then he is the head of the Suškević Committee on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u24	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that the need to adopt a bill is dictated, firstly, by a low level of education and health care in rural areas, secondly, by a catastrophicly low level of social protection for health and education workers in rural areas. The project that I proposed: the draft Law on Amendments to Some of Ukraine's Laws deals primarily with the pension of teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers. The aim is to better address the issue of their retirement and to protect this category of people who have carried out an honorable mission to serve our state. What does the bill foresee? First, it provides for the introduction of a pension account for teachers, medical and pharmaceutical workers of 80 percent of the wages determined by the relevant law. During each full year of teaching work, a health - care worker has increased more than 25 years by one percent of his salary, but not more than 90 percent of his average monthly salary. As you can see, specific suggestions are designed to give a chance to young people today who are determined in their future work, primarily in rural areas. And the fact that there is a catastrophic shortage of footage in rural areas today, the shrinking of schools, the shrinking number of our teaching teams, that's exactly what's leading to the effects that no one's ever taught today. And the medical reform that is being implemented today, unfortunately, is taking place in our territory of four areas, regarding medical care, I would like to refer to those who imposed this experiment, especially with regard to rural areas. Please do these experiments on rabbits, not on living people. The result is that in the country, they simply do not know how to view authority. So the faction of the Company suggests that we consider this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u25	Valeriy Suškevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u26	Thank you. I can sign under all the words that apply to the support of our education staff and all the other people who need to improve their pension. Unfortunately, though, this bill does not essentially address these issues. We have a long-term government insurance system, a pension insurance system. The bill amends the Education Act and other non-professional laws that make virtually nothing in terms of pension insurance and pension insurance. The committee therefore decided to send the bill for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u27	No, we have to sign up. Please sign up. Yes, I'd like the names of the National Deputies. Pavlovsky, please. Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u28	Andrew Pavlovsky, "Fatherland." Please tell Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u29	Please, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u30	Gentlemen, it is obvious that the prestige of the village work needs to be raised. But from a formal point of view, we have Bill 10073, which we need to put as an alternative, as an alternative to that, and consider in the complex. [[author Pavlovski]] And the second thing. Don't break pension legislation, don't break it like that, because it's a very bad trend. If you want to change something in this part of pension legislation, then change the rate of deduction to the corresponding professions, i.e. not 32 percent, not the only contribution of 34.8, but bet 50. And then the pensions are really going to be 80 percent on the way out. What we're doing right now is we're going to fund this category at the expense of other pensioners. We need to be very careful about the matter. And pension legislation is very conservative legislation, and so, from the Bay of Barak, you can't move. So there's two things: first, consider it with an alternative, and second, finish it and make it a normal project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u31	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u32	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, we have just heard before my speech a real defender of the nation who cares about anything, but not about improving the pensions of Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, unfortunately, today, three quarters of the population of Ukraine are receiving a pension of 1,000 dollars and less. But what's even worse is that among the categories that get the smallest pensions, teachers, doctors, pharmacists, that's unacceptable. That's why I fully support the approach that my colleague declared by faction, by party, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko. We really need to solve this problem. We remember that in due course there were bills that proposed to introduce these categories to the State Service Act. They didn't take that approach. But today, when we're trying to put some of the positions, the normal positions of this law, on those people who are working directly for the state that are working to solve state problems, it's absolutely right. Isn't that right? Your Honor, who's the teacher working for? Who's the doctor working for? He works for the state, for the needs of Ukrainian citizens. And this problem needs to be solved. That's why I, the faction of the Company of Ukraine, propose this bill to support and, in the end, to move from words to things: try to solve the pension problem of this category of Ukrainian citizens. And I'll tell you more. You know, this bill could be called something else, like a bill on solving acute human resources problems in medicine, in education, particularly in the countryside. Because we have to think about tomorrow, who's going to teach, who's going to treat in the country and in the city tomorrow. So this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u33	Ruslan Knazevich, faction of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense"
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u34	I'm asking you to hand over Karpuk to Vladimir Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u35	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u36	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, today we are discussing the issue of inclusion only in the agenda. Is there a need to discuss the issue of the pension of teaching, medical, and pharmaceutical workers? Today, the average pay in medicine is about a thousand 680 carbs -- 18 percent less than in pedagogical workers and more than a third less than in industry on average, not responding to our domestic legislation. Therefore, the author's proposal for 80 per cent pension is even a very small part of what has to be paid for the retirement of medical or pharmaceutical or pedagogical workers. And the increase in retirement age, the introduction of an apprenticeship of 25 years for women, 35 percent for men has undermined the interest of highly professional medical, pharmaceutical, and pedagogical workers in this field, leading to the elimination of skilled workers. So at least these steps are considered right and we will support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, there is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension of teachers, medical and pharmaceutical workers. [[Registration number 10064]] Please vote. Please vote. [[10:54:28]] For-127 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. The Party of Regions -2, "BUT - Fatherland" - 71, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" - 21, Communists - 25, People's Party - 1, "Reforms for the Future" - 1, non-fractional - 6. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Judiciality for the Improvement of the Treatment of Certain Cases. What? One minute! Is there a reporter? Kiwalov? None. Please sign up: 2 for, 2 for. Names, please print them out. Anatoly Matvienko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u38	Knazevitch!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u39	Ruslan Knazevich, please. Then there's Olena Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u40	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! The process of total review of electoral legislation began with a completely Jesuit way: not directly with regard to amendments to the Elections Act, but primarily through the Constitutional Court's decision. And one of them happened on April 5, one of them, 10 minutes ago. Today’s bill puts a fat spot in the process of holding fair elections in Ukraine. The point is that under the veiled name of, let's say, improving the order of the judiciary, there is actually an attempt to change the procedure for dealing with cases concerning the Code of Administrative Justice in the area of the prosecution of decisions, actions and inaction of the electoral commissions. Dear Ukrainians, consider if this law is passed, tomorrow no decision, action or omission, except that the voter committee cannot be considered in the courts. Moreover, no action, decision, or omission of a member of the commission at all during all his activities can be charged. This means that we're going to have a total, absolute anarchy in the election boards, and as far as I'm concerned, we're going to solve it, and we're going to open the way completely to falsification. Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, given that there is a conclusion of the Committee on Legal Policy, and considering that there is a conclusion of the Scientific and Expertial Authority, which is based on the violation of at least 3 articles of the Constitution in this bill, in accordance with 94 articles of the Rules, I demand that this bill be sent for further work and returned to its subject of the legislative initiative without consideration to the sessions of the Supreme Council, as required by our Rules. At least I'm asking you to follow the word you said yesterday in public that you're not going to support any changes in electoral legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u41	Helen Shustick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u42	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask you not to vote in favour of putting the bill in order. Many of the flaws of this bill have already been identified by my colleague Ruslan. The Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" will not vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of this bill, because the attractive title for improving the procedure for dealing with individual categories of cases in the courts is once again under justice. The project prohibits the prosecution of decisions, actions, or omissions of election committees. And if any decisions of the electoral commissions and their members can now be sued, then the draft electoral process subjects are entitled only to vote and to the summation of the vote and the results of the local elections. In addition, according to the project of accusing decisions, actions, or omissions of ministries, other central executive authorities, their officials, or officials, are once again impossible. The same applies to the prosecution of decisions, actions or omissions of officials or officials of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine. Moreover, the bill allows administrative arrests on the tax payer's account without a court ruling and by confirmation of such arrest by the court, although the Tax Code provides that such arrests are made solely on the basis of a court decision. It is suggested that you consider tax matters in the order of written conduct, and think about it. And that means that the parties just won't be called. The possibility of a cassation of such decisions is also overturned. Such novels are not a simplification for the lives of taxpayers, but they are by no means a guarantee of the judicial protection of our citizens. Thank you for your attention and please don't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here. Yes, please, who's going to be the performer? Please, Koleschenka, you have the right to speak. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the bill certainly liberalizes and democratizes the situation in administrative proceedings, and this is particularly important in the short-term electoral process. There are, of course, patterns and nuances that can be taken into account when preparing for second reading with the participation of professionals and the public concerned. However, we cannot accept that there are issues that are not yet resolved. We therefore propose that we vote in favour of putting the matter on the agenda and voting it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. Regarding the proposals that were made: Return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. We haven't considered it, if the Supreme Council looks, puts it in the agenda, then it can make a decision on the return. If not included in the agenda, this automatically means that he is returning to the subject of the legislative initiative. Therefore, the first vote is to propose the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[on improving the order in which individual categories of affairs are dealt with]] Please be sure. [[11:01:24]] For 193 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 180, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 2, Communists – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 0, National Party – 0, non-factional – 11. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on State-Private Partnerships]] [[Registration number 1028]] Please vote. [[11:02:08]] For 237 Decision taken. A vote is taken on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social guarantees to teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas. Please, Simonenko. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we have already talked about the need to support those who want to work in the countryside, to work with our young people, with our peasants. But I would also like to draw your attention to the need for a serious review today regarding the problems and social support policies of those who want to work there. As you recall, there were times when we had houses built in every farm and radgospa for young specialists to come and get them, they lived there, their families lived there, and the village grew. The project that we, the Company's faction, have proposed, provides for appropriate changes to some laws and, in particular, proposes to introduce such additional social guarantees for public and municipal officials of education and health care. First. Solve the issue of housing benefits for pedagogical and medical workers at the expense of obtaining a service home, acquiring ownership of the employee’s entitlement to service housing, and if continuous work in a state institution within a residential area is not less than 15 years, or obtaining an interest-free long-term loan for the acquisition or construction of an individual’s dwelling. Provide teachers and health - care workers with annual material assistance in the amount of one full - time job salary, a model service assignment, and a monthly allowance of 50 percent of the salary during the first 7 years of work to encourage young people to work in rural areas. Provide social bonuses in the form of a non-performing loan for private car transport and free subscription of domestic professional magazines. And cancel some of the restrictions on the social protection of health and pedagogical employees of state institutions in rural areas, provided for by article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act. I suggest you look at it and support it to include in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u47	Yes. Please sign up for the discussion: two for, two for the opposite. May I have the names of the people's deputies on the board? Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u48	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". For many years, or decades, it has been said that we do not have enough medical teachers, pharmacists, cultural workers, and others in rural areas. Many different initiatives, many bills that are unfortunately not adopted, but so far no concrete steps have been taken. The proposals in the bill don't solve all the problems, but they're for workers who get a small salary, pension insurance is still a big deal. At the same time, our neighbors, for example in the Russian Federation, have specific solutions: there are national and regional programs. Let's say we don't have more than 20,000 doctors in Ukraine, especially in the rural area about 30 percent, or more than 30 percent, of the health workers who work, are people of retirement age. And in the Russian Federation, a man, a doctor with higher education, who goes to the country, gets one million rubles. It's over $30,000, it's weight, it's for housing, and it's for job security and so on. We have only one declaration, at least in the small part, to facilitate the employment of young workers, to ensure the prestige of working in rural areas of these categories of workers, we support the inclusion in the agenda of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u49	Sergey Shevchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u50	Andrew Pavlovsky is eager to speak. Give him your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u51	Please, Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u52	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, our faction of Yulia Timoshenko's "Fatherland" proposes to include the bill in the agenda. And we vote in favour of its inclusion, as we voted in favour of the previous law, 164, on improving the pension provision of teachers, doctors, pharmacists. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that since the opposition was filed early in January, Bill 173, registered, has been called: "The Social Guarantees of Educative, Scientific and Medical Workers." So why doesn't he go along with this bill? They could be viewed as alternatives. This is a note to the Supreme Council's apparatus. And that's where we propose similar standards. We also support the standard proposed in the bill: and the right to tax housing for teachers, doctors, especially young specialists in rural areas, and to provide them with adequate material assistance. But at the same time, the alternative "Paternity" bill proposes, not 50 percent before the office salary, to provide material aid, but the size of two official salaries. And I would also like to point out that the alternative bill also proposes to increase the benefit of years for teachers, doctors. And we're offering a benefit, for example, in 20 years, up to 50 percent to make that allowance. Well, I'd like to remind my fellow Communists that these bills had to be passed throughout the entire office, not to mention teachers and doctors just before the election. Where have you been for two years in this vast majority of the oligartics? And every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u53	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, for example, I don't think there'll be a person in the session room who doesn't know the state of affairs in the country, especially with regard to the need to raise the authority and prestige of teaching, medical, pharmaceutical workers. Unfortunately, we are. Of course, these bills must be supported by social bills that have a financial or budgetary basis. I see more questions and more declarativeity now in this bill. Like getting a job home or a house. At what cost? So this has to be budgeted. Which one? In the locals. According to previous estimates, the bill only requires an additional 9 billion from local budgets. An interest-free long-term housing loan. This is the bank that has to deposit, and then this deposit money is going to give someone interest-free credit -- it hasn't happened yet in Ukraine, unfortunately. Or an interest-free loan to buy a light private car. What bank is doing this in Ukraine today? In general, we have one point: absolutely no justification for the need for budgetary expenditure. We're going to be looking at the changes to the budget now from the results of the first quarter. Let's predict in the budget, after the first quarter, the necessary amount of money, and then under that source we'll adopt a bill that has a social orientation. Unfortunately, this bill is declarative, it has no basis. Hence, it is unlikely that it will benefit people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u55	Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u56	Thank you. We need to be very careful about the work, the initiative of the faction of the Company of Ukraine. We, by the way, an honorary colleague, offered to create a bank to finance the village's problems. You didn't support it. We, by the way, when we were in power and BIT, and now several times we've offered to address the issue of pension and social protection of our budget. It's teachers, it's teachers, it's doctors. Then, when you were in power, you didn't vote. And that's why you don't have to blink because you "thirled" then you, and now we're talking, there's no justification and there's no money. Because the money's been blown out of your pockets! That is why there is no justification! I want to talk to you and tell you. 65 percent of teachers are retired. What will we do next? Optimize? Destroy schools? I'd like to see another one of you. Teacher, the medic won't go to the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u57	Thank you. Honourable National MPs are voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning social guarantees to teaching, medical and pharmaceutical workers working in rural areas. [[Registration number 10063]] Please vote. Vote, please. [[11:12:41]] For 134 The decision is not taken. A proposal is put to the vote. The factions? Please. Regional Party – 0, "BUT – Fatherland" – 73, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 12, Communists – 25, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 3. I would like to vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine. [[on State Tax Service and on Administrative Reform in Ukraine]] Registration number 10224. Please vote. [[11:13:28]] For 265 Decision taken. A motion for inclusion in the agenda of the bill shall be put to the vote. [[concerning the sorting of the tax declaration]] [[Registration number 10281]] Please vote. [[11:13:55]] For 263 Decision taken. It is covered by the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on the purchase of natural gas]] [[Registration number 10305]] Please vote. [[11:14:26]] For 241 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law 10317: amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[government]] We agreed that only the government would give it -- we would put it into the agenda. Please vote. [[11:14:56]] For 266 Decision taken. I ask the committees to prepare drafts that are included in the agenda for their consideration in the session room. Honourable National MPs, two factions: the BUT faction, "The Fatherland", the faction "Our Ukraine -- the People's Self-Defense" -- demand a recess to hold consultations. I offered to make a statement. They refuse, they demand a recess. Meetings of the Conciliation Board should be held? The opposition will advise. Or are we happy that we will continue to meet? I have to call a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Rules. Yeah? Up to 11 o'clock, 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u58	Please take your seats in the session room, we'll continue our work. Two factions: the Faction of the Fatherland and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" - according to the Rules had a 30-minute break. I'd like to ask if you have a statement on this, please make a statement. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u59	The latest statements made by First Deputy Attorney General Renat Kuzmin are actions that directly fall under the signs of crime when 70 million were thrown out for the so-called audit of the government of Timoshenko - and were unable to find anything other than the purchase of "fast assistance" for the rural area and the timely payment of pensions. New cases have emerged — political orders from the Attorney General’s Office — namely, the so - called gas case. When this case did not find support in either Ukrainian or foreign society, a 17-year-old case called EESU was found. When it became clear that it was also a battle map, the attorney general’s first deputy decided to accuse the leader of the opposition of the so - called murder. I think more cynicism is unlikely to be imagined, because let's mention this list of killed businessmen and politicians in the Donetsk region. What is Bragin’s murder worth? What's the value of killing Scrooge? What is the value of killing Momot? What's killing the director of the Sharmat brewery worth? What is the value of killing many and many others? But the key question is, who actually did own all these lost businessmen and politicians, who owned the property of the last dead politician, the famous actor of Kharkishchi, who was the most famous in the Party of Regions? I think it all leads to one chain. And that's why our two factions claim that no criminal procedure code without a radical change in the Attorney General's Office and the Ukrainian judicial system will be able to do anything in the state, it'll just be a cover-up, a fig leaf, that will allow the international community to report on alleged obligations. And in the country, political repression and abuse of opposition will continue to cover up precisely because of these so - called changes. That is why our two factions insist that the immediate question of the responsibility of the officials of the Attorney General's Office be resolved and, above all, the Attorney General and his first Deputy General, Renata Kuzmin, who are directly responsible for further inciting political repression in the country. Without solving this issue, any other issue is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to announce to you the question of the draft Criminal Procedure Code. Ladies and gentlemen, you are given two volumes of the draft law and a supplement to it, which is on 48 pages. Therefore, honourable national deputies, I invite you to the presentation. Please, Sergei Sass, microphone. And now I'm going to put to the vote the proposal that we work until the issue is resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u61	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Sergey Sass, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the committee profiled in a specific way was considering this bill. In three hours, 130 amendments were made, and then they were voted on by a gamboose. To correct or confirm this information, I ask that the secretary of this committee be given the floor to explain how the bill was adopted on the committee. And in view of this, I ask that the provisions of article 45 of the Rules be implemented, because this issue has an extremely broad social interest: that you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, as chairman, should make it clear to our audiences that what is going on, read out all the amendments that are put to the vote, discussed all the amendments -- and we continued to go through discussions as envisaged in article 120 of the Rules and article 45 of the Rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u62	Thank you, too. Obviously, we have repeatedly told you that we will view it as required by the Rules. This is the first time. Secondly, I got the papers signed by the committee head, so I don't think there's any reason to listen to the secretary. Otherwise, you will suggest that we listen to the committee’s staff on this matter. Thank you. I didn't listen, I didn't see a document from the secretary of the committee about a special opinion. And you're not a member of the committee. Please calm down. Now it's Chechtev. It's different according to the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u63	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to say to the speaker in front of me that whatever the Committee takes there, the last instance legally legitimizing, I repeat, the last instance legally legitimizing is that of the Committees, if the Committee is mistaken, is the session of the Supreme Council. Therefore, today's sessional room, today's deputies by their vote, I repeat, will confirm the legitimacy of this document. Let's not take too long and start looking at it, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, given the fact that this is a very large document, and we cannot interrupt the consideration of the matter, so I, uh, just a minute, well, please calm down. It'll be fair. We would then have to vote, as I suggested on the Conciliation Council: to hold meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the issue is concluded. So I'm putting to the vote this proposal to continue the evening meeting of the Supreme Council until the issue is resolved and we'll see how it goes. Please vote. [[11:52:12]] For 226 The precision that you see in 226. Decision taken. The rapporteur is the first deputy chairman of the committee, Vladimir Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The adoption of a new edition of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure was long overdue, but a decisive step in power was constantly lacking in political will to make it take 15 years. It has been just so long since that historic event when Ukraine chose the European path of development and made a commitment to reform criminal justice. Ukrainian President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, by his decree in 2010, created a working group that prepared a draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. The bill has been drafted with several European legal expertise. Their conclusions are clear: the CPC project meets European standards by 99 per cent. Paragraph 8.4 of the Paris Resolution on Ukraine of 26 January this year states that the Assembly "welcomes the fact that the President of Ukraine has submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a new draft of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code and calls on the Supreme Council to adopt this law in the fastest possible manner, which takes fully into account the recommendations of the experts of the Council of Europe during their consideration of the draft law." [[quote]] Most of the Ukrainian experts supported such conclusions, and without exaggeration they call the KPC's Presidential Project "the Small Constitution of Ukraine". The CPC project will put the interests of the citizen first, not of the law enforcement authorities. It introduces real competition in the criminal process, reduces the number of arrests, and creates grounds for acquittals. There is a substantial reduction in torture and torture expected, since the appearance with due regard is no longer "queen of evidence." It is a rule that all restrictions on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, such as arrest, search, causation and others, can be applied only by the consent of the court. The duration of the investigation and the maintenance of custody is reduced to 6 or 12 months, depending on the severity of the crime. During the preparation of the CPC, 3,000 755 amendments were processed by the Committee. Partially or completely 1,085 amendments have been taken into account, and 2,000 217 proposals are proposed to be rejected. In addition, on 453 proposals, the committee did not make the final decision and asked that the decision be taken here in the hall. I also point out that you've been given a table on 48 sheets, where 136 proposals from the General Legal Authority were taken into account. The committee proposes to review the amendments and adopt the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u66	Yes, dear fellows, we must now proceed to the consideration of the amendments. At the same time, we have a written address with the special thought of Yuri Carmazin. So I say, let's let him speak, and then we'll go over the amendments to take into account the special point. No objections? Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u67	I have made 323 proposals to this code, which, if taken into account, could really radically change the Criminal Procedure Code, make it human-oriented and their needs rather than create favourable conditions for the authorities as puppets to manipulate anyone they want. The code in the form it is now must be sent to a fundamental development with public participation, and it must not be accepted at all. He's going to paralyze the law enforcement system, further increase the workload on investigators by 4-5 million cases. I say it with responsibility. This room was in a hurry to adopt the Tax Code, and this room was in a hurry to adopt judicial reform, and we saw what came out of it. However, the authorities are demonstrating in their policy the consistency and acceptance of this document is another step towards the saviour, in my opinion, and the defenselessness of the people. Obviously, this codex is intended for election. It no longer has a degree of commitment to responsibility, which is the basis for a change in the Constitution. A body such as the Constitutional Court has been ignored. The Supreme Court, as a higher body in this code, is virtually absent. There's no jury at all. You don't need to rename judges under the jury, that's the whole point. The jury in the classical form in which it exists in other countries to which it contemplated the Constitution simply does not exist. The draft of the new CPC does not regulate paragraph 9 of the Transitional Regulations of 1996 of the Constitution: the creation of a proper system of pre-trial investigation. On the negative side, the role of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is being changed, and it narrows down to those who may be lawyers. Thus, the right to protection has been violated. In fact, the CPC project establishes a full monopoly of lawyers on the provision of legal assistance to relevant persons when criminal conduct is carried out. The proposed amendments to current legislation on legal aid run counter to article 59 of the Constitution, which guarantees everyone’s right to be free in choosing a defender of his rights; it also contradicts the decision of the Constitutional Court since 2000. Yes, this code will use a plea agreement instead of an appearance. This is a serious thing that will be beaten, where a person denies part of his rights. And this is thought to be the tip of constitutionalism. In fact, the projects do not provide for a proper guarantee of the procedural status of the victim and protection of his or her interests. The overall position of the KPC is very good. At the same time, this cannot be said of the entire CPC. As a result, I believe that if you are going to make your own decisions, to impose, to dictate, so do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u69	So answer for what you're doing. I'm not going to take 16 hours of the time that I have to make amendments, do it yourself, answer it yourself, but understand that there will be chaos and total paralysis of the law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u70	Thank you. Calm down! I had to form a document. All members of the committee will now have a separate opinion. I'd like to ask you! Carmazin made the right decision, and he made a separate point. Dear colleagues, let us now move on to practical consideration. I'm the only one I'm paying attention to, and I'm asking our distinguished rapporteur to take fully into account the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that we took into account as a result of the first reading of the bill, which is, to be clear, I stress once again the articles of the Constitution, particularly the 80s and 126s, so that there is no money. Now, please, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, let's go to the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u71	The amendment of the People's Deputy of Moses number one, which proposes an MP in the title, is the title "Criminal Procedural Code" and further amends the entire text of the draft, and in the text of the draft, the word "higher relative to the prosecutor" should be replaced by the word "higher level". Since the committee has not identified itself in this matter, it proposes that the Supreme Council be elected by vote, put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u72	Volodymyr Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u73	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to confirm Yuri Karmazin’s words that the codex had been approved and prepared for the second reading in a hurry. For the first time in 10 years of my work on the committee, the committee was politically divided into a majority and a minority. In two hours of working time, members of the committee, of the majority, made 4,000 amendments. At this time, they are too small to be numbered. But there's no time, so I'll get to the repairs. The name "Criminal Procedure Code" is set out in the legislative practice. Forensic and investigative practices are used to this term, scientific thinking is used to this term, so there's no need to change it to Criminal Code. And as for the word "superintendent prosecutor," the draft code uses both "high-level prosecutor" and "high-level prosecutor." So I'm stressing that it's the "high-level prosecutor" that's right. Please consider the amendment and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u74	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u75	The committee was not defined, but asked for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, with regard to the name "Criminal Procedural Code" or "Criminal Procedural Code," I think we should put the amendment to the vote now. Let's vote on this part: the proposal by Vladimir Moysik for the title of the Criminal Procedure Code. There's another term for "Criminal Criminal Code." But let's all vote now and then vote for what kind of name it was. If others are not supported, which was suggested in the first version. As for the second part of the amendment: the word "higher" is replaced by "higher level", from the point of view of grammar, the logic here is absolute. "Higher" is Russianism and "higher level" is what I think we should support. This is why the proposal to name the draft law, and more specifically the law, not the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine, is now being put to the vote, but rather the "Criminal and Procedural Code of Ukraine". Please be sure. [[12:03:48]] For-51 Correction not supported. Now I'm putting a motion to vote to replace the word "higher" with the term "higher level." Please vote. Please vote. Well, it's a technical edit, I'd say even technically speaking. [[12:04:15]] Z-87 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, if we make a decision, then we'll have technical editing done and then we'll take it into account. Let's move on. Amendment 2 doesn't vote. 3 revisions. Sergei Mishchenko, please. Is she insisting on it? He's refusing. Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, 4th Amendment. Do you insist, Viktor Dmitrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u77	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u78	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u79	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I suggest you change the name from "Criminal Procedural Code" to "Carno Procedural Code." My proposal is based on what we should go back, first, to Ukrainian terminology, secondly, we should say to the whole world, and first of all to the Ukrainian society, that the period when Ukrainian law was committed, when human rights and freedoms were violated, when people were innocently condemned and thrown into prisons, including persecution of opposition, ended. It turns out that we're not just changing the name, we're changing our approach to protecting people's rights and freedoms. We will no longer allow for the lawlessness permitted under the Code of Criminal Procedure in relation to Julia Timoshenko and other prisoners. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u80	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u81	I, my dear friends, propose to change the name, and in this step we will show the whole world that in Ukraine our approaches to human rights and freedoms have changed dramatically. Thank you for your attention. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u82	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u83	It is proposed to determine and support the voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, in addition. In the extra table, this proposal is included. That's why we have to put it. May I have your attention, please? to vote on the approval of this amendment because it is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u85	Yeah. If it's in the last edition of the committee, it's counted, so to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u86	That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'll bet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u87	Counted!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u88	It's included in the last edition of the pre-processing process. I'm voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment No. 1 of Victor Sweden replacing the name of the Criminal Procedure Code Project with the Code of Criminal Procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:17]] For-75 No correction supported. Next. Amendment 5, Odarchenka. Microphone, please, Yuri Odarchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, drafters of the Code copied the American model of criminal responsibility, where it is divided into administrative offences, minor criminal offences, and crimes. But for Ukraine, this division makes no sense; it will only lead to confusion and an increase in the number of criminal criminals. I propose leaving the criminal responsibility system in order to leave everyone familiar with the notion of crime and administrative misconduct rather than the whole system. Please read what is being done. Now we want to make a criminal offence of spreading rumors, breaking the order of the rally. All these people will become criminals after we vote in favour of this draft Code of Criminal Procedure. I ask you not to vote, but to think about what we do: we violate the rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u90	The committee decided to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u91	Amendment 5 of Jury Odarchenka shall be put to the vote. [[12:08:55]] For-59 Correction not supported. Amendment 6, Roman Zvaric. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, since Roman Mikhailovich does not insist, we must now. What's that? No, no, wait. We must now, Your Honor, vote on the name of the law. I put to the vote the name of the law, the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:09:44]] For 238. Decision taken. Now we're looking at, your honorary colleagues, chapter I, General Positions. Amendment 7. Roman Zvaric, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! One advantage of this code is that equality is established between the defence party and the prosecution party. In view of that, I propose that the word "prosecutor" be replaced by the word "prosecutor" in cases where it is already in the case of a signed indictment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u94	This amendment is partially taken into account by the committee. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u95	The vote on approval shall be amended as follows: [[12:10:58]] For-33 The decision is not taken. Now let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u96	Eight.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u97	Vladimir Mikolaiovich! Just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u98	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u99	Amendment 8, Gregory Omelchenko. Don't insist. Amendment 9, Basil Gretzak. Don't insist. 10th, Arseny Yatzenyuk. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u100	Honorable Members of Parliament! Of course, there must be a criminal code in Ukraine that protects the individual and the citizen first, not protects the prosecutor, the investigator, the policeman, and those who actually abuse citizens in Ukraine. I would like to separate myself from the procurator’s authority in this code. And I'm asking you to vote in favour of expelling the prosecutor as a person who has inseparable powers over investigators. And I'm going to say separately that experts point out that the prosecutor is in fact nothing but a means of criminalizing the code. In other words, I propose that the investigator be an independent figure so that the prosecutor has no right to intervene in the criminal prosecution process itself, so that the prosecutor does not direct the investigator and does not give him direct orders that the investigator, in accordance with the draft code, will also be criminally responsible. So please put my amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u101	The committee recommended a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u102	Honorable People's Deputies, Amendment 10, by Arsenius Yatzenuk. [[12:13:16]] For-75 Correction not supported. Let's move on. Amendment 11, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u103	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u104	Amendment 12, Arsenius Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u105	Once again, I would like to stress the need to legitimize the activities of the prosecutor’s office in Ukraine. The procurator’s mandate under the draft Code is not in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. The procurator's mandate today, as proposed by the Code, is in fact the authority of both the state prosecutor and the investigator, but there is still no authority of the judge, although in principle, given the latest criminal proceedings in Ukraine, we have everything decided in the Office of the President, not in the Prosecutor's Office. Therefore, I insist that I remove the prosecutor as one who has the right to entrust the investigating authority with conducting investigations that authorizes the investigating authority to investigate the conduct of investigations in a period of investigation established by the prosecutor, which is responsible for the sanctioning of non-public investigative investigations. The prosecutor should support the State’s accusation rather than tell the investigator how to conduct the investigation directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u106	Both experts and the committee recommended a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u107	I'm willing to vote on the 12th amendment. The author is Arsenius Yatsenuk. [[12:15:02]] Z-62 Correction not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u108	13 amendments. Arsenius Yatsenuk's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u109	Dear colleagues! This amendment is rejected and applies to the previous three amendments. Once again, I would like to emphasize the role and place of the prosecutor's office. I am well aware of how this codex was considered, primarily by the law enforcement system. Because the law enforcement system is designed not to have a criminal code, but a criminal code, in order to have incredible powers in relation to the defendant, in relation to the investigator, in relation to any person who is not entitled to defend himself. I'm talking to most of them again. Your Honor, it's not the prosecutor's business to run all the investigation. To this end, an independent investigator institution is established, which is not controlled in all its procedural actions by the prosecutor. The prosecutor should take the stage of bringing charges and bringing the charges before the court. Then why do we have an independent investigator's institute to tell him how to conduct the investigation? Why do you leave the Soviet Institute of Soviet Prosecutions in the new Ukraine? Take them out of their jurisdiction, they'll stop taking bribes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u110	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u111	Arsenius Petrovich, you know very well that the investigating institute is not independent today. And the question lies in the responsibility of the law, both the prosecutor and the investigator, for the following actions. In this regard, the committee and experts felt that your amendment should be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u112	13 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[12:16:51]] For-59 Correction not supported. 14th Amendment. Snack. No, it's not. Don't insist. Savechenko Igor. 15 revisions. No, it's not. 16 revisions. Odarchenko. Counted. Please, microphone, Odarchenka. Your amendment has been taken into account. They're asking for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u113	I don't insist on confirmation. Counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u114	Then I put to the vote, please note, 16 amendments to the confirmation. Please vote. [[12:17:41]] Z-62 The amendment is not confirmed. Yes, Amendment 17. Let's go. Amendment 18 is counted. Who insists on it? For confirmation? There's no insistence? None. Then it's 19. Counted. Please, Vladimir Moses of the 19th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u115	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, this is what we're talking about. The project determines that the criminal and procedural legislation of Ukraine consists of the Constitution, the international treaties that we have agreed with you on for Ukraine, and this code. But the Transitional Positions Code contains 20 more laws that contain criminal and procedural norms. So the committee considered the amendment, added that "this code and other laws," and correctly added "the practice of the European Court of Human Rights." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u116	The committee took this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u117	Puts the vote to the vote. Please, Chechtov microphone. Please, I'm begging you! From now on, Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u118	Dear Vladimir Mihajlović, distinguished colleagues, in our view, do not fully fit into the general concept of the law this amendment. Therefore, please place the amendment to the session room for finalization.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u119	Please, Victor Schwetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u120	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, look, you've passed the 17th amendment, which is the end of the first article of the Criminal Procedure Code in the new edition. But we have an additional table, where there is also an amendment that applies to the 1 article, it would be more appropriate for us to finish with the 1 article of the CPC, that is, consider the addition table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u121	And it only goes there, starting with 2 articles, there's only 2 articles going on. That's why we're going the right way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u122	From article 2 of this magazine. Head of Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I'd like to vote on the amendment of the 19th, which has been considered by the committee, to confirm it. [[12:20:20]] Z-62 The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 20 counted. No warning? Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, in terms of experts, did not correct the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u125	I'm betting on 20 amendments to the vote to confirm it. [[12:21:05]] For-43 Correction not supported. Amendment 21. Please, Chechtov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, a respected colleague, the text that was prescribed on first reading is clearer and more embossed than the blurryness of the second amendment that is proposed. So please ask for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u127	Yes, please, Roman Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u128	I have to say something here. Well, this is when Mr. Chechetov speaks, I'm saying that the first-reading edition is more clearly reflecting what's going on, I'd like to just essentially. In part, these words are added: "and other laws of Ukraine." What are we talking about? We're playing games here, I don't understand. Thus, Vladimir Mikhailovich, if denied, does not seem necessary for someone who insists on confirming the amendment. Because otherwise, it makes me react to this, well, not exactly the right trailers of the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u129	I'll tell you on this point that I'm obliged to give you the floor for the speech, I have no other option. Dear colleagues, there are 21 amendments to the vote to confirm it. [[12:22:44]] For-47 Correction not supported. Amendment 22 is the same. So she does, but she doesn't vote-- she takes off then. That's when she shoots. If we haven't counted one, then this is the exact same thing, it's coming off. I mean, 22 amendments. 23rd Kivalov. Please, microphone, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u130	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to tell the previous speaker that whatever smart lawyer is in this room, one sessional hall is always smarter and wiser, he always makes the right decision. I'm requesting confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u131	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 23 to confirm it. [[12:23:49]] For-30 Correction not supported. Amendment 24, she is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u132	The committee counted it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u133	The committee is accounted for. No warning? Please, Mikhail Chechtev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u134	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Request for final legalization of Amendment 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u135	24 amendments shall be made to the vote. [[12:24:36]] For-52 Correction not counted. 25 revisions counted. Dear colleagues, note what we are breaking the writings, the revisions of Pisarenko and Philippenica. In the second part of article 1, replace the words "before this Code" with the words "this Code and other laws of Ukraine." We voted it out, it's confirmed. It's exactly the same in Carmazin. She doesn't have to vote, she's already counted. Dear colleagues, is this all taken into account that we have to vote here? Please, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhajlovich, given that this is a key amendment, I ask that you place it for confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u137	So it has already been voted. It's just going, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, uh, it's just that, And since the first amendment -- it's confirmed -- everyone else was also, it's written that they're counted, you know? I don't see a problem here. The point is that these amendments are identical, absolutely identical. Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u138	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I was just talking about this when he was speaking, was giving a replica to Mr. Chechchev's remarks when he denied that the correction of Grimchak and the words "and other laws of Ukraine" were taken into account, even though he himself voted in favour of the amendment of Philipchuck and Philippenica, where exactly the same words were taken into account. [[Give him a line, I'll be happy to hear what he says.]] I mean, don't you think it's some kind of circus?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, there are no contradictions here. The point is that the amendment of Pisarenko and Pilpenka is taken into account, and all other amendments are repeated, and they are already included. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u140	They're accounted for. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u141	But it's all taken into account, I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u142	They're identical, so there's nothing to vote on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u143	Amendment 26, Mishchenko doesn't insist. Amendment 27 doesn't insist. Now we have to vote on the first article, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u145	What's the story? Well, then we vote 1 article now, right? In view of that, it was supported or not supported by the Supreme Council. So, honourable colleagues, I am now putting to the vote, please note, article 1 taking into account decisions taken by the Supreme Council in the process of considering article 1 of the first chapter of "The Criminal Procedural Legislation of Ukraine and the Limits of Its Action". May I have your attention, Your Honor, please vote. [[12:28:07]] For 232 Article accepted. I beg you, at the end of the vote there will be. I ask you, calm down, the reasons for the vote will be in the end, I beg you. Dear colleague, please. Now it's article 2: "Criminal justice." Amendment 28. It's partially accounted for. Are you insisting on her? Please, Roman Zvarich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u146	Vladimir Mikhailovich, I will not insist on voting, but it is still a principle position for me. I'd like to explain why. I am convinced that, after the Constitution, the most important document that could be in any state is a similar document where the procedural rules of criminal justice are defined. That's why I'm saying this, because it's the procedural positions, the procedural requirements of the law that are the mechanisms that will protect human rights. So I insisted on one word association where the code would require prosecutors, investigators and other participants to follow the process properly -- what the Anglo-Saxon tradition called "du piges". But since this is included in an additional comparative table, which is also given to us, I will not insist on voting on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u147	Thank you. 28 Amendments apply to confirmation. You may not insist, but other deputies have that right. I'd like to make up my mind. 28 amendment for confirmation. [[12:30:02]] For-37 Not supported. Yes, Amendment 29, Zabarsky. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u148	The committee counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u149	29th. You're not Zabarsky yet, Sas. You're not Zabarski yet. You're not Zabarsky yet. Zabarsky, please. You won't? Yes, please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, given that the terms "judgment" and "implementation" are not identical, I ask that this amendment be made for confirmation. Thank you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u151	Yes, Zabarski's 29th amendment is confirmed. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:31:10]] For-0 Sas Chechchev’s help led to a positive outcome. Yeah, 30, Sass, fix it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u152	Declined by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u153	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Dear colleagues, well, obviously the task of criminal conduct shouldn't have an excessive number of targets and level the foundation, the essence of criminal procedure. In the version proposed by the government, by the majority, the President's Administration is defined as the main task of providing compensation for the damage caused by the crime. Despite the fact that the bill introduces a new category of legal: "criminal misconduct", which is similar to crimes of minor gravity, there is no need to compensate for that. So in order for the logic to be assured and the legal purity to be preserved, it would probably have to be written here first: "the fight against the opposition, first of all with Julia Timoshenko," and so vote. Then it'll fit the contents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u154	30 amendments to the vote, please specify. [[12:32:42]] For-41 Not supported. 31 revisions. Don't insist on Carmazin. 32 revisions included in part. [[B in m in s a l in]] There is a proposal of 32 amendments for confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:33:13]] For the four of us. Not confirmed. Yes, 33 revisions. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u155	Yes, please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u156	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Sas, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland. This amendment is key in this article, I ask you to put it on confirmation for confirmation of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u157	I think the amendment is absolutely correct: an open-minded investigation and a duly impartial court. The Court of Justice. There is a suggestion: Put 33 amendments on confirmation. Please vote. [[12:34:07]] For 254 Correction confirmed. Amendment 34, Yatzenuk. Edited. Don't you insist?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u158	Yes, there is a proposal for confirmation. Please vote, be determined. [[12:34:41]] For-43 Not confirmed. 35th Amendment, Kiwalova. Partially counted. Please, Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u159	I'm talking to the press and the public, and I'm looking at the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code. Look at this room. I'm asking the press to identify who. The party of regions is present and is now consecrated by its vote to adopt such a shameful document. When we have documented evidence of crime, we will be suing those who are not in this room, but who seem to have voted. Look at this "gold" hand of Chechtov: it not only wastes people's property, it's breaking the judicial system now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u160	Here's to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u161	And I'm asking the press to fix the press to fix the crime that is now being committed with Chechchev's light hand. Please identify everyone who is not in the hall in order to be able to bring them to trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, for the first time I've excused, but for the second time, if the MP speaks out of question, I'll turn off the microphone. That's the first one. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's the first one. The other one. Don't do what's called "knocking." Third. Look how many are in your faction room. 35th is on. Confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:25]] For-9 Not supported. And, dear colleagues, look at the extra table, Amendment 2, Sweden-Olinik, it's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u163	There after the words "procedural compulsion," to complement the words proposed: " and to ensure that every criminal participant is subject to due process." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u164	Well, it's counted. No one insists on support? So then amendment 2, Sweden-Olinik, from an additional table. No one insists on confirmation, it's counted. We think it's counted. 36 Amendment, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u165	The committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u166	Please. For confirmation? I'll bet 36 on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:37:33]] For-42 Not supported. 37th, Moses. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u167	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich! That's what this is about. In the first reading, we accepted the task of criminal justice, which I consider to be a perfectly faithful and fixed term. Zabarski's amendment, which was intended to replace criminal conduct, was not confirmed by Parliament. So my suggestions are to go back to the same text. If so, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u168	37 amendments to the vote. Although, Volodymyr Romanovich, you know, on the one hand, you're right that it's Ukraine, but you and I are adopting the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. That's why I can't see. And the judiciary remains. I don't see the point of adding Ukraine everywhere. You agree. Thirty-eight repairs, Grissack. Edited. That's 38th for confirmation. [[12:38:54]] For-25 The decision is not supported. 39th Amendment, Bondica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u169	Considered by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u170	I'm sorry. 38th, Gritsaka, we just voted. 39th Amendment, Bondica, accounted for. Bondik. Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u171	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich, such things are very serious here. Bondik suggests "full and impartial investigation" after the words "and judicial review." This is extremely important. I think this should be confirmed by the hall. Thank you. Please submit an amendment to the support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u172	Thank you. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please take a look at the 33 amendments. We've already voted it, and there are these words: "and the trial." We've already voted on this amendment, so it's confirmed, and it's counted here, and it's confirmed by the 33rd vote. Tracker, 40th. Same thing. Dear colleagues! You see, you have a chart in front of you? Take a look at 33 amendments, Malešev and Oliynik, for which we voted 254 votes, where it is to be supplemented by the words: "and the trial." Bondik's 39th amendment: complete with the words "and trial." What else has to be voted on? Under the Rules, if the amendment is voted down or rejected, the same amendment does not apply to voting, i.e. it is supported and is counted here by you. If it hadn't been counted, we might still be able to talk. Sweden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you're absolutely right to say everything, but please look at the 36 amendments that I'm making. There too, it is a matter of judicial review. You put this amendment to confirm -- she didn't get confirmation. I mean, if 33 is supported, it's probably supported by my edit, as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u174	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I gave it a little bit here, because there's other words there besides "and the court." But as for "and the court," it went through, because the 33rd voted, there's no doubt here, including what you're saying. The track is the same thing as "and the trial." She's passed. The prisoners are "and the trial." It's over. Kiwalov is rejected. "Criminal conduct." Kiwalov doesn't insist? So, dear fellows, we passed the second article with you. I'm putting in the second article, "Criminal Justice task" is called the article because we didn't have the lead. "The task of criminal justice." I put this second article to the vote. Please vote. [[12:42:22]] For 255 A decision has been made. Let us move on to 3 articles: The definition of the basic terms of the codex. 43 revisions, Shentz. Don't insist. 44th. Carmazine, don't you think? 45th. Jacinoc. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u175	Dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to pay attention to how this Criminal Procedure Act is now being passed. All the amendments, the opposition made by more than a thousand, and only I made 191 amendments. As soon as such an amendment is put to the vote and there is the name of the opposition, it becomes unknown, and more precisely known, the person from the Party of Regions -- and gives instructions not to vote in favour of amendments to the opposition that are considered by the committee. What kind of dialogue can be discussed in the walls of this Parliament if you refuse to vote for the absolutely reasonable things that the committee has voted for and supports the opposition's position? If you don't want to vote for smart things under the name of opposition, write it down, but don't destroy the criminal process law. As for the standard that is proposed, it is proposed to technically reconcile "living as a family" and to replace where they were living together. So this is technical harmonization according to the Codex.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, it is. But you don't know worse than I do that they don't live in marriage, but they do. But there are 45 amendments, Arsenija Yatsenyuk, to support. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:44:23]] For-48 Not supported. Now we're looking at an extra table, I get it. Amendment 3, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u177	The third Sweden and my amendment, which is proposed after the words "caregiver or caregiver," are added to the words "person who is in care or care." Support is offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, this amendment of Sweden and the Oilynik is taken into account. No one's insisting on confirmation? So it's counted. Yes, then 46 amendments, Sweden, please, and Prokopchuka. Pencil, microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to report that the first committee that allegedly announced all those changes that could not be physically recalculated was falsified, so these amendments were not considered. Thus, once again, only a majority of the members of the committee, including me as a member of the committee, took responsibility for proclaiming the Code, which is considered to be the Constitution. This proves once again that trials are being made, as was the case with Julia Timoshenko, with Yuri Lucenk. Now you want to take this Criminal Procedure Code through your knee. But he'll be like a tax collector. Because it actually has nothing to do with what the opposition is, and really what should really be taken into account, including taking into account international experience, there is no. So I'm asking for all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u180	Thank you, Yuri Volodymyrovich. I didn't stop you, but I'm warning you again, let's talk about the amendments. That's the first one. The other one. It doesn't matter. It's bad that the committee, if you say so, worked like this. But anyway, we're every correction with you -- whether it's counted or not -- now we're looking at the Supreme Council. It doesn't matter what decision the committee made, we're making a decision with you right now. And the last. Just now we're correcting a man who, I hope, joins the opposition, we've just supported the amendment made by the opposition. [[And I'm looking at Sweden.]] So you don't have to twist it. And once again, let's forget the committee. We're making decisions now together on every amendment Yes, please put to the vote Amendment 46, which is counted but insists on confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:47:27]] For-42 Not supported. Yeah, 47, Carmazin. Partially counted. To confirm, please, 47 votes for confirmation. [[12:47:52]] For 20 For 18 years. Not supported. 48 is rejected. Don't insist on Carmazin. 49, Carmazin, accounted for. For confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:48:18]] For the 17th. The offer is not supported. 50th, Moses. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u181	The committee turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u182	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, you are absolutely right that sovereignty has a session hall over the committee. But if the committee were conducted in a human way, Adam Ivanovich, we would have passed a much faster law today. But they hid with him, snuck in, but that's another question. That's what's going on. The point is that the State's charge is a procedural activity. That is what the Constitution defines as supporting the State’s charge. And I would like this to be brought into conformity with the Constitution, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u183	50 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:49:21]] For-25 Not supported. Carmazine doesn't insist. Kiwalov, 52nd. Don't insist. Snack, 53rd. Counted. 53's on the line. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:49:49]] For-19 The offer is not supported. Savechenko, 54th, accounted for. For confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:50:12]] For the 15th. Not supported. 55th Shemchuck, right, no, she's exactly like that. So we think 54th and 55th are not supported. Right? Because they're identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u184	Yeah, yeah. They're identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u185	Snack, counted, 56th. Please, 56 is on confirmation. [[12:50:46]] For the 17th. Not supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u186	She's identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u187	And, dear fellows, 57th of Saucenka is identical. And Sweden's 58th. Oh, a little different. Declined. Please, Sweden, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this amendment. It will even unify the concepts and definitions that are included in the Criminal Procedure Code. I'm asking you to pay attention to the 72 revisions that are counted. It determines what a pretrial investigation is. And the 58 right that we're talking about right now, it defines, or definition, what knowledge is, is a form of pre-trial investigation of criminal offences. Because the subject of the legislative initiative introduced a new concept of criminal misconduct into this Criminal Procedure Code. Although it is a norm of material law and it will have to bring about first changes to the Criminal Code so that we can imagine what a criminal offense is. Today, no Ukrainian lawyer understands what that means. So I put my view of criminal misconduct as a form of investigation itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u189	Thank you. 58th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. It's rejected. [[12:52:27]] For-43 I didn't get the necessary amount. 59th, Mischenka. Don't insist. 60th, Omelchenko. Don't insist. 61st, Kiwalov. Don't insist. Moses, 62nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u190	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is the part about the stages of criminal conduct. Thus, Ukraine’s traditional criminal delinquency phase, preceded by a criminal investigation, is eliminated. Then I'll give you a statistic. In a year, 4,000 crime claims are coming to the IMF. So it's up to a thousand of them. Because everyone else is being checked and not being confirmed. Here, too, the investigator will have to investigate the crime immediately. I'll take Russia as the country of the former Soviet Union where we were. There a statement of crime is examined and the case is violated or refused. I'll take Germany, which is in the European Union, which we want. They check out allegations of crime, break cases, or refuse to do so. And such decrees are being accused by the people. So I'm asking you to bring it into line.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u191	62 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:54:01]] For-48 Not supported. 63rd doesn't insist. 64th, Jacinyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u192	Honorable Members of Parliament! This code introduces a novel called "trial investigation" instead of a criminal case. Here is one very important thing: that the trial begins at the time of reporting criminal offences to a single register of pretrial investigations. And so it clears the code of law and the institution that defined what begins with a decree being passed as an act. I'm explaining the difference. If today a criminal case can be prosecuted and thus stopped because it is an act, a new code of introduction into a single register is not an act. As soon as it is entered into the register, the procedure for pretrial investigation is immediately initiated. There's nothing you can do about it. You don't have a document, you don't have an act that you can go to court with and stop an illegal trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u193	But I think it's necessary for someone to make a decision in order to register. Can't anyone come in and put in a register. Right? Is there a decision to be made? Please, Yacenouk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u194	In Europe a similar stage has long been gone, and it has not existed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u195	That's the point, Adam Ivanovich, that if there was an act, namely a decision to initiate a pretrial investigation, and on the basis of that act, information is being sent to the register, I wouldn't have made that right. Ask Mr. Olivenic whether a decision is taken or not? No, it's not. The following one brings it in himself.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u196	In European countries, and we are moving there, a similar stage is long gone. But any procedural action aimed at limiting the constitutional rights of citizens is necessarily subject to judicial control. And that's why you're always going to have a case like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u197	You can sue a record, can't you? Right. 64th vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:56:39]] For-42 Not supported, although there are certain ones. There will be a chance, Vladimir Romanovich. Unfortunately, we won't change anything. Omelchenko, 65th. Don't insist. 66th, Gritzak. Counted. To confirm, 66th. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:57:11]] For -8 Not supported. Savechenko, 67th. 67th's on confirmation. [[12:57:33]] For -8 Not supported. Sass, 68th. Don't insist. Bondick, 69th, accounted for. To confirm 69th. [[12:58:00]] For -8 Not confirmed. Tracker, '70s. Confirmed, please. It's essentially similar, so let's not waste time. 71st, Platonic, similar. Sweden, 72nd, is the same. There's no insistence. 73rd, 74th. 75th, Odarchenko. Please. 75th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u198	What do the authors of the codex offer us? They suggest that criminal responsibility be established not only by the Criminal Code but also by other laws. Colleagues, the whole world wants to codify legislation, and we do the opposite. A list of all crimes must be listed in a single act that each individual can acquire, read, and learn what is not to be done and what is to be done. Individual criminal liability laws are a disgrace, a step backwards. If we even introduce these criminal offenses, what are basically crimes of minor gravity that prevent us from including them in the Criminal Code? Complete the Criminal Code with a new chapter and do not destroy the rule of law. I ask you to vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u199	75 Amendment to the Odarchenka vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:59:44]] For-43 Not supported. Yeah, 76-a, Sas. Don't insist. Now, let's see, dear colleagues, an extra table. 4th Amendment, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u200	Adam Ivanovich, there's a proposal to correct this coalition by saying that the first words of the word "legislative act presupposes criminal offences" are replaced by the words "the law of Ukraine on criminal offences."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u201	So Amendment 4 in the supplementary table, Sweden and Oilynik, is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u202	Count it, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u203	No one's insisting on confirmation? All we think is that 4 amendments to the extra table are unchanged. 77th, Mischenka. Don't insist. Denkovich, 78th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u204	Dear colleagues! Paragraph 7 of Part One of Article 3 proposes to be drafted as follows: "The Ukrainian Criminal Responsibility Act is a legal act based on the Constitution of Ukraine and international law, which establishes criminal acts, punishments, criminal consequences and aims to prevent violations." And therefore, given the absence of a draft law that would determine responsibility for criminal offences, the proposed standard is inappropriate. In addition, the Constitution of Ukraine only applies the concept of "crime". Moreover, the implementation of this idea also requires a review and revision of existing principles for the construction of Ukraine’s KPC. And that's why I'm asking you all to support my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u205	Thank you. A similar 79th amendment, Prokopchuka. I'll give you my word. But I'm paying attention now to the committee that we're talking about, and to all the next committees. Dear colleagues, when preparing a comparative table, save time and resources. And please make similar adjustments, they're next to each other, list the names. Ten national deputies made such an amendment, write the amendment, and write 10 names. Because we're with you, unfortunately, well, we're going a little bit wrong in that way that we write every single correction on the same subject. Dig in, please. Because it's a similar amendment, and we're going to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u206	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. It's just saying that it was actually an inappropriate way of looking at all the amendments, and you're admitting it now. So, of course, when a correction is made on the body itself, it makes perfect sense. Because if there is no separate law and no one knows what a criminal offence is, it is therefore necessary not to codify the Criminal Code itself, to work directly on it -- and only then to make similar innovations, have been introduced into the Criminal Procedure Code. And that will, well, lead to another tax code, where the mass of amendments, changes, and so on. They're going to say that we've accepted a fundamental document as a Constitution, and we've actually taken in inexplicably what. So I'd like you to count it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u207	78 and 79 amendments are made to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:03:24]] For-52 Not supported. Moses, 80, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u208	The committee recommended a rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u209	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, two of these. You asked the reporter if there should be a record of the charges. So I realized that the reporter had lost his mind. Then let him confirm the words. And the second. The division of crimes into criminal offences and criminal offences is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Dozens of articles of the Constitution use the term "crime," not "crime." And the next. There is no law, as colleagues have pointed out, about criminal misconduct. And the project that's been introduced is for the criminal offenses of a part of a crime that isn't a crime. It's absurd in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u210	Well, that's what those who like to teach us learn. Did I get that right? 80 amendments to the vote, please specify. You can't pin the answer to that. [[13:04:47]] For-35 Not supported. 81 amendment for confirmation. Gordijenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u211	Dear colleagues, I would like to take a very careful look at the issue of law enforcement agencies and law enforcement investigators in the Armed Forces. I think what you'll see is that the services are in over 147 countries of the world, and we have to figure out whether there will be law enforcement in the Armed Forces or not? In our view, there are a number of State documents that consistently stand up for this position, and if we do not take into account the amendments to the investigation teams in the Armed Forces, this will result in a decrease in the rule of law, inefficiencies in crime prevention, a balance in the law enforcement system, and an increase in crime. So this is a very important element, and I would ask that we take this very carefully and support what is involved in this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u212	81 Amendments apply to confirmation. Please vote. [[13:06:19]] For-30 Not supported. 82nd. Sweden, please. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u213	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I wanted to add two words about a single register. Imagine what will happen now. If, according to the current Criminal Procedure Code, an application for a crime or an offence that is filed must be considered by the investigator or the prosecutor within ten days and thereafter a criminal case must be committed or dismissed in a criminal case, the information shall be entered into a single register and may be considered for a maximum period of 12 months. It's about the only register. As far as I'm concerned. Dear colleagues, I propose instead of defining an authority that conducts a pre-trial investigation, which is called an organ that controls compliance with tax legislation, I propose that I replace it with an authority that adheres to tax legislation. an organ that prevents criminal offences, exposes them and investigates them."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u214	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, "in the field of taxation." So I'm more specific about the name of this organ. Because of the name that was first adopted, it is not clear which organ will be spoken of at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u216	Thank you. 82 amendments, Sweden, included. I'm betting on her confirmation. [[13:08:14]] For-26 Not confirmed. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, as far as I know, we're expanding the rights of those who have to engage in operational and search activities. And here, where we count, who has to do it, we don't write everybody down here, those to whom we give the right to do it. Will it then break the codex? Because in other articles we give this right to customs, to border guards and so on and so forth. And he's not here. So there's a right, and there's no right. Let's keep working on this problem, let's think about it. Yeah, 83rd, Sas. Don't insist. 84th, Carmazin. Don't insist. Kuzmuk, 85th. To confirm, please vote. [[13:09:27]] For-12. Not confirmed. 86 revisions counted. But Reverend Vladimir Mikolaiovich,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u217	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u218	86 amendments are included, no one insists on its confirmation, but I am the very name of the State Anti-Corruption Bureau of Investigation of Ukraine. We don't have an organ like that yet, and we don't know what it's going to be called. I mean, maybe also figuratively, sorry about Russianism, as we speak elsewhere, not the name, but just the body that will be involved in anti-corruption investigation. Bo If we write down the organ's name here, it's not in life. So, colleagues, let's now vote for 86 amendments to not "the body of the Ukrainian State Anti-Corruption Bureau" but to the body that will be conducting anti-corruption investigations, or in an editorial. So you understand what this is about? It's not just a name that doesn't exist yet, it's just the essence of it. Dig in, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u219	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Obviously, one word here is "anti-corruption." And there's going to be an organ of the State Bureau of Investigation. This is what investigators are to be united in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u220	It's for the future, but it's gone, Yuri Volodymyrovich, it's not in life yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u221	It means not only anticorruption, but all the investigations that this office has, which it has been talking about for a long time. And that would make sense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u222	He doesn't have it yet, unfortunately, and maybe he's lucky. Beams, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u223	Adam Ivanovich! It's suggested that it's very simple to write: "the central authority of the executive authority in the fight against corruption." All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u224	Will he be the central authority of the executive branch? It may not be a central organ. Please, Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u225	Dear colleagues! It can't be an executive body, it's absolutely wrong, it has to be an independent state body that will fight corruption in Ukraine, and what it's called should determine the law. But I would like to come back, Adam Ivanovich. You're right about now to notice that we're writing down the names of government institutions that don't exist at all. But in a similar way, we wrote in the code the notion of criminal misconduct. It doesn't exist in the Constitution or the Criminal Code at all, and we write, you know? What kind of transgressions are we talking about? What is it? How can such a law be adopted? Adam Ivanovich, let us return to this subject. And I urge you to return to the only register. This is going to be chaos in the country, I repeat: chaos!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u226	This amendment is included. And if there's an offer for confirmation, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u227	Dear colleagues, let's think again. "Organ of the State Anti-Corruption Bureau of Investigation of Ukraine." It's gonna be a waste. Or, if we think there's going to be a government anti-corruption office, we don't have an organ, because the government office. So there's going to be a government anti-corruption office, and there's going to be organs in this office? Come on, dear fellows, we are. This amendment is taken into account, and we'll think again when we're done, we'll look again. I mean, the idea was that the body that's going to be doing anti-corruption investigations, not the name of that organ, because it's not in life. Right? We'll go back to him. Yeah, lawyers will look. 87th. Declined. Don't insist on Mishchenko. Grizzenko, 88th. Edited. 88's on the stand. [[13:14:07]] For-7. 89th. Snack. Edited. For confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:28]] For-0 Dear colleagues, yes, for discharge. Look, 88th, Grizzenko, opposition, 89th, Gretzak, most. It's about the fact that, he said, they're just rejecting the opposition. Now, Grizzenko won seven votes, and Gretzak won zero votes. The '90s, Savechenko. For confirmation. Please vote for the 90th amendment. [[13:15:05]] For the four of us. Not confirmed. 91st. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u228	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Sass, "BUT" Fatherland. With regard to paragraph 9, I propose that it be excluded because the head of the Public Prosecutor's Office is an administrative office, not a procedural status of a person. Doesn't anybody understand that? There is a law on the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office that defines the rights and duties of prosecutors. And one more thing. Adam Ivanovich, how will you react if I call you "his deputy"? It says here: "their intercessors." We don't have a "his deputy" -- we have a special prosecutor's deputy. And that's why we have to end these things. If that's not taken into account, then I'm going to have to call you "his intercessor" and everyone else. Although the Constitution is clear, we must move away from this tradition. What kind of position is "his deputy"? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u229	You're right. But we'll see how the hall reacts. 91 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:16:26]] For-34 Not supported. 92nd, Omelchenko. Don't insist. Kiwalov, 93rd. Don't insist. 94th. Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u230	Dear Adam Ivanovich! My amendment is designed to define clearly in legislation the concept of "young person" and "young person". I think that the path that the drafters have chosen is not right enough. And that's why I would suggest that I satisfy my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u231	It's going to be a little further down there, isn't it? Amendment 94 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:17:27]] For-35 Not supported. And now the 95th amendment. 95th is right here where it's rejected that a "young person" should be added to the words "young person," as well as "young person."".. Declined. Filipenko, Pisarenko, 95th. Please, Philippe.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I insist on voting on this amendment. We define the notion of minors and minors. I'm asking you to support this amendment so we don't have any differences in interpretation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u233	95th vote. Please vote. [[13:18:21]] For 270. Supported. Carmazine, 96th and 97th. Moses, 98th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u234	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Adam Ivanovich, we voted on the amendment, paragraph 7, where the Ukrainian legislative acts establishing criminal responsibility are recorded in the Code of Criminal Offences. Well, we also have the Ukrainian Criminal Code. So this is the 13th paragraph, not "criminal responsibility legislation," but "two acts," if we've already defined them: the Ukrainian Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u235	98 amendments to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:19:21]] For-33 Not supported. 99th, Bondik. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u236	It's the same, it's identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u237	Same thing. Yes, dear colleagues, now we're looking at the 5th amendment, the Sweden-Olinik, the extra table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, it is suggested that paragraph 14 should be supplemented by the following: "Attraction to criminal responsibility, the stage of criminal conduct, which begins at the moment of a person's report of a suspect in a criminal offence." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u239	She's supported by a committee. No one's insisting on confirmation? No, it's not. So the 5 amendment of the extra table is supported. 100th - Prutnik. Declined. Don't insist. The fences are 101st. Don't insist. 102nd is Moses. Counted. For confirmation. 102th, please identify yourself for confirmation. Take down the vote. Please, Moses' word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u240	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, the chairman of the committee, Victor Dmitrovitch, emphasized this. You've questioned what it means to register crimes, offences, or any decision to put them there, and in fact, the word "registration of offences" means that the offence must be recognized by someone to put them in this register. And then it's supposed to be a criminal case, a violation. And let the reporter answer what you asked him, because this is the place right now. Is there a charge against any action to be taken against the criminal record? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u241	He's not. But when the constitutional rights of other citizens begin to be violated, when a person becomes suspicious, procedural, then the stage of the complaint begins.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u242	102 Amendment, Moses, accounted for. It's on confirmation. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:21:42]] For-23 Not supported. 103 amendment, Malešev-Olinik, rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u243	Please be supportive. It's rejected by the committee, but I'm asking you to put it in support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u244	103 amendment, Malisheva-Oliynika. The committee didn't count, turned it down. The amendment insists on support. I'll put it to a vote, please. Please vote. [[13:22:22]] For 242
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u245	This is exactly how the committee went and the amendments, including the amendments, were rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u246	Sass, 104th. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u247	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." I'd like to address the "first intercessor" who stands on the stand. Dear reporter, are we ever going to end this tradition that has found its place in this bill?Oh, my God! Let's move away from his deputy standard. Well, there's no such thing as anywhere! Let's call positions what they should be called. If he's a deputy, he's a deputy prosecutor. If the others are the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, this is the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, not his deputy! Why didn't you count the obvious stuff?Oh, my God! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u248	It's the lawyers' business.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u249	The committee expressed its position, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u250	Let the lawyers continue to argue. Although I support Sergei Volodymyrovich, he is right, in my opinion, for the accuracy of the legal formulations. 104 amendments shall be made to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:23:52]] For-29 Not supported. 105th doesn't count. Don't insist. 106th, Carmazin, accounted for. Confirmed. [[13:24:18]] For the 10th. Not confirmed. 107th Amendment, Carmagina, accounted for. To be confirmed, I'm putting the vote to the vote for confirmation. [[13:24:47]] For the Not supported. 108th, Moses, accounted for. Please, Moses microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u251	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, well, I can see that this trouble is turning into a mockery, but I still have patience and will act. It's about not being able to determine the minimum wage in the Criminal Procedure Code, the size of the fines, because that's not the subject of the Criminal Procedure Code. And in this article, and in all the following. This is not the case anywhere in the world. And you will listen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u252	Yes, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u253	The committee asked for it, recommended that it be taken into account. For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u254	108 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[13:25:51]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment 109 counted. Is there a warning to her? Now, one minute. Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u255	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, its essence is to rule out section 15, paragraph 1, of the first article. But it all has to be solved in some way. That is to say, it is necessary to resolve the issue of minimum wage to certain procedural decisions. This does not mean that there is no such problem. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 109 amendments to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u257	And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u258	Take down the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u259	There's a 110-y offer, they're identical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u260	So if we don't confirm 109, then the next one is taken. Do you understand? It's up to the vote to Amendment 109 to confirm it. [[13:27:10]] For -8 Correction not supported. Dear colleagues, 110 of the same amendment, is also not taken into account because there was no support in the session hall, 109 and 110 amendments. 111th, Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u261	Thank you. Deputy Sas, "BUT is the Fatherland." In view of what remains in the city of paragraph 15, I would therefore like to support the amendment that I have made, which is to say, instead of the words "set by law on 1 January of the calendar year in which" to replace with the words "set by law on a date on which the minimum wage can change several times over the year" and so this needs to be taken into account, because it is the indirect protection of our fellow citizens. I'm asking you to support this amendment most of the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u262	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u263	The committee’s position was to reject paragraph 15, but now new circumstances, you are asking questions of support. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u264	Amendment 111 shall be put to the vote. The committee turned it down. Puts the vote to support. 111 revisions. [[13:28:49]] For-34 Correction not supported. 112th. The author insists on not correcting it? Hara. No, it's not. 113 amendment, Victor Schwetz. Microphone, please. Yuri Prokopchuk will be there, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u265	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." I'll go back to what colleague Volodymyr Romanovich Moysik said. I don't know where it is, when regulation of minimum wage and so on goes through the Criminal Procedure Code, it's nonsense. And at least how it will soften this system, the proposed edition, the minimum wage, that is, the untaxed minimum income of citizens, the amount set by law on 1 January of the calendar year, that is, a separate law, then some logic. In everything else we're about to move to criminal regulation, I'm sorry, I don't know, a kindergarten, that's all. We don't do, I'm sorry, a concentration camp from Ukraine. Stop, we already have political prisoners and so on. So be wise, and do not be foolish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u266	There is a vote of 113 amendments. [[13:30:14]] For-37 Correction not supported. Amendment of Anatolia Griesenka, 114. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. 115 revisions included. Is there a denial? Sass, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u267	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." I'm asking you to place this amendment for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u268	Okay. Dear colleagues, Amendment 115 is included. We need to put her to a vote to confirm the session hall. There is a 115 amendment. Please vote. [[13:31:04]] For 261 The amendment is confirmed. Amendment 116, Mishchenko. Please, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u269	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Now that you've been gone, we've discussed the inclusion in the Criminal Procedure Code of the name of this body that will be conducting anti-corruption investigations in Ukraine. But we had a heated discussion here, and we concluded that such an organ does not yet exist. So now that such a law has not yet been passed, and the name of this body would be inappropriate to write in the Criminal Procedure Code, the very name of this law. So I'm asking you to make an editorial agreement with that amendment that we've already voted on a little bit earlier so that it's not the name of an organ that doesn't exist yet. In the process of drafting legislation, the name of this law will be defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u270	Victor Victorovich and his distinguished colleagues, since Vladimir Mikhajlovich was absent at the time, I would like to stress once again that we have come to the conclusion with you that where the name of this body is, we will replace it in other words, which will answer the essence of this organ, not the very name, because when we create it, we will call it what we call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u271	Respectable colleagues, I take it? 116. Is the mishenko insisting on her? For confirmation? I'm betting on the 116th amendment. [[13:32:52]] For 1 Correction not counted. Yeah, 117's rejected, they don't insist. 118th. Vladimir Stretovich, are you insisting on her? It's partially accounted for. I'm through. That's what I'm telling you. Please, Vladimir Stretovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u272	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, in my opinion, this amendment does not in any way spoil the text of the law, but in the context that Ukraine is increasingly finding itself in scandals of a corrupt nature, it is proposed to introduce a rule that the investigating judge at the local level is appointed accordingly by the courts for one year at a time. In my opinion, this would exclude the possibility of an investigative judge to be a representative of the judicial system with the authorities of the prosecution who have very high powers. Today, it is written down that a judge is appointed as a member of this court, but there is no term for his appointment. So I propose that one year be set aside and that it be decided by the congregations of judges as the most authoritative judge of their composition in turn. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u273	That's exactly what you've got, and it's not here by the time it's done, it's not here. It's just a matter of order, we suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u274	The language goes that the investigating judge in the court of first instance is determined by the judges of this court in order of order of order. This will be the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u275	Yeah, we're running it your way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u276	Amendment 118 shall be put to the vote. [[13:34:37]] For the 15th. Correction not supported. 119, it's taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u277	The committee was counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u278	Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u279	If the vote is not confirmed, then I'll take my vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u280	No, that's where the voice sounded. That's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u281	I think it's the right thing to do. The committee has given the right support, please, dear colleagues. Motivation is. Look, "investigative judges" is a completely new concept that is being introduced into the criminal trial in Ukraine, and that's the person who's going to be the first to stand up for it. must stand for the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens who are drawn to criminal responsibility. In view of this, it is vital that this investigating judge does not become another prosecutor, but a court judge. In order for this to not happen, I think that's the formula that we put in the first one. When voting in the first reading, it's not quite right, because you can choose from the judges, you know. They called from the administration, they said, pick one, and there everyone raised their hand, and they chose. And my suggestion is that every judge who works in this court is appointed to be an investigating judge for just one year, and so we avoid.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u282	I see. Please, the committee has taken this amendment into account, but given the circumstances of the insistence, I'm voting on the proposal to confirm Amendment 119. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:36:23]] For-21 Correction not counted. Amendment 120. Is the author insisting on it? It's rejected. No, it's not. 121th, Mishchenka. No, it's not. Shishkina Alina, 122nd. Are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Volodymyr Moysik, the accounted for. Volodymyr Romanovich, please argue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u283	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this. We've just completed the amendments to the crime register. Any statement is registered in this register, and a person becomes a criminal. 90 percent of the U.S.S. investigators now have an internship of up to 3 years. This is because an application for a crime is not tested, and it is passed on to him. I propose that the investigating judge be necessarily a judge who has been elected on an untimely basis. At least he has experience in law enforcement. And I want to confirm the words of Sweden's Viktor Dmitrovich. If this judge is a regular and appointed judge, not a regular one, he will become a prosecutor within two weeks, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It will be his daily prosecutorial and investigative work, not his judicial work. This is a danger to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u284	The committee took this amendment into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u285	Dear colleagues, in view of the need for confirmation of this amendment, I would ask them to listen to what Vladimir Moses said. Amendment 123 shall be put to the vote for approval. [[13:38:12]] For-49 Correction not supported. Amendment 124 rejected, does not insist. Correction 125, Gritzak. No, it's not. Vladimir Moisik, 126. Are you insisting? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u286	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! What we're talking about is that the prosecution's criminal side is referred to as "except the investigator. I'm the head of the task force." Instead, for example, if there is a prosecutor, we do not write: Senior Prosecutor, Deputy Prosecutor, Chief Prosecutor. Because he is himself a procedural figure. So the head of the investigation department can't be referred to as the prosecution's side. If he's investigating, he's an investigator. And in the Transitional Positions of our project, which we are considering, is the criminal responsibility of the prosecutor for failing to comply with the prosecutor's orders. Instead, there is no criminal responsibility for failing to comply with such instructions by the prosecutor as the director of the investigation unit. That's ridiculous. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u287	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u288	The committee did not support and reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u289	The vote shall be adopted by 126 amendments. [[13:39:40]] For-34 No correction supported. 127 amendment, Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u290	Thank you, Sergey Sass. By my amendment, I propose in paragraph 18 after the combination of the word "accused" with the word "teachers" delete. The prosecution’s attitude to the defendant’s side is nonsense. The following one sets out the truth in the matter and only from a certain point of view does he become a party to the accusation, I would like them to understand. But on the other hand, I realize that it's completely embedded in the concept of the law. It's not the Criminal Procedure Code, it's the Repressive Procedural Code, and that's why, of course, it's brought the investigator to this part. Therefore, if we continue to do so, we will still appear after innocently convicted Timoshenko, Lucenko, a number of others, if the investigator is aware of the prosecution’s side rather than establishing the truth. Thank you. Please support this proposal, it'll be a lactus paper.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u291	The committee did not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u292	The vote shall be amended by 127. [[13:41:13]] For-45 Correction not supported. Next amendment. Savechenko insists on her? No, it's not. Victor Schwetz, 129th, do you insist? No, it's not. Schemchuk Victor. No, it's not. 130th. 131st, Carmazin. He made a statement. Moses, your amendment has been taken into account. No pretenses? Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u293	Vladimir Moses. Party "For Ukraine!".. So where is it taken into account when everyone votes the other way around, don't you see? This is about 132 amendments. The original text states that the court has the right to pass judgment or approval. So I'm deciphering it in accordance with the Constitution. In the Constitution, court decisions are passed, but since they are among the decisions and resolutions, so let's not write "approving." The verdict is passed, and the resolution is given, and so is the practice of the CPC. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u294	The committee took this amendment into account, it makes sense. I'm betting on a vote of 132 amendments to confirm it. [[13:42:43]] For-32 The correction's off. Amendment 133 is included. Does she have a note?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u295	That's exactly what you're doing, and it's the only place they've prescribed it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u296	Sergei Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u297	Thank you. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." It's a shame that they didn't listen to the right comments of Vladimir Romanovich, but this amendment is somehow being addressed. So I'd like to ask you to confirm this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u298	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 133 amendments have been taken into account, and it is necessary to require a national MP to confirm. I'm betting on a vote of 133. Please vote. [[13:43:47]] For 274 Confirmed the amendment. Please don't relax. Amendment 134, Kiwalova. Counted. Are you insisting on her? For confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u300	Confirm 134 revisions. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:44:16]] For-0 The amendment is not counted. 135 Amendment, Mishchenka. I'll bet on the vote to confirm the amendment. 134 doesn't count. [[13:44:38]] For the Correction not counted. Zero votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u301	Zero. We voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u302	136 revisions included. I'll bet on the vote to confirm the amendment. [[13:45:09]] For-9 Correction not supported. 137th. Don't insist. 138th counted editorially. Vladimir Romanovich, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u303	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Vladimir Mikhailovich, what is this about? That's to paragraph 22, I mean more. In the first reading, the jury was taken to the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u304	No, no. This is about your 138th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u305	No, no, I wanted to go back to the last one, because they also wrote absurd. The jury was taken to the judges in the first reading. Mishchenko asked me to replace "saint" with "saint." The committee replaced it with its majority. But no "conspiracy" or "national jury" is a judge, not a judge. They are part of the court, and in some cases they enjoy the privileges of a judge. They are not judges, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u306	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please, for this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u307	Are we looking at 138?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u308	We're 138. But Volodymyr Romanović speaks of previous amendments, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u309	I urge Vladimir Romanovich to persuade the deputies because the committee has expressed its position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u310	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u311	Yes, we voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u312	138th. It's considered editorially. Puts to the vote to confirm the amendment. [[13:46:44]] For -14 Correction not counted. Amendment 139 counted. Is there no objection? Let's move on. Amendment 140 counted. I'm betting on the vote to confirm 140 amendments, by Kiwalov Sergey. [[13:47:15]] For 1 No correction supported. Amendment 141, it's accounted for. Victor Schwetz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u313	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, she's similar to 139th.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u314	Dear colleagues, it's not exactly the same, because Kiwalov's is a little bit different.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u315	But no, not in Kiwalov, in Pisarenko: in paragraph 23, replace the word "previous" with the word "preparation." It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u316	So I was going to say, it's counted. That's why I'm Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtev, so he doesn't raise his hand right now, or he's already getting his hand up. Mikhail Vasilovich, this was already counted, and you voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u317	We don't have to vote anymore because it's counted, so let's move on. 142nd, Gritzak. It's partially accounted for. I'm voting on the approval of Amendment 142. [[13:48:21]] For two. Correction not counted. Amendment 153. I'll bet you a vote of approval. And we continue the morning session for 15 minutes. [[13:48:42]] For-0 The amendment is not counted. Correction of the 144th, Volodymyr Moses. Edited. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u318	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, as a reporter, look. In paragraph 18, where it's about creating criminal conduct, we're writing that the suspect, the victim, has a protector. The 24th says, "The witness and his lawyer." So I say, write the same word: "protector."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u319	I'm betting on the vote to confirm 144 amendments. [[13:49:37]] For-22. Correction not supported. Amendment 145 counted. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u320	None. 146th, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u321	..vote it. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we need to confirm, well, this is important.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u322	Come on, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u323	Vote, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u324	Yeah. At the request of the National MP, I'm voting on Amendment 145 to confirm it. Please vote. [[13:50:16]] For 221 The amendment is not confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u325	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u326	Are you working or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u327	Valentina Grigorovich, call.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u328	I'm betting on the vote to return to Amendment 145. They say the button didn't work. What can I do? [[13:50:42]] For 261 We're back. I'm betting on a vote to confirm Amendment 145. [[13:51:01]] For 260 Correction confirmed. Amendment 146. Sergei Sas, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u329	Thank you. Sergei Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear colleagues, there's a suggestion in paragraph 24 that the word "lawyer" be replaced by the word "protector." Because this position is contrary to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16.11.2000. [[No. 13 RP 2000]] [[the right to choose a defender]] The Constitution states that citizens of Ukraine have the right to choose their protector freely. As far as the amendment is concerned, if it is left behind, the situation will be as follows. We have 23,000 citizens who have the right to legal activity. Now there are over 2 million cases where they should only provide protection on criminal matters. Now, in connection with the adoption of the Codex, there will be several times as many. Therefore, a situation will be created when a closed association of lawyers is formed, services will grow up, and most Ukrainian citizens will not have access to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u330	Amendment 146 shall be put to the vote. [[13:52:35]] For-38 Correction not supported. 147th, Kiwalov. Is he insisting? No, it's not. 148th, Gritzak. No, it's not. Bondick, 149th. No, it's not. Poutnik, 150th. No, it's not. Fireman, 151st. Savechenko, 152nd. Grizzard, 153rd. Sass, 154th. Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u331	What do you mean, "no"?Oh,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u332	Microphone, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u333	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! We almost missed it. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." There's a suggestion that paragraph 25 should be deleted. There is no point in identifying individuals and individuals involved in criminal proceedings. Well, that's the element of common sense. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u334	The committee disagreed and refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u335	The vote shall be adopted by 154 amendments. [[13:53:42]] For-27 Not supported. Yes, Savechenko refuses. Kiwalov, too. Omelchenko, 157. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed to determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u336	We offer support, support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u337	No, there's no decision here. Should we consider the correction then? It's about taking care of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u338	It's about taking care of things.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u339	The proposal to consider amendment 157 shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:24]] For 20 The decision is not taken. Fixing Gryzak, 158th. Similarly, the Supreme Council needs to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u340	Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u341	I would like to vote in favour of 158 amendments. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:48]] For the four of us. No correction supported. 159 amendment, Mishchenko. The committee proposes to determine how to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u342	Count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u343	I'm voting on the proposal to consider Amendment 159. [[13:55:15.]] For-35 The amendment is not counted. Amendment 160. Yuri Prokopchuk, microphone. The committee's proposal is similar. Please, your argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u344	In fact, this amendment takes into account the international experience, as all the definitions that apply to international legal aid, the other definitions that are set out here. So I'm surprised she's not listed right away. In fact, it needs to be taken into account because it explains the very essence of what legal aid is. And it lists everyone there who's authorized, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u345	Ladies and gentlemen, I vote in favour of Amendment 160, author Yuri Prokopchuk. Please be sure. [[13:56:16]] For-36 Correction not supported. Amendment 161. Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u346	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland." Well, the obvious intentions of today's majority are to vote on the Criminal Procedure Code that was written, edited by the President's Administration. Accordingly, all the amendments that are being made, which are the right ones, which have been supported, including on the committee that is artificially voting and attesting, are only necessary in order to, sorry, tap into the cables of international European experts, who have been assured that these amendments will be supported. This amendment, which is now underway, refers to a temporary arrest. But, of course, when today's political repression against the leaders of the opposition and Julia Timoshenko, and Yuri Lucenko, when it comes to manufacturing, continue to fabricate the Criminal Procedure Code. One day he will judge you, arrest you, and hold you in custody.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u347	Dear colleagues, the committee has not taken a decision on 161 amendments. I'm voting on the proposal to support Amendment 161. [[13:57:43]] For-42 Correction not supported. Similarly, we need to determine about amendment 162. The committee didn't make a decision. I'm voting on Amendment 162. [[13:58:07]] For-29 Correction not accepted. Just a minute. It's 163th. About what amendment, Vladimir Moisik? Because this is Sergei Sassa's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u348	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Here is the amendment of Mishchenka and Sasa. Vladimir Mikhailovich, we have completed article 3: "The terms used in this code, if there are no special instructions, have that meaning," and we have passed all the terms. It was then that Sas and Mishchenko suggested that part two of the article should be excluded from the language that other terms used in the Code could be defined by other laws. So look, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, today there is no definition of "substance," which is "prosecution," which is "attraction to criminal responsibility." That's a certain category of people who today, for example, are protected by immunity, are losing that immunity, and we're allowing it not to be transferred to a code, but to, say, a manual for the Office of the President. That's absurd.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u349	The point is that, dear colleagues, we voted on amendment 162, 29 people supported it. 163 is the same, so there's no need to vote. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u351	Well, because they didn't. Now we have to vote for the article. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? I put to the vote 3 articles, taking into account the discussions and the votes that took place, 3 articles. Please vote. [[14:00:02]] For 260 Article accepted. Next. Is the snack insisting on its amendment? No, it's not. Carmazine, no. Sass, 166 revisions. Are you insisting? Please, the microphone. Well, please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u352	Oh, come on! Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Well, as you know, something's hiding or someone's hiding in small things. So in the first part of article 4, I would like the words "on the basis of the order provided for in this code" to be replaced by the words "under the rules of this code." I think it's a more precise legal structure. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u353	The committee rejected the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u354	I bet on the vote of amendment 166. [[14:01:01]] For-23 Correction not supported. 167th, Sergey Gordienka. Are you insisting on your amendment? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u355	I insist. I'd like to talk about the next one. My fellow Members, of course, I will no longer insist on these same amendments, because neither the drafters nor the committee support the concept that there should be services in the Armed Forces, the law enforcement units, and to determine their conformity. But again and again, I note that there are more than forty such services in more than one country. And if we don't create it at some point, and it's going to be pretty soon, it's going to have a huge negative effect. So let's make this amendment again. I'm asking you to support it. If there's no support, I'll take the rest of that investigation unit off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u356	Dear colleagues, the offer is clear. I'm betting on the vote of 167. Her committee doesn't support it. [[14:02:20]] For-36 A similar amendment, 168th. It is also taken off because it is not supported by the Supreme Council. 169 revisions included. No objections?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u357	None. For confirmation? Dear colleagues, 169 amendments -- she's listed, she needs to be voted in for confirmation. The vote shall be adopted by 169 amendments. Please vote. [[14:03:05]] For 261 Copy that. The amendment is confirmed. Now we have to vote on article 4. May I have your attention, please? The vote is based on article 4. Please vote. [[14:03:36]] For 252 The article is accepted. Now article 5. 170 revisions. The author does not insist. 171th, Sergei Sass. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u358	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich. Sergey Sass, "BUT is Fatherland." Regarding article 5, the following is proposed: The procedural action is always carried out according to the rules in force at the time of its implementation. I think it's clear that it's an axiom. In doing so, I think it is more logical to associate, not with the beginning of a separate process, but with a separate stage within which a process can always be performed, if there is a need. I think it's right and logical, and so I'm asking you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u359	The author’s opinion was not supported by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u360	171 amendments shall be put to the vote. [[14:04:52]] For-35 Correction rejected. 172 revisions. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council be decided by a vote. Roman Zvaric, your microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u361	Dear colleagues, in fact, this is a fairly principled amendment, because a valid revision, what was suggested in the first reading, allows for the use of the old codex. In particular, this is important for the example. for evidence: what to do with the cases on which the evidence has already been collected and the new Criminal Procedure Code has become effective? So I'm deeply convinced that whatever the rules in the old code were, everything after the code became effective should spread to all cases of criminal conduct. There can be no exceptions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u362	Dear colleagues, the vote is Amendment 172, so that the Supreme Council can take a decision on it. [[14:06:12]] For the 18th. The decision is not taken. 173 revisions included in part. Puts the vote to confirm. I'd like to make a statement. [[14:06:38]] For the four of us. Not supported. 174th counted. Is there no objection? Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u363	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The theater of absurdity continues. Roman Zvaric spoke and said that the investigator could not hold another codex in his hands after it became operational. And for the crimes committed under this code, to be governed by the old codex, which were committed after it, by a new codex. There is no such thing anywhere in the world. So as Kiwalov's amendment was taken into account, the text was correct: "The permissibility of evidence is determined by the provisions of this code." And then Lucenka's appeal, where 55 witnesses, the militias who work at the Ministry didn't come, and their demonstrations announced, they can't be evidence by signing this code. As was the case with Julia Timoshenko, where the permissibility of evidence was grossly violated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u364	Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Amendment 174 to confirm it. [[14:08:00]] For-30 Correction not counted. Dear colleagues, we must now vote on the 5th article. Puts to the vote Article 5. Please vote. Taking into account the discussion of this article and the vote. [[2:08:32]] For 261 The article is accepted. The next article is 6. The snack doesn't insist. Sergei Sass. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u365	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please turn off your hands and turn on your head. This amendment applies to our family. It's about replacing in the first part of article 6 the words "in the case envisaged in part two of this article" with the words "in the cases provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the laws of Ukraine." Special features of criminal conduct, as defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine concerning the President of Ukraine, the People's Deputy and the laws of Ukraine on the status of the People's Deputies, the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, 126th on the status of judges. [[Article 111 of the Constitution]] [[Article 80 of the Constitution]] I'd like you to pay attention to the following: that the second part is about diplomatic immunity. Dear colleagues, diplomatic immunity is not just about persecuting a certain person, criminal, including, as well as examining diplomatic transport, office and housing, correspondence, telephone conversations, sightseeing and crime, searching, expropriation, quality interrogation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u366	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u367	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'll save some money, so let me finish. Therefore, it is not legal to refer in this case to diplomatic immunity as an institution that deals exclusively with criminal persecution of a person. Is that not understandable? Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. This applies to every national MP in the first place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u368	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u369	The committee did not support this position and rejected it, suggesting that it be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u370	Dear National Deputies! In the process of adopting the Supreme Council Resolution on Adoption as the basis of the draft Criminal Procedure Code, it was clearly stated that we accept in the first reading, taking into account that the rules that conflict with the articles, particularly the 111th Constitution of Ukraine and the 80th Constitution of Ukraine, are being repealed. For this reason, said Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas. That's why we're here with you at the beginning, and I said, dear colleagues, to consider this issue, that all positions are in line with this decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in the finalization of the text, they're going to be clearly related to this decision, I want to say again. And that's why we can write here: "Criminal conduct takes place with respect to any person except the cases defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine." That's it. So that's what we're counting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u371	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, we have a comparative table in the amendments to the General Legal Authority that we have developed. This is article 486, where the features of the order of criminal responsibility, detention, and the selection of a precaution. And that's where we're completely edited.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u372	But here we agreed yesterday, including when we held a meeting on this subject, that we would bring it all the way in, because they would read one article and the other would read another article. Dear colleagues, no, we agreed, and so let's make this clear here, let's now vote in general that all of these norms will be brought into line with the results of the first reading, so that we have the right law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u373	Yes, we do. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u374	Supported. To bring into line with the rules of the Constitution and the laws in force, which define the special status of a particular group of individuals. I'd like to put this motion to the vote, please. [[14:13:24]] For 289 Offer accepted. 188 articles. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u375	Considered by the committee. 178th, yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u376	Just a minute. Moses, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u377	Vladimir Moses. Party "For Ukraine!".. Thank you to my colleagues for supporting the Chief of the Supreme Council. But we started with article 6: "Act of the Code. And in advance, beyond that decision, there were registers, reports of suspicions and so on. It should also apply to a certain category of persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u378	So I said again that we voted to bring everyone in line. Of course, we're all textual. 178th, please. Victor Sweden
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u379	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I still wanted to remind you of what Vladimir Romanovich Moysik just said. It's about the only register -- it's made automatically, it's a crime statement. And there's no procedural document. And article 80 is about what you're talking about right now. It provides for a procedure to attract criminal responsibility. And there's no concept of "criminal responsibility" in a single register. We've been talking about this a lot. And that's where all the crime reports come in. So I would like us to return to that question. That's the first one. The other one. As far as I'm concerned, I think Vladimir Mikhailovich, this is a direct constitutional rule: not any laws, should be taken into account when a criminal case is being investigated, but only those laws that are binding by the Supreme Council. So this comes directly from the provisions of article 9 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u380	Dear colleagues, the package is considered by the committee. It's on confirmation, 178th. And we're done now. Last one. [[14:15:37]] Dear colleagues! For-24. Correction not supported. I have a request, fellow officers of honor. We've got one minute. Don't run away. We have three amendments left here, and we're going to vote for the first chapter -- and we're going to finish. And what Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz said, I remind you again. When you and I voted to bring it into line with the Constitution, at the same time, we gave an order to bring it all into line accordingly. This is fixed. So it's an amendment. Please, Victor Dmitrovich Schwetz. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u381	Dear colleagues! But in the Constitution, it is not all international agreements at all but those that are committed by the Supreme Council. [[I already referred to article 9]] I don't understand why most parliamentary people didn't vote. This is a direct constitutional norm. If you leave, Vladimir Mikhailovich, from what you have just said, after such a vote, we should definitely go back to this norm and still bring it into line with the Constitution. Well, you can't vote that way: if it's Sweden, then it's "against," if it's a representative of your faction, then it's "against." That's ridiculous! And the last. Vladimir Mikhailovich, look at the voting, isn't that a shame?Oh, my God! Well, it's a criminal procedure code. What respect will humans have for this law? Now they see half the faction of the Party of Regions running and they vote for 10 people. How can you do that?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u382	Victor Dmitrovitch, you're right. Look both to the right and to the left. That's it. Let's make them work, too. I'm in favour of supporting your amendments, but at least 150 votes in favour, 20-30 votes in favour. To whom do we read morals? Please, Roman Zvaric, 180 revisions. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u383	I don't insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-04-10-m0.u384	Puts the vote to 180 amendments for confirmation. [[14:17:55]] For -8 No correction supported. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Puts to the vote article 6 and chapter I. Please vote. [[14:18:23]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to have everyone in the session room at 4:00. And the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00.
