ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:00:05]] There are 236 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Although I can see that there are a little more than 236 cards in the room. Insert the cards. Today marks the birthday, the anniversary, 60 years old, the Bunny Ivan Aleksandrovich. Let us welcome him to the Jubilee. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary session on 4 July. We discussed 32 issues of the agenda yesterday. As a result of their consideration, 20 laws and 2 decrees were passed, 7 bills were adopted on a basis, and 3 bills were rejected. Yeah, we got a Thursday tonight, so we're starting right now. [[B in m in s a l in]] With regard to yesterday's drafts, it's yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's move on to the daily routine. The draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine is pending. [[concerning the guarantee of inviolability for individual officials]] [[Registration number 3251]] Reports the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u2	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting on 21 June this year addressed the issue of the drafting of the Law on Introduction to the Constitution of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3251]] I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court of April 1, 2010, passed a decision on the compatibility of the bill with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, in which it recognized a number of provisions of the draft in such a way that they did not meet the requirements of part one of article 157 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In order to ensure that the requirements of article 159 of the Constitution of Ukraine are met and that the constitutional procedure for the consideration of the bill is completed, the Supreme Council set a deadline for the submission of proposals and amendments to the bill by 7 June of this year. There was no proposal for the draft Law. In view of this, the committee decided to finalize a bill taking into account the Constitutional Court’s conclusion. In particular, the bill removes provisions that are declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court: these are changes to part two of article 80, part one and part two of article 105, to supplement article 105 with a new part, to amend article 108 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is also proposed to take into account in the new edition of part three of article 80 the observations made by the Constitutional Court regarding the use of the term "acquisition". In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council, in accordance with part three of article 151 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, that a bill be sent to the Constitutional Court to obtain the conclusion that it complies with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposing that the Constitutional Court accept its consideration as urgent. The committee introduced an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for registration number 3251/P-1 of 22 June 2012. Dear colleagues, this bill deals with improving the Institute of Immunity of All Senior Officials and, as the people say, eliminating parliamentary immunity. Taking into account the political statements that have been made from the camps in fact by all the political forces represented in Parliament, and we have already sent a bill to the Constitutional Court, I urge you to support the committee's decision that this process should take place in a manner defined by the Constitution and the HS section. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Are there any questions? Yuri Romanovich, wait. Any questions? Sign up. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u4	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Mr. Miroshnichenko! Let's make it easier for the citizens to understand what you're talking about. Answer me: Is the President and the judges still untouchable? That's the first question. And the second question. Under what conditions can the national MP of Ukraine be held accountable in accordance with the changes to the Constitution that you propose to vote on? Clearly, does the President, the judges, the hedgehog judges who put political prisoners in jail remain untouchable? And under what circumstances are MPs called to account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. The text of this bill refers to the elimination of the intrusiveness of all officials when speaking the common language. But when the Constitutional Court adopted the bill and examined it in accordance with two articles 157 and 158, it was separate, particularly with regard to the inviolability of the President of Ukraine and the judges, which it declared unconstitutional. As a result, the Supreme Council has removed these standards from the text and now we have to correct, once again, according to constitutional procedure to the Constitutional Court. As far as the national MPs are concerned, they are. criminal proceedings, investigative actions may be committed against them, but they may be deprived of their will or imprisoned only after the court’s judgment has entered into force. Thus, immunity or intrusiveness are greatly limited and, in fact, with respect to any national MP, everyone can be conducted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u6	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u7	Dear Yuri Romanović, the position of the faction of the Party of the Regions has not changed and we will fulfil our pre-election commitments to withdraw the immunity from the MPs. We are voting in favour of all the bills, and we understand the unpredictability of the past bill from the opposition of the populist who sent it because there was a decision of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of those norms, but we voted that there should be no speculation afterwards. And we hope that our bill, which meets all the provisions of the Constitution, will receive constitutional support in the Constitutional Court and we will put it into effect. The position of the Party of the Regions is inviolable, as the opposition has not tried to raise the issue. Deputies must descend to the ground and walk with their feet on the ground and be the same as their constituents. We support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u8	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u9	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Jury Romanovich, while working in the district, this was a question that the electorate asked me repeatedly, and I kept giving them the answer that we should make changes to the Constitution only in accordance with the norms provided for in the Constitution itself. So we have to send this bill to the Constitutional Court, get an appropriate conclusion and so on. But there's one question that the voters are always asking me, and I'm also giving them that answer, but I'd like to get confirmation from you and point that out again so that the voters can hear it. If the Constitutional Court makes a positive conclusion and we introduce these changes into action, is there still an issue of immunity for the national MPs in part of their statements from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, work in the bodies of the Supreme Council, to protect the interests of their electorate or to defend the position of their party that sent them to Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u10	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich. That is why the content and institution of immunity or immunity, which guarantees freedom of political activity, freedom of expression, freedom of criticism, fatigue and authority, and discharges responsibility from what a person says, has a separate or alternative view, disagrees with certain proposals that are in power. It's completely preserved. And that's exactly what the decision is, and that is the decision of the Constitutional Court that immunity must be preserved in part of freedom of political activity. In a part of the violation of criminal law, of civil law of exceptionality for nationals, it must be substantially reduced and brought into line with what Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov said. People have to be all equal, whether they're MPs or ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u11	Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the bill that we are considering can be much discussed with regard to the standards that are there. But the fact remains. If you look at the chronology of promises, even commitments made by political forces, including in the 2007 term elections. So practically everyone, especially in one part -- it almost didn't come up with the main slogan. The first password was--"The prison bandits!"and the second is "Deliverance of Inviolability!" I think it's time for everyone to vote for it today. Now I'm going to be very interested in the results of today's vote. My colleagues don't have any warnings at all. Why? Because we're not afraid of being touched, as the 45.5 million citizens of Ukraine are touched, and the 450 citizens who are sitting in this room should also be touched. We'll vote for him. And I'd like to make sure that the results are especially shown to bring them to their attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u13	You know, Mr. Oleg, there's actually a lot of speculation around these laws. And you know that the factions of the majority supported the opposition bill, which in its content met the law that we are currently considering. Where it was about undoing the inviolability of all senior officials. And for their part, the factions of the majority have fulfilled their promises, their responsibilities to the electorate. And today we will be able to find out how our opposition colleagues will do it. Although, as we can see, they are not in the hall. And that's unfortunate. Because this question, I think, could unite the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u14	Thank you. Have a seat. Sign up for factions. Please, it's from the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u15	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u16	Mikhail Vasilovich, please wait. There's still a recording coming in. Yeah, we're taking 20 minutes. Please, Chechetov, Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u17	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Respectable representatives of the media! I think we are considering today the fundamental issue, the main fundamental issue on which decisions in Parliament depend, the adoption of relevant bills, the positions of individual deputies, their conduct and so on. And then the people's deputy will live the lives of the people when he walks the earth like a common mortal, like a common citizen with the same rights, carrying the same responsibility as a common man, not flying in the clouds. I think that if 450 deputies were to be landed at the level of a simple person, there would probably be completely different decisions in the sessional room. And perhaps we have moved further, and much further, along the path of economic and socio-political democratic progress. And when today a fateful question is put in the hall, and almost today the people of Ukraine are watching and waiting for the courage of the deputies today, even if it were two months before the elections, to descend into the sinful land, not to preach above, not to teach the people how to live. At least for the last two months, we've been walking around the country. People now, millions of voters, are waiting for the session hall to vote. And I'm ashamed of my opposition colleagues that they're not in the hall today, yes. They're just spitting into the soul of the Ukrainian people, yeah! They spit and say, no, we're not going down to the wrong land, we're going to fly in the clouds, no one's going to get us, we're going to make a mess, we're going to stay intact, and so on! But that position does not share the majority! This position is not shared by the Party of the Regions! And we are still politically said to force the session room to vote on amendments to the Constitution so that MPs are like ordinary citizens and respond like ordinary citizens! Dropped the smoke check. I've already mentioned the example of someone throwing a smoke checker in Ukraine, when he was seven, he wouldn't be in this room anymore. And here they left, they poisoned and they walk, so to speak, and they tell. Therefore, I propose a vote. Here people gathered with conscience, the true patriots of Ukraine, I think we will vote on this bill. A disgrace to the opposition who will not vote for the removal of integrity!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u18	The Stoneman's handing over the Chapel, that's what I understand. Please get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u19	Honourable Ukrainians, honourable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs, on behalf of the MP group Reforms for the Future, I would like to express our position on this issue. We will not support this bill. And I'll start with that. We have a number of comments to this bill, especially on the theses that are expressed in it. Well, first of all, a democratic community is a society where a minority is subordinated to the majority's decision, but in the condition that rights are granted to this minority. When a national MP, the President of Ukraine, has the same powers as the judicial corps today within the limits of gaining the status of immunity just for the purpose of exercising their authority, then we must look at it this way: either everyone has the right or no one has the right. Then we will all really be equal before the law. Next question. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, today, in my political and parliamentary activities, questions are being sent***** precisely because of the interference of private individuals or legal persons with more than 3 and a half thousand cases, and it is on the basis of my intervention, the People's Chamber of the Caplienne. 40 percent of these cases are cases in which a judge could be arranged to open a criminal case, as this law provides, and I would be detained or arrested. I want to tell you, if you don't have the touchiness, I just want to bring back the old and the new edition that we're offered. The old paper says that MPs are not legally responsible for voting or expressing themselves in Parliament and that there is some way to clear up such a thesis as insults and slander. What, further insults and slander are normal procedures or what? Next question. Ukraine’s old - fashioned national MP cannot be held criminally liable, arrested, or detained without the approval of the Supreme Council. And that's the question that only happens in the case of the granting of rights by the Supreme Council. Today, any MP in this room has returned to Poltava, Odessa, or Lviv, or Donetsk, for example, to be held accountable by a court decision. In what way does this happen, why do it? Does this deprive the deputies of any inequality in relation to Ukrainian citizens? No, but to put a deputy who acts and exercises his powers on account of his own inviolability, because they'll shut down the country's admissions, because we'll talk about something completely different, because the deputy will get a criminal case based on the fact of political persecution. Is that what you want? We're not going to support that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u20	Easy. Prepare Litwinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u21	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! For starters, I have some rhetorical questions. A colleague of Chechetov just broke up on the rostrum. Please tell the honourable citizens of Ukraine, the millions who listen and look at us, at least one among you is, who believes Chechtev and others like him want to descend into a sinful land, as they say? Or that they want to walk with their feet on this earth, or that they are people with a conscience? I don't think there's gonna be one voter in Ukraine who'll believe those lying words. And I'll tell you that this is an absolute right, there's not a single person in this room who wants to go down to the sinful earth, walk on it with their feet, and be like the common people. And are you not surprised that they suddenly wanted to walk on sinful soil in two months of election? And I'll show you, he's five people who signed up for a discussion of a fateful one, as Chechetov says. Why such activity? But because obviously, the first, the first, the actual subtraction of the inviolability, it's all pre-election pyar. The other one. This question will not be resolved before the election. I mean again, the honourable Ukrainians, the honourable citizens of Ukraine, are fooling you. I didn't in vain ask my colleague Miroshnichenko the question: are they taking away the integrity of the President and the judges? No, they're not. The President remains a feudal one, and he will have no touch; the judges remain feudal ones, who will have the same touchlessness, and the MPs remain untouched, and they will not walk as they did in the sinful land, because if they are sent down to this sinful land, can you imagine Chechtov going somewhere in the midst of people without being touched, without being protected from it? One wet place. For the things he's been doing here for years in Parliament. And you're saying that he'll give up the inviolability? Do not lie to yourself or to people! They're going to have everything left, it's the electoral pierre. Just like the question of Russian. People don't care about the issue of Russian, but two months before the elections, the regionals suddenly took on this issue, and instead of solving the problem of crime: hiring people, lowering prices, affordable housing, overcoming corruption in law enforcement -- they give us language and inviolability. This is done, honourable voters, with one goal: to kick your ass before the election, to tell you again how they care about Russian-speaking citizens, how they want the MPs to be untouchable. You'll remember me: after the election, this whole lie will come down like snow in the spring, and they'll be sitting there with nothing to touch, and they'll have everything they have again. Why? Because people are used to just cheating. When we, the good people, finally understand how the Bible says, "judge them according to their deeds," and not according to the words, but not according to Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u22	Litwinov's handing over Landik. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u23	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, of course, is not only relevant – it can already be said and is out of date. And I agree with those speakers who have confirmed that we've all talked about removing the touch, and when we do, we forget a little. But I think we have that memory, but it's because of the procedure. There's no opposition and there can't be 300 votes, and we don't have 300 votes, and that's why we're still going, and we're going to get through this. But it can't be overcome without beginning. That's why I'm going to support him. I understand the decision of the Constitutional Court on the President, where it is written in the Constitution. I just don't understand why we have untouchable judges. If we, the political figures, are dealing with various issues, especially in the districts, and we face a lot of problems, including unjust sentences, and people are telling us about them, if we are untouchable to start talking to touched judges, then this touching judge or untouchable judge will make a very good verdict for the touched MP of the Supreme Council. That's why I think the judges' intrusiveness should be removed before the MPs. Because we see the decision of the courts. Literally yesterday in Prevalsk, well, in Alchevsk, the court's decision to beat a man up almost half to death is issued by a judge. The police are arresting, investigating, bringing them to trial, immediately issuing. It turns out there's a head of the Perew administration, who personally demands it, he asks himself, and here they are going to meet him. So a judge can, under administrative pressure, as we see it in Perewalsk, yes, for money, like the Ravenko court's verdict on the murder of Dennis Dawidov, the murder of the beast and the murder of Judge Jadhan. It's for the money that Kushnarenko's lawyer is bringing him. And if the judge doesn't get punished, the lawyer who's got his money won't get punished either. And if there is no punishment, there will be injustice in the courts and injustice in society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u24	Catherine Samuelk, a faction of Communists, followed by Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u25	You don't have to vote here and tear your shirt off. Take an example from the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, which, throughout all the references to being on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, took a principled position, and in any situation for any authorship of the law to remove the intactness, we voted in principle in favour, because in our view, we did. We are chosen by the people, and we must be like the entire Ukrainian people. But before that, they're screaming like crazy, right? And there he yells, and there he screams, and we're about to get our earrings kicked. So I want to remind you, remember when BUT was in power, "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense, what did you promise before the elections? But when the time came for the vote to remove the intactness, your third of the people did not vote consciously in order to break the issue. Don't forget the factions you came out of, even though it's now straying! Don't forget, please, and don't lie, please. Even then, our leader, that things, the leader of our faction, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, have several times passed the draft Law on MP's in touch, and you, again, passed the bill. We're going down! And now the time is running out, and now we have to scream about what you've become smart and what you've become! You don't have to do this! People are already giving us an estimate. What's more, you're no longer a member of the MPs, you're a member of the armed forces, you're separated from the people! Get out there and see what kind of car you're driving! Look, please, you can't go into the bathroom because you're with razor-headed guards. That you're there. What virtue do you safeguard? That you're carrying so much value into that toilet that you're dragging guards behind you, that it's impossible and embarrassing to even get through! And that's why the faction of the Company of Ukraine, in principle, will vote. And I'm addressing you, your respectable fellow countrymen, your respectable voters, don't believe the delusional words, please look at their squadrons, look at their cars, look at the razor-headed guards, and they have such a vest that you never touch their souls.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u26	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u27	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Obviously a very important bill, look, even after speeches and discussions, how much controversy, how much discussion, how much anger, it's obviously important. But since there were so many shoutings here to me, really, a right colleague, which is hard to do, when they're so shouting, it's like everybody's deaf, I'm going to keep quiet. And I'm going to start by saying that the term "deputy immunity," by the way, not the touchiness, but the touchiness, it is. There are philosophers here, there are writers, it's strange, because you can't take a normal person away from him so you can touch him. The correct wording is immunity, it's a parliamentary immunity, which is in a limited way in virtually all countries of the European continent and not just the European continent. Is the bill completely immune? I mean, is our ability to be active, to be bold, to stand up for the rights of our constituents in the session room being taken away? Apparently, he's not leaving. This is an important situation and an important situation. One more moment. You know, there's this legend that's created from time to time, or this myth about the fact that a bill is always before the election. If we get out of this, no bill is ever important, no resonant bill will be considered. Well, agree with that. One election campaign will be over, another election campaign will be considered. And so what happens in the settlement plan for parliamentary immunity will never be resolved. Thus, those who say that this is now being done before the elections come into conflict with their electoral promises, their electoral promises, their electoral commitments. I didn't care when Yuri Miroshnichenko was standing here behind the rostrum, I mentioned two key slogans of one political force: it was "the bandits of the prisons" and it was "the integrity of the MPs". It's hard to say about the Bandits here because you have to look at the service list and the credit history of those who posted the password. And there's going to be a lot of questions, journalists, including. And for the sake of "inviolability" there is an opportunity today to implement your election or election promise. But to do that, we need to vote at least 400 deputies. If 400 deputies today do not vote in favour of this, then those who put it up as voting slogans were simply deceiving their voters. And we have to agree with that. The People's Party faction will unanimously support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u28	Question completed. Dear colleagues! I'm putting the ruling to a vote. Let's vote, and then there'll be a line. I bet on the vote Order No. 3251: on the submission to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine. [[concerning the guarantee of inviolability for individual officials]] Please vote. [[10:34:12]] For 236 Decision taken. By factions, please: The Regional Party – 183, "The Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine" – 0, Communists – 22, People's Party - 20, "Reforms" – 1, non-fractional – 10. Press correctly. Dear colleagues, the decision is made. The bill amending the Constitution is referred to the Constitutional Court for its consideration. [[concerning guarantees of non-touchability for individual officials]] Please, Chechetov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u29	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. Well, here's a leader of the Radical Party who seems to have distanced himself from the opposition, and in fact he was defending the opposition, in fact, he's with them, he's categorically opposed to the removal of the integrity. Why? Because yesterday, a representative of the Fatherland faction, you think about it, you move a policeman's leg, you get traumatized, you get hurt. Even if it were in America, someone moved the police's leg to protect the peace of the citizens! I speak to the most honest media: why are you silent about this?Oh, my God! The militia, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, have done their utmost to carry out a brilliant Euro-2012 and, as a thank you, the opposition has moved its foot on its jeep there, or I don't know what. And they don't want to take it off! I propose in the newspaper "The Voice of Ukraine" that we publish who voted for the removal of the integrity and who didn't! Let the family know their heroes too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we need to remove the differences in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in the bill number 10088, the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on improving the taxation of the value of domestic fuel granted to widows of dead coal pensioners who had the right to such fuel free of charge during their lifetime]] The head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, makes proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to harmonize the provisions of subparagraphs 1 and 2 of the adopted law and to make them available as follows: First. Paragraph 5 of sub-paragraph "g" 138. 10.6 Article 138.10 should be supplemented by the words "and the widows of the deceased pensioners mentioned in this sub-paragraph who had such a right in life". The other one. Paragraph 5 of Subparagraph 165. 1.20 paragraph 165. Article 165 should be supplemented by the words: "and the widows of the deceased pensioners mentioned in this sub-paragraph who had such a right in life." In doing so, it is suggested that the law should take effect from the day of its publication. Please support these proposals for Bill 10088. Please vote. [[10:38:01]] For 265 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering the calendar plan for the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call, Bill number 10696. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[10:38:33]] For 231 Supported. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics, and Security of the Supreme Council, McKeenko Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, you are invited to consider the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the calendar plan for the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call at number 10696. The proposed draft calendar plan is prepared according to the requirements of the first article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 10 and 19 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the characteristics of the electoral campaign for the election of Ukrainian national deputies on 28 October 2012, provided for in articles 98, 99 and 100 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies. The draft calendar plan is in line with the parliamentary factions and the parliamentary group in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The draft calendar plan proposes to open the plenary session on September 4, 2012, and to conclude the sixth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 14, 2012. During the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft calendar plan provides: for plenary meetings, 7 weeks, for committees and commissions and factions, 5 weeks, for the work of Ukrainian national deputies with voters, 3 weeks and 7 hours of "questions to the Government" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support this draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u32	Have a seat, please. We'll sign up for a discussion if they're desirable. Please, Zarubinsky. Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u33	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Well, I took the floor, frankly, to, well, secure an extra discussion. I looked at this calendar plan when it was represented by the head of the profiling committee. It's built completely out of those norms and of those, well, I'll even say the traditions that are in the Supreme Council. The first and third weeks are plenary sessions. The second week is work on committees and factions. Week four is voter work. Why I think this calendar plan is worth supporting. Because what starts in three weeks of electoral campaign is a fact. But no one canceled the session, the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And to make legislative decisions for those who will be in the next Parliament, who will not be in the next Parliament, to do what is very much. If it is possible to have another 4 as a minimum of plenary weeks, I mean to give elections to the next parliamentary chamber, then these 4 parliamentary weeks, plenary weeks, sorry, sessional weeks should be used for full capacity. Once again, we have to do what we have to do. And all the time, to point out that there's going to be an electoral process that we're not going to be able to work. Obviously not exactly correct, not exactly correct. I propose to support the head of the profiling committee and to vote in favour of the proposed calendar plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u34	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'll be brief. The calendar plan presented to us is technical, absolutely normal, we support it by 100 percent. And we're very happy that the discussion that went on with this decision -- whether it's short-term or long-term -- we chose until December 14th. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u36	On that basis, from the opposition of one minute. Yes, I'm an opposition, yes. I guarantee you, I'll give you a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u37	The last time I give you one minute is because he says he represents the entire opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u38	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, opposition national MP. Opposable! And since you have one parliamentary majority here, and there are no other people against the opposition, I am taking and speaking in order to protect the people from this Parliament. Here, the parliamentary sleaghbaum has just told me that I am against the removal of parliamentary immunity. I'm the one who took it because I think that the MP's in touch, and so is the integrity of the President and the judges, are the survivors of the feudal past, and they need to be eliminated. But I don't want you to cheat on people. And now you're deceiving them because you're not going to record this inviolability and you're pianizing it, you're parasitic about inviolability for just one purpose: to tease Ukrainian citizens. You've been cheating on them for the last 20 years, and you keep doing it, and you're hoping you'll do it for another 100 years. For further work of the Supreme Council. I think that further work of the Supreme Council is pointless. Because today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is in fact an anti-Ukraine Parliament that, thanks to these majority of the Party of Regions, adopts anti-Ukrainian laws. That is why such a Supreme Council must cease its existence immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u39	Question completed. Dear colleagues, I cannot agree that the calendar for the last session is drawn up according to tradition. According to tradition, the Supreme Council of the previous calling never called again after the elections took place. Well, we have that right, that's what the Rules provide, even though everything can be in life, and where we can guarantee that the necessary 226 deputies, who are no longer deputies, will be in the session room, but time will tell. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt Order 10696 on the calendar plan for the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote. [[10:45:26]] For 266 Decision, decision taken. Let's go to chapter two. We are considering the draft Law on the Implementation of the Presidential Initiatives on the Cost of Mortgage Loans. [[Registration number 10557]] Reported the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your esteemed colleagues, the draft Law on the Implementation of the Social Initiatives of the President of Ukraine on the Cost Loss of Mortgage Loans, which was adopted on June 22, this year in the first reading, and with preparation for the second reading, today is put to the vote in the second reading and in general. The committee had 29 proposals, 16 of which were taken into account, 2 taken into account in an editorial way, and the rest was rejected. The amended bill clearly states that the interest on loans received by citizens for the construction, reconstruction or acquisition of housing is being compensated according to the order in which mortgages are charged by the Cabinet of Ministers. This will allow mortgage-free mechanisms that don't need regulation at the level of the law, and you'll have to signify them by the government's regulations. The bill is ready to vote in the second reading. The only amendment I'd like to make for confirmation, National Deputy Klimenko, 25th Amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u41	We're going after the repairs. Whitelighter, 5th Amendment. Declined. Don't insist. Carmazine, 7th. He doesn't insist, although he's the Vice Prime Minister of the Shadow Cabinet, but he's in the Prime Minister's chair. Whitelighter, 8th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 12th. Don't insist. Whitelighter, 13th. Don't insist. Lukyanov, 15th. Don't insist. Whitelighter, 16th. Don't insist. 18th, 19th Carmazin. Declined. Don't insist. Whitelighter, 22nd. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u42	25th, if possible, on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u43	25th, Klimenko. It's counted. The committee's asking for confirmation. I'll bet 25 for confirmation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:48:38]] For-0 Keeps the first reading in the editor. Everyone else is included, although here is a remark by the Chief Legal Authority that the bill needs to be redrafted and even re-readed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and generally as a law on the implementation of the President's social initiatives on the cost of mortgage loans. [[Registration number 10557]] Please vote. [[10:49:33]] For 256 The law is passed. You don't have the right to speak, I'm sorry, Makinka. Chaplain, show me the rule of the Rules why you have the opportunity to speak. We are considering: a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the definition of terms of supply. [[Registration number 9602]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on economic policy of Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u44	The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Economic Policy at its meeting on 3 July this year discussed in a second reading the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the definition of terms of supply, respectively registration number 9602 from 10 December 2011. The bill was introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Adopted as the basis for the first reading, May 22, 2012. The purpose of the bill is to enable the subject of economic activity to determine on the basis of free will conditions and supply contracts for internal and external trade, using well - known international customs, recommendations, rules of international bodies and organizations. In all, three proposals were received from the national deputies. They're all accounted for. So please support the table's proposed version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u45	Yes, dear colleagues, three amendments were made to Carmazinim. They're all accounted for. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading as a whole. I put this motion to a vote: the adoption of the whole Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the definition of terms of supply. [[Registration number 9602]] Please vote. [[10:51:54]] For 253 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Trade Interchange Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity. [[Registration number 10020]] [[second reading]] Report to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitniks, Alexy Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u46	The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 3 July 2012 considered, in a second reading, a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of foreign exchange transactions, as of 9 February 2012. [[Registration number 10020]] The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on February 9, 2012, was adopted as the basis for the first reading on May 15, 2012. The purpose of the bill is to simplify the procedures for regulating external economic activity, namely, to abolish the requirement to obtain a single individual permit to exceed the time limits set for importing goods, to perform work, to provide services imported under barter contracts. Only three proposals came from the National MPs, only one of them was rejected, and it's about the amendment of the People's Deputies of Arjevetina, which suggests that the word "load" be excluded. While there is no such word in the text at all. Please support the table selection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u47	Yes, dear colleagues, it was the 1st Amendment of Arjevethina, it was rejected. The 2nd Amendment of Carmazin is rejected, not insisted. The 3rd Carmagina is listed as an editorial. The rule of law was governed by the law without any notice. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I'm proposing to pass as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the regulation of trade-offs in external economic activities. [[Registration number 10020]] Please vote. [[10:54:22]] For 266 The law is passed. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the free choice of a sanatorium. [[Registration number 10437]] [[second reading]] Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chonobile Disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u48	Dear fellow national MPs! For your second reading, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the Free Choice of Citizens Affected by Chernobyl, a sanatorium. Bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council on 19 June 2012. The purpose of the bill is to overcome corruption that has been in existence for a long time while providing resort and sanitation treatment for black people. Today, this bill empowers black people to choose their own treatment facility by obtaining a certificate or voucher from the State. The bill from law - enforcement entities received 39 suggestions, from which the committee proposes to take 38 proposals into account, to reject one. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine called for a bill with observations. The committee agrees with the proposal and proposes to consider the changes to the bill’s title. The committee also considers it possible to take note of the deletion of section 2, paragraph 2. With regard to the determination of the average cost of travel by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee disagrees, insists on the reflection of this rule in the State Budget Act of Ukraine, as this problem concerns 2.2 million people affected by the Chernobyl disaster and will have a significant impact on the budget. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the free choice of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, a sanatorium and resort to the adoption of a second reading and, in general, a law that takes into account the observations of the General Legal Authority, which the Committee disagrees with, and a technical legal drafting of the text of the bill. [[Registration number 10437]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u49	Thank you, Anatoly Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, this is the first time I've seen a table where it's written practically entirely "partially counted", "edited." So all the adjustments that come out of those words are taken into account. No one insists on authors who are partially or editorially corrected? There's no such thing. Then let's say, fellow honourable Members, we vote for a change in the name of the law, this is a remark by the Chief Legal Authority. A professional committee agrees with these comments. Suggests to put the name of the project in the following format: On the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the provision of sanatorium routes. I think it's really better this way. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u50	The committee requests that the amendment be supported. [[10:58:42]] For 261
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u51	Copy that. I would like to vote on the adoption as a whole of a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the provision of sanatorium routes, taking into account those proposals made by the General Legal Authority, which were accepted by the Professional Committee. Please vote. [[10:59:25]] For 266 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the characteristics of economic activity in order to ensure the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, representing international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10411]] Reported to the head of the committee’s subcommittee on economic policy of Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u52	Ukraine's draft Law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the characteristics of economic activity in order to ensure the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, the representation of international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading on 9 February 2012. [[Registration Number 10411 of December 22, 2011]] The proposed changes are aimed at ensuring the proper level of diplomatic representation and consular institutions of foreign states, representing the international intergovernmental organizations of Ukraine. Accordingly, the draft law provides for amendments to the master and budget codes of Ukraine, as well as to the laws of Ukraine concerning the rental of state and municipal property and the administration of public property. On June 19, 2012, the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council considered the bill. The committee’s second reading was attended by seven proposals from the national deputies, five of which were fully considered, one taken into account, and one was rejected. These suggestions have been carefully worked out, and there is an appropriate justification for each amendment. The Chief Legal Authority made comments to the bills that stated that the draft law did not comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, in view of what has been said, the committee suggests that the project be considered in a second reading and accepted as a law as a whole. If there's an amendment, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, let's see. Carmazine, 1 correction. Don't insist. The rest of the amendments are counted. The rule of law was marked with observations. The committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and in general. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the specificity of the implementation of economic activity by ensuring the functioning of diplomatic representations and consular institutions of foreign states, representing international intergovernmental organizations in Ukraine. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 10411]] Please vote. [[11:02:40]] For 255 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for the illegal treatment of weapons and explosives]] [[second reading]] [[Registration number 10554]] Report to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Enforcement, Vladimir Olijnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection was prepared for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes. [[on responsibility for the illegal treatment of weapons and explosive materials]] The bill was adopted on June 6, 2012. The purpose of the bill is to improve criminal law rules on liability for crimes related to the illicit circulation of firearms and cold weapons, ammunition, explosives and explosive devices. The bill proposes to amend the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, in particular: the crime envisaged in article 263 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is proposed to refer to the category of serious crimes by establishing the responsibility of depriving them of their liberty for a term of 3 to 7 years. Ukraine's Criminal Code to complement the new article 263 with the badge 1 "Illicit manufacture of weapons, ammunition or explosives". In doing so, the commission of a pretrial investigation into such crimes is given to the authorities responsible for the internal affairs. The bill had seven proposals, five of which had been rejected. This is a proposal, particularly by the People’s Deputy Carmazin (No. 5), since it is contrary to article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. At the same time, we believe that the amendments made by the national MPs, in particular the Oilynik and Moses, are accountable, as they improve this bill and eliminate differences in existing legislation. Regarding the comments made by the General Legal Authority, the Committee considers that they are theoretical and may most likely be the subject of a discussion in scientific circles, and in fact the government has passed a bill based on the application of article 263 of the Criminal Code. The committee recommends that a second reading bill be adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u55	Thank you. Let's see the amendments. All the amendments are taken into account, except for one amendment from five colleagues in Carmazin and seven, I'm sorry. Don't insist. The chief legal office said, "It needs substantial reprocessing and re-reading." The committee proposes to accept it as a law in the second reading as a whole. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt the Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for the illegal treatment of weapons and explosives]] [[Registration number 10554]] Please vote. [[11:06:33]] For 253 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing liability for counterfeiting or forcible medical devices. [[Registration number 10561]] [[second reading]] He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement was prepared for a second reading of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening liability for counterfeiting or the circulation of counterfeit drugs. The bill was adopted on June 7, 2012. The purpose of the bill is to improve the effectiveness of the fight against the illegal circulation and falsification of drugs. The bill proposes a new edition of article 321 with the badge 1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. To supplement the Code with a new article 321 with a badge 2. Post a new article 44 with a 2 - Ukrainian Codex on Administrative Offences. Increase the penalties in article 305 of the Criminal Code. As well as complement the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code with the positions that determine the perpetuity of crimes provided for in Article 321 with the badge 2. The bill had 32 proposals. Of these, 17 are fully accounted for, 10 are partially accounted for, and 5 are rejected. These are proposals from 1, 4, 5 of the Karmazin People’s Deputy, which are designed to leave the position and title of article 44 with the badge 2 and the first part of article 244 in its original form. In addition, it is suggested that article 42, with the badge 2, be completed with a footnote that is in the correct form. His number 11 proposal cannot be supported either, as taking this amendment into account will result in the enforcement of legislation on the administrative responsibility of the number of offences noted. Also, there is no support for the 23rd National Deputy of Bachevo, since a similar proposal by the Swedish national deputy is supported. However, members of the committee, taking into account the proposal to reduce station size in articles 305, 321, 321 with the symbol "2" of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, as well as proposals to bring the bill into line with the bill adopted yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Law "To Amend the Basics of Ukrainian Health Law". [[on the establishment of restrictions in the management and management of occupational health-care and pharmaceutical establishments]] The committee recommends that the bill be adopted in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u57	Yeah, let's get some repairs. 1st Amendment, Carmagina. Don't insist. Four-a, five-a, he's rejected. Don't insist. Corge, 14th is partially accounted for. Don't insist. 15th, Carmagina, partially accounted for. Batecheva, 23rd. Don't insist. So the rest are counted or counted in part. A number of comments were made by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a whole, in the second reading and in general as a law. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase liability for counterfeiting or the circulation of falsified medical devices. [[Registration number 10561]] Please vote. [[11:11:02]] For 266 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Electricity Act to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure. [[unbreakable]] [[Registration number 10337]] Report to the Deputy Head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u58	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security on 20 June 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity to ensure reliable electricity supply to consumers and investment in infrastructure submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[unbreakable]] [[Registration number 10337]] The draft law is designed to fulfil the obligations set out in the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on Ukraine's Accession to the Treaty on the Establishment of an Energy Community, such as bringing Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of EU Directive 2005/89 on security of electricity supply and infrastructure investment. The text adopted in the first reading was based on 18 suggestions from four national deputies: Carmazin, Romanyuk, Sharov, and Humenjuk, of which 7 were counted and 11 were rejected. Proposals taken into account by the Committee have been worked out and made by the working group with the participation of representatives of the executive authorities, such as proposals, with a view to resolving the issue of the use of the term "assisting measures to ensure the permanent functioning of the combined energy system of Ukraine". Also in view of the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office in the Ukrainian Law on Electricity, it is proposed that the definition of "operational security of the combined energy system of Ukraine" be given. In addition, it is proposed that the name of the central authority referred to in the bill to the requirements of Presidential Decree No.382/2011 of 6 April 2011 on the position of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, by naming the central authority in the appropriate wording: "the central authority of the executive authority that ensures the formation and implementation of state policy in the electricity complex". As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill as a law. [[Registration number 10337]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. As amended, if you have any questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u59	We're going after the repairs. Carmazine, 2nd. Don't insist. Carmazine, 3rd. Don't insist. Carmazine, 5th and 6th. Don't insist. Sharov, 7th. Don't insist. Rubber, 9th. Carmazine, 11th. Don't insist. He's 13 years old. 14th Rubber and 15th. Don't insist. And 18th-returned Carmazin. Don't insist. A number of comments to the bill were made by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee suggests that it be accepted as a second reading and as a whole. I'm voting on the adoption of the whole Law on Amendments to the Law on Electricity on Secure Electricity Supply to Consumers and Investing in Infrastructure. [[unbreakable]] [[Registration number 10337]] Please vote. [[11:15:32]] For 255 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we should be looking at the draft Employment Act, but we haven't got the table yet. [[Registration number 10497-1]] Prepares the conclusions of the General Legal Office, that is to say, for later consideration. And now we're looking at a bill amending the Ukrainian National Archives and Archives Act. [[on the Expertise on the Value of Documents]] [[Registration number 8755]] The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. None. Let's do this function for him. Please allow the committee to accept the second reading as a whole. The rule of law was unattended. So let's follow the amendments. Okay, first amendment. Not counted. Do Not Urge Partially counted, Guyshuk, 5th. Don't insist. 7th, Zarubinsky. Partially counted. Don't insist. Declined 14th, Carmazin. Don't insist. Arjovitin, 20th. Partly. Don't insist. Arjovitin, 23rd. Declined. And 25th. Don't insist. Jojik, 28th. Declined. Contests articles 116 of the Rules. Don't insist. The rest of the amendments are included. I've already told you that the committee's conclusion is to accept. And the Chief Legal Authority has called attentionlessly. I'm voting on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Archives and Archives. [[on the Expertise on the Value of Documents]] [[Registration number 8755]] Please vote. [[11:17:56]] For 237 The law is passed. We are considering: the draft Act amending articles 9 and 25 of the Ukrainian Law on the Collection and Accounting of the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 9779]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work, Vasil Georgievich Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, your attention is given to considering a comparative table of the bill amending articles 9, 25 of the Law on Collection and Accounting for a single contribution made by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[No. 9779]] I recall that the project synchronizes payment and reporting to entrepreneurs both in the Ukrainian Tax Code and in the Ukrainian Act on the collection and accounting of a single contribution to the general government social insurance. The legislative proposal proposes to change the time frame for payment of a single contribution to individuals and self-employed persons, as the current version of the Single Contributions Act does not, in fact, comply with the time limits for payment and reporting to entrepreneurs and self-employed persons for themselves and for employees, namely, the current standard provides that payments and reporting should be made monthly and for employees once a year. The actual norm is working today, as employees receive monthly wages and the owner himself receives the sum per year. The bill was adopted by the Supreme Council on 20 March 2012, and four proposals were made in the comparative table, two of which were taken into account and two were rejected. In finalizing the draft second reading, all the proposals of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office were taken into account. The bill is unsaid and can be adopted on second reading and generally as a law to which I call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u61	Carmazin’s 1 correction is rejected. Two, it's his. Don't insist. Three, Hara. Counted. Fourth Carmazine. Counted. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt, in the second reading and in general, the Act amending articles 9 and 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Collection and Accounting for the Only Contribution to the General Compulsory State Social Insurance. [[Registration number 9779]] Please vote. [[11:20:42]] For 265 The law is passed. We are considering: a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts. [[on the cessation of the right to use land, when disposing of land for social purposes]] [[Registration number 9557]] Report to the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Vasil Vasilovitch Czerni, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u62	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, your attention is drawn to Bill No. 9557, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 15 May 2012, and prepared by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on second reading. I would like to remind you that the bill proposes to establish a procedure for halting the use of land in public and municipal property if it is necessary to use it for social purposes, During the second reading of the project, 30 amendments were made to the committee by the Ukrainian National Deputies, of which 10 were included, part one, part three, rejected 16. With regard to the amendments rejected, most of them propose to change the concept of the bill adopted in the first reading. Other rejected amendments have been made in violation of article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee at its meeting on June 19 recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept the second reading and generally as a law. However, in the process of agreeing on a bill between the factions, there was a mixed view of the proposed changes to part four of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Disengagement. With a view to avoiding this misunderstanding, it may be appropriate to exclude these changes from the text of the bill, taking into account amendment 20 by the national deputy Lukyanchuk. Perhaps it would be appropriate to place it for approval, for confirmation. In addition, the Committee considers that the proposals of the General Legal Directorate to clarify paragraph 3.1 of part six of article 102 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and part one of the first part of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Land Disposal of Other Real Estate Objects, which are located in private property, for social purposes or for reasons of social necessity, are correct. Please support the proposals and entrust this authority with the technical and legal drafting of the bill. Please support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u63	Yes, your honor, 3rd, Carmazine, dismissed. Don't insist. Sharov, 4th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 5th. 6th, Sharov. Lukyanchuk, 7th. Carmazine, 8th. Lukyanchuk, 16th. Sphinx, 17th. Lukyanchuk. 19th, 20th. 21st. Don't insist. And it's 23rd. Sphinx, 25th. Don't insist. Sphinx, 29th. Don't insist. The chief legal office called for a bill with observations. A professional committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading as a whole. I'm proposing the adoption of the Amendment Act to some Ukrainian legislation. [[on the cessation of the right to use land, when disposing of land for social purposes]] [[Registration number 9557]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:24:46]] For 226 The law has been passed. We are considering the draft Law on Technical Inventory of Real Estate Objects. [[Registration number 10286]] [[second reading]] Reported to the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Where's the reporter? Yes. Please. Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, we are once again returning to the same vicious law that we have been discussing in different ways throughout the year. Act 10286, I call your attention, it's called technical inventory. As you may recall, before I return, I'm going to go to the table, and I'd like to remind you that last November we had the President's veto on the previous edition of this law. And the President, in his veto, wrote a comment on which he had written the law. Thus, even last December, we set up a working group here in the Supreme Council to finalize the law and provide a new option that would satisfy everyone. A working group consisting of both representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, both representatives of the BTI bodies and representatives of local, regional and urban councils from various regions of our country, has been established. This is the collective work of this working group. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the President's wishes regarding making the work of technical inventory bodies competitive and allowing private structures there, and to do so, we have made an amendment here that would allow for such a private structure. However, in order to protect our citizens, to protect local councils and their archives, such a private structure must have a statutory capital of at least 10 million bracelets once. Second. It can work only by receiving information from local councils on a particular site, paying two in the local budget. Thirdly, after doing any work on this subject, it must transfer copies of the documents to the local archive, and a single archive in the area three. Fourthly, it has the right to work only if it meets the licensing requirements set by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: four. And continue to prepare for the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u65	First repair, Beazenka. Declined. Don't insist. Two o'clock, Carmazin. Third, Beazenka. I was a woman, 12th. He insists. 20th, Carmazin, 22nd. Sphinx, 27th, 28th. Don't insist. Gordyenka, 35th. Don't insist. Spinov, 36th. I was a woman, 37th. 38th, Carmazin. Sphinx, 44th and 45th. I was a woman, 46th. Don't insist. 47th, Gordien. Don't insist. Sphinx, 48th. Gordienka, 49th. Sphinx, '50s. Voropeyev, 51st. Don't insist. 52nd, Spinov. Gordon, 53rd. 54th, Spinov. 63rd, Suskevich. Don't insist. Sphinx, 66th. No, it doesn't. 68th, Suskevich. Don't insist. Sphinx, 69th. Gordon, 71st. Don't insist. Sphinx, 72nd. 73rd Suskevitch. Sphinx 74th. I was a woman, 77th. 80th, Spinov. Don't insist. Gordon, 81st. Don't insist. 82nd, Carmazin. Overruled. Don't insist. The last one is 83rd Carmazin. Counted. The Chief Legal Office writes that the bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed. A professional committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading as a whole. I am voting on the proposal to accept in the second reading and in general the Law on Technical Inventory of Real Property Objects. [[Registration number 10286]] Please vote. [[11:30:18]] For 260 The law is passed. We are considering a bill amending the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] [[second reading]] Reports the Head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u66	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting on June 6th reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Red Book of Ukraine. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] The bill is designed to improve measures for the protection of rare species of animals introduced into the Red Book of Ukraine. Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers and the National Academy of Sciences do not support the bill as one that is not sufficiently prepared and well-founded. At the same time, the Ukrainian Botanical Society proposes that article 4 be presented as an editorial prepared by the Committee for Second Reading. Ukraine’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources supports the bill. The Budget Committee notes that its adoption will have no impact on the budget. The second reading of the bill included comments by the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are proposed to clarify which species of animal and plant life and non-pathogenic microorganisms are to be included in the Red Book of Ukraine. The committee received four proposals from law enforcement entities that were included. The bill is proposed by the Chief Legal Authority without any notice. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to submit a draft of the Ukrainian Red Book Act, to amend the Ukrainian Red Book Act, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption in a second reading and as a whole as a law. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u67	Yeah, let's get some repairs. Dove, 2nd is considered editorially. Don't insist. Carmazine, 4th is partially accounted for. Don't insist. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Red Book Act. [[on increasing the protection of rare species of animals and plants]] [[Registration number 6472]] Please vote. [[11:33:25]] For 264 The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on Charity and Charity Organizations (Registration No. 6343 (second reading). Reported to the head of the Yavorowski Cultural Committee. Yeah, let's get some repairs. Voropeyev, the 8th amendment is rejected. Don't insist. Five, nine. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 11th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 12th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 17th. Don't insist. Lungskina, 22nd. Don't insist. 23rd, Carmazine. Don't insist. Karpuk, 31st. Don't insist. Carmazine, 32nd. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 34th. Don't insist. Carmazine, 38th. Don't insist. 39th, Tomenko. Don't insist. 49th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Are you insisting? 49th, please. It's a pipe microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u68	I'd like to draw your attention to this amendment, 49th. What's this all about? Suppose the charitable organization has decided to assist the local authority in repairing the water supply, in establishing a reform programme, for example, to provide heat to the population. So if my rights are not accepted, a charity can't help the local community. I don't understand why the committee is rejecting her in this case. It does not allow a charitable organization to engage in any business activity. It allows only one local authority to finance local infrastructure development, to establish development programmes and to plan for the reform of entire regions of the country. I insist on this. I'd like to vote on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u69	49 amendments to the vote. Please be supportive. [[11:36:07]] For 235 Correction supported. The pen, the 50th, is rejected. Don't insist. 52nd, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Carmazine, 57th and 58th. Don't insist. 59th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Carmazine, 62nd. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 67th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 74th. Don't insist. It's a 96-year-old pen. Don't insist. Lungskina, 97th. Don't insist. 112th, Lewochkina, Miroshnichenko. Don't insist. 119th, theirs, and 120th, 123rd. Don't insist. Carmazine, 128th. Don't insist. Foundry, 140th. Don't insist. Her, 145th, 147th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 149th. Don't insist. Rejected 155th, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 159th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 164th, 165th. Don't insist. Him, 168th. No, it's not. Left wing, 173rd. Voropeyev, 177th. No, it's not. Voropeyev, 183rd. Left wing, 221st, 224th, 226th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 231st. No, it's not. 235th, Voropeyev. No, it's not. Left wing, 248, 249th, 250th. No, it's not. Voropeyev, 251. Don't insist. 252th. Don't insist. 255th, 256th, Lewochkina, and 8th. Don't insist. 257, Voropeyev. Don't insist. Garbage, 264. Don't insist. It's 265th. Don't insist. Voropeyev, 267th. No, it's not. Tomenko, 269th. Lungskina, 285th. Don't insist. The rest of the amendments are taken into account or taken into account editorially. The Chief Legal Office notes that the bill requires substantial work and re-reading. The committee proposes to adopt the law in a second reading as a whole. I put to the vote an offer to accept in the second reading and in general the Law on Charity and Charity Organizations. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6343]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:40:28]] For 238. The law has been passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on taxation of ethyl alcohol for individual production]] [[Registration number 9268]] [[second reading]] Homutinian. Karakai, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I give the essence of the bill of our colleagues of Maybear and the Final. He foresees the elimination of double taxation on the use of alcohol by native producers of primary and mixed winemaking. The bill had 11 proposals, nine of which had been taken into account by the committee, and the entire committee had decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be voted on in the second reading and in general as a law. Please support the committee's proposal and, if possible, let's move on to the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u71	1 repair of Baranova. Counted. Is it? A proposal for confirmation. Please vote 1 amendment. [[11:42:05]] For-0 The first reading is left. 4th Amendment, Timoshuk. Not counted. Don't you insist? It's 7th and 8th. Don't you insist? All the rest of the adjustments are taken into account. The bill needs to be redrafted and re-readed, and legal administration is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, that was the conclusion in connection with the amendment of Baranov, which the Supreme Council had just rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u73	So she contradicted 116 articles? Right. Then we vote on the committee's proposal to adopt a second reading and in general the Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Taxation of ethyl alcohol for individual production. [[Registration number 9268]] Please vote. [[11:43:12]] For 238. The law is passed. We are considering the draft Law on State Energy Regulation in Ukraine. [[Registration number of bill 0889]] [[second reading]] Reports a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Gushchenko Igor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the draft Ukrainian Law on State Energy Regulation. A bill on state energy regulation in Ukraine under registration number 0889 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 7, 2007. He is the passover of the previous, fifth, calling. There have been significant changes in Ukrainian legislation over the past five years, including constitutional changes: changes in the distribution of powers between the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in connection with the implementation of the administrative reform, the laws of Ukraine, the Office of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of Executive Authorities. In addition, on 7 July 2011, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed Law 3610: "To amend certain legislative acts on national commissions that regulate natural monopolies in the field of communications and information, securities markets and financial services". Therefore, the vast majority of the provisions of Law 0889: on state regulation in Ukraine's energy -- do not correspond to the changes in legislation that I have just talked about. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security at its meeting on 20 June 2012 decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine withdraw this bill as one that has lost its relevance. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u75	Thank you. I would like to vote on the committee's proposal to withdraw the draft Ukrainian Law on State regulation in Ukraine's energy as such, which has become obsolete as a result of the adoption of other laws. [[Registration number 0889]] Please vote. [[11:45:56]] For 265 The law is passed. We made a decision, a rejection order, I'm sorry. I mean, yes, taken, removed from consideration, removed from consideration. Now we have 10424, but let me consult with the legal department, and we'll get back to him a little bit later.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u76	Let's see. They can't work for us. We're looking at the draft Energy Efficiency Act for housing and public buildings. [[Registration number 9683]] [[second reading]] Yes, who from the committee will report on the construction issues? Is there anyone on the committee? Dear colleagues, there is a letter from the chairman of the committee: "In view of the need to reconcile the individual provisions of the bill, the committee requests that the consideration of the project be postponed to a later date." Is there no objection? No, we don't. We're looking at a draft Civil Protection Code for Ukraine. [[Registration number 10294]] Report to the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Anatoly Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u77	Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished Adam Ivanovich! I would like to point out that today we are looking at a very serious bill, a draft civil protection code for Ukraine. And the Committee of the Supreme Council on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster asks you to postpone the consideration of this bill for a later period in view of the fact that the bill is very serious, very many observations of scientific and scientific management on 10 pages. We're going to set up a commission today with the Supreme Council's legal office, and we ask that we give this bill some time to work out so that we can adopt a quality document. I ask you to support this bill and move the draft Civil Protection Code to a later date for better preparation. [[Registration number 10294]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, the committee did not prepare for the second reading, explained the reason. I mean, we don't have one. and accepted as base 05.06. No, it's not. Well, of course. I am voting on a motion to postpone the consideration of the draft Civil Protection Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10294]] Please be supportive. [[11:49:38]] For 255 Transferred. Let's ask the committee, Anatoly Ivanovich, to prepare you for the second reading in September and we've considered this bill. We are considering a draft Act amending Ukraine's Earth Code. [[on how to conduct auction-based land trades]] [[Registration number 10231-3]] [[second reading]] A member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Evdzimovich Smityuch, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! A draft Ukrainian Law prepared by the Committee for second reading is being submitted to your consideration. [[Registration number 10231-3]] With regard to its content, I will briefly note that the bill is proposed at the legislative level to determine the order of sale of land and the acquisition of rights to land on competitive grounds. Such an arrangement is proposed to be recognized by means of changes and new editions of article 135-139 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. During the drafting of the bill, only 129 proposals and amendments were made to the committee, 71 of which were taken into account and 58 were rejected. The main proposals and amendments of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which change the individual position of the bill, were rejected on June 5, 2012, in the first reading, as well as those that exclude the provisions of the amendments taken into account. As a result of the discussion of the draft draft for the second reading, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u80	Let's get some repairs. 1 amendment. I was a woman. Declined. Don't insist. Lukyanov. 2nd. Don't insist. I was a woman. Third. Don't insist. Lukyanov. 11th. Don't insist. Lukyanov. 16th. I was a woman. 18th. Don't insist. Lukyanova. 23rd. Lukyanov. 25th, 26th, 27th, 28th, 29th. 33rd. 42nd. Lukyanov. Lukyanov. 44th. Lukyanchuk. 45th. Lukyanov. 47th. Lukyanov. 50th. Lukyanov. 58th. It's his 60th. 67th, 68th Lukyanov. Don't insist. 76th. Lukyanova. 77th, 78th, 81st, 85th, 89th. Lukyanova. 92nd. Lukyanova. 93rd. In short, I will no longer read Lukyanov if he does not insist, with your permission, we will see the amendments made by other national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u81	Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u82	Yes, apart from his colleague Lukyanov, no one else was offended by the committee. The principal legal office called for attention, and the committee asked for acceptance in the second reading as well as in general. I put to the vote a second reading and as a whole a law amending the Ukrainian Land Code on how to conduct auction-based land trades. [[Registration number 10231-3]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:54:26]] For 235 Decision taken. We've cleared up the questions about Bill 10424. So we're looking at the draft Law on Bar and Law, a new edition. [[Registration number 10424]] Reports the head of the Committee on Legal Policy’s subcommittee, Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legal Policy at its meeting considered a comparative table for the second reading of the draft Law on Lawyers and Legal Activities, adopted on June 5, 2012, on the basis of the first reading. [[Registration number 10424]] The bill is aimed at reforming lawyers according to the popular international democratic standards to ensure that lawyers are provided with high quality, professional and legal assistance. A committee of professionals was thoroughly involved in reviewing the bill. During the preparation of the bill for second reading to the committee, 142 proposals and amendments were made to the committee, of which 80 were taken into account in whole or in part. Other amendments were rejected as such, which conceptually disagree with the content of the bill adopted in the first reading or vice versa, do not alter the substance of the accepted standards. The Committee on Legal Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Bar and Advocacy, to be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 10424]] The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made a number of comments on the project and, in a general conclusion, stated that the bill could be adopted on second reading, taking into account the comments noted. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I am prepared, under the transcript, after we have considered the table, to sound those amendments to the Legal Office that we believe must be taken into account in the final vote of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u84	Yeah, let's get some repairs. Zabarsky, 1 amendment. Don't insist. Carmazine, 2nd. Don't insist. Zabarsky, 3rd. Don't insist. Sharov, 5th. Don't insist. Zabarski, 7th. Don't insist. Sharov, 12th. Don't insist. Carmazin, 15, 16, 18, 25 C.E. Sharov, 28th. Don't insist. Zabarsky, 30, 32, 34. Don't insist. Carmazine, 40th. Don't insist. 43, Zabarsky. 45, Carmazine and 46, 51 Carmazine. Don't insist. Zabarsky, 53, 54, 55, 56 and 58. Don't insist. Carmazine, 62rd. 63rd. Don't insist. 67, Carmagina. 68, Zabarsky. So, Zabarsky and Karmazin don't insist? Carmazin doesn't insist, then let's watch other national MPs. 118th is Carmazin. Don't insist. Yes, please, Carmazine's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u85	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Honorable Ukrainian citizens, Carmazin, introduced into this law, which has many anticonstitutional aspects of the very many proposals that I cannot now make, in view of the opposition's decision not to legitimize the work of this Supreme Council, which has become an entirely criminal organ. And I want to say that the chairman put himself outside the law. Adam Ivanovich, I don't know how you rule, you have to testify to the prosecutor's office, and in the morning until the evening. Because of this, the law has many faults. And I'm telling everyone that we have a point to make, but we can't make them out right now, because we think that you're not accepting them in a constitutional way. And today there are no deputies to vote for themselves by name.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u86	Grissack, 121, 124th, 126th, Grissack, 128th, 130th. So the rest of the amendments are included. Please, Yuri Romanovich, at the conclusion of the General Legal Authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u87	Yes, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I want to emphasize that this law is historic. For more than 10 years, Ukrainian society has been awaiting this law! This law makes lawyers really European, expands and protects the rights of lawyers, a lawyer's secret. And I am convinced that the quality of protection of the legitimate rights and interests of citizens with the approval of this law will come to a new level of quality. Now with regard to the observations of our Chief Legal Authority. They're right, and I'm going to sound them. To Article 2, an offer. Paragraph 3 delete. Next. To Article 9. Paragraph 2 is proposed in the following wording: "The qualification test is to identify theoretical knowledge in the field of law, the history of the lawyer, the legal ethics of the person who has shown a desire to become a lawyer, and also to identify the level of its practical skills and skills in the application of the law."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u88	Now, Yuri Romanovich! Dear colleagues! Let's vote on the proposal for part two. In Article 2 of Part 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u89	Item 3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u90	The "Organization and activities of Ukraine's lawyers are carried out on the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law, humanism, democracy, independence and self-determination" – to be excluded. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u91	I beg your pardon, Your Honor! And I emphasize that the General Legal Office, it gives purely legal rights, not politics. [[12:02:47]] For 263 Supported. In article 9, part two is set out in the text read by the reporter. Please vote. [[12:03:12]] For 263 Supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u92	Article 10 "Leader, Intern." Subparagraph 2 of paragraph 7 reads: "Extension of internships for a period of between 1 and 3 months."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u93	It was six to three months. I'm putting this motion to a vote, please. [[12:03:48]] For 265 Supported. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, article 20, "Professional rights of a lawyer." Paragraph 1, paragraph 2, should read: “Represent and defend the rights, freedoms and interests of natural persons, the rights and interests of legal persons in court”. Next word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u95	I'm putting this amendment to the vote, please support. [[12:04:28]] For 264 Supported. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, article 22 “The Secret of Advocacy. ” Paragraph 5 reads: “People guilty of access to or disclosure of a lawyer’s secret are responsible under the law.” It used to be "according to the law," it's more accurate, more correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u97	I'm putting this amendment to the vote, please support. [[12:05:09]] For 262 Supported. Dear colleagues, we have therefore taken into account a number of amendments to the General Legal Department, which the Committee has accepted and the Supreme Council has supported. With this in mind, I am voting to adopt in the second reading and in general the Law on Bar and Bar. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 10424]] And I'm tasking the Chief Legal Authority with a technical and legal editing, along with a profile committee. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u98	I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u99	[[12:05:54]] For 265 The law is passed. There's a break to 12 hours 36 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We're continuing the morning session. Now, according to the tradition of Thursday at 12.30 p.m., we are discussing the election and release of judges. Let us now consider the question of the election of judges. I invite the head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u101	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! According to article 76, part three, of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of articles 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act, and examined the referrals of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government bodies concerning the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who came to the Higher Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, I submit a decision to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u102	Order 10701, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u103	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksija Valentinović; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Kiloy Mikolayovich; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of Peskov Mark Ivanovich; The Court of Appeal of the Poltava District of Chumak Olen Victorovna; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Oretia Eugenia Vasilovich, Sarnovsky Vasil Jaroslavovich; the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Barchuk Volodymyr Mikolayovich; Wynnick's Administrative Court of Appeal Polotnjanek Yuri Petrovich, Drought of Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u104	Please, Garbage, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u105	According to the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District of Barcuk, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, there are some observations. Please remove it from the general list.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u106	A Note to Whom? What was your last name?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u107	According to Barchuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, the Court of Appeal of the Hmelic Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u108	So you're from Volin County, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u109	And he's from Volin. He's going to Hmelnicke County.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u110	Right. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u111	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'd like to address Mr. Samsin's head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges with the following question. This week, the European Court of Human Rights acknowledged a violation by Ukraine of the European Convention on Human Rights in part of the arrest of the former Minister of Interior Lucenka. The European Court of Justice declared this arrest politically motivated and obliged Ukraine to pay 15,000 euros in compensation. Justice Minister Lavrinović stated that there was such money in the budget. I believe that this money should first be paid out of the pockets of prosecutors, judges, investigators who imprisoned Lucenko for political reasons. And secondly, I have repeatedly asked you to file a motion for the release of Judge Vuk and Kiriev. You told me there was no reason for that. Do you not see the judgment of the European Court, which actually discredits the Ukrainian judicial system, as showing its incapacity, as the basis for the application for the release of the Wolf, which is why we have this infamous decision against Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I ask you to speak on the subject that we are discussing, not at all. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the election of judges with the exception of the name Barchuk Volodymira Mikolaiovich. [[Registration number 10701]] Please vote. [[12:41:57]] For 247 Decision taken. Yes, please, microphone. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, come to the microphone. Please, what comments? Turn the towel on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u113	There was the matter of the Head of Education of the Lutsky district of Tarasenko Mikolayovitch, there was a matter of food organization, there were letters from the State Food Organization, and a number of these positions were not taken into account in my opinion. There's a case going on in the Court of Appeal. Until this is discussed, let's hold on to these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u114	What can you explain, Vladimir Mikolaiovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u115	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u116	No, I'm talking to the judge. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u117	I didn't hear a question there.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u118	Step closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u119	He's coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'm not making any sense. The case is being considered, well, let him consider it, but the judge can't give an answer right now as to how he's going to handle the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u121	Adam Ivanovich, I can give an answer because at the meeting, the court hearings were called by specialists from the State Treasury, from the State Financial Inspectorate, who explained according to a letter from the State Treasury about the conduct of the purchases and decided according to the applicable legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u122	I'm voting on the proposal to choose the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnick district of Barchuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[12:44:17]] For 176 Dear colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u123	50 regions in the hall. 50!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u124	I repeat, the remarks they made may sound, but from the judge's answer you've heard that the question is not really here. Igor Leonovich, what's the offer to the High Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u125	Indeed, such complaints from the district attorney and other officials were the subject of consideration by the Higher Qualifications Commission. The Higher Qualifications Commission concluded that the complaint of a judge’s violation of procedural law had been filed. I mean, us. does not refer to the competence of the Higher Qualifications Commission. Such actions, procedural actions, are examined in the procedural order of the higher court. That is, there is no basis for drawing a judge to disciplinary responsibility or other measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u126	Filipina, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u127	Thank you. My fellow Members, I very much ask you, let us now make a wise decision, return to voting for the appointment of this judge on an indefinite basis, since we have, in fact, withdrawn from that shameful practice when individual colleagues in the Supreme Council Hall have identified our positions on specific matters. And the judge before that, I take it, has nothing to do with it. Therefore, I ask you to return to the vote and act in accordance with the Act on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u128	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u129	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I support the previous proposal to return to the vote on this candidature. It was simply that people did not gather and vote positively.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u130	Who's in favour of coming back for the vote of this candidate, please vote. [[12:46:58]] For 202 We're not back. Then let's postpone consideration of this issue. We're not back on the subject. Let's put the question on hold for the next meeting. Order number 10701-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u131	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Bahchisarai District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Muntyan Olga Ivanovna; The Lutsky District Court of Volinsky district of Grusicki Andrija Igorovich; Tomakov District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Kondus Ludmila Andriyevna; Mariinsky District Court of the Donetsk Region of Lipchánsk, Sergey Mikolaiovich; Kuibyshew district court of Donetsk Batmanov Victoria Vitaliyevna; The Cherkas District Court of the Cherkas region of Ivanenko Igor Volodymirovich; The Novoseltsky District Court of the Czernovetsk Region of Pavlinchuk, Sergio Stepanović; The newly built district court of Chernigova Ovienka Yuri Kostinović; Darnicki District Court of Kyiv Koladenko Polin Leonidivna, Maria Petrovna's glass; Righteous District Court of Kiev Taran Natalija Grigorovna Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev Oscepian Tetjan Volodymyrovna The Wallin District Administrative Court of Xenjuk Andrija Jaroslavovich; The Luhansk District Administrative Court of Usakow Taras Sergiyovich; The Poltava District Administrative Court of Chesnokov Anna Alexandrovna; Shevchuk Svetlana Mikhaylovna, Provincial Administrative Court; Sumi District Administrative Court Sokolov Volodymyr Mikolayovich; Czernigów District Administrative Court Skalozub Jury Aleksandrovitch; the district administrative court of Kyiv Krotuk Alexander Volodymirovich; Mikhanyuk Maria Viktorovna, Regional Economic Court of Ravenna; Irina Grigorovna, Economic Court of the Chernigiv district of Antrashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u132	Yes, no remarks were made to the judges. It's easy, if there's a note, or I'll turn off the microphone to a particular judge. Please, Easy Mike. General conversations later.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u133	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Please allow me to express my opinion, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u134	I am governed by the Rules, in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u135	Please don't stop me from making a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u136	Who's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u137	Dear reporter! Dear Chairman Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk! When you tell me that when I mention the European Court of Justice's decision when it comes to the appointment of judges in Ukrainian courts, you think that's not the point, I disagree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u138	Thank you. Turn off the microphone. The thing is, we're looking at a completely different question right now. I'm voting on the motion to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the election of judges. [[Registration number 10701-1]] Please vote. [[12:50:35]] For 251 Decision taken. We're looking at Bill 10701-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u139	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Polack Olen Ivanovna; Kharkiv's Administrative Court of Appeal, Chalo Igor Sergiyovich; Kiev’s Court of Appeal Didichenko Marina Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u140	Yes, please. Yes, what are the notes to the surnames, only to the surnames. By decree, please, Easy, but by the last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u141	Thank you. Please, Sir Martinyuk, or Comrade Martinyuk, nowhere in the Rules do you have to tell the deputies what to talk about. I'll find out what I have to say without you. Now for the draft ruling. I'm pointing out to the Ukrainian citizens that we are now printing the decision to elect the courts. Some of these judges then make decisions, which then become the subject of a hearing before the European Court of Justice, as specifically in the Lucenka case, in the Timoshenko case. The European Court admits that Ukraine, the State, is in violation of the law of the European Convention on Human Rights, so that's entirely what we're looking at today. Because it is these judges, some of them, who can make unjust decisions tomorrow. So I ask Mr. Samsin once again to submit to the Supreme Council for the release of Judge Vuk and Kiriev, who in their decisions discredit Ukraine, the Ukrainian State, and Ukrainian justice. Please answer that particular question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u142	10701-2, the ruling is on the vote. Please vote. [[12:52:52]] For 259. Decision taken. Order 10701-3, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u143	Choose Ivanchenka Alexi Yuliyovich, formerly elected as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u144	Rule 10701-3 shall apply to the vote. Please vote. [[12:53:32]] For 257 Decision taken. Please, 10701-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u145	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk district of Bugrim Ludmila Mikolayevna, Stratejchuk Ludmila Zinovievna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u146	Question, just to the judges. Easy, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u147	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I only ask questions essentially. Dear Mr. Head of the Qualifying Commission, if you want to ask the question in fact, you will essentially. Two weeks ago, the Supreme Council elected your brother's judge. You think it's right, it's moral when you create a clan system when you're stretching your family into judicial organs, taking away the ability of children from simple families who have completed VUZ and have no ability to work through you, because you have a hairy hand, because you're pulling your relatives and you're denying yourself the ability to realize yourself in life to those who don't have relatives like you. And you stand there, you have the nerve to laugh. What are you laughing at? From the fact that you created a clan justice system in Ukraine? Did you know that in the 14th century, in Europe, selling judges were skinned alive? This is what you should do for bullying people today. And you're standing there laughing. You are your brother immediately, have him apply for resignation and all other mud relatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u148	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting bill number 10701-4. Please vote. [[12:55:36]] For 255 Decision taken. Order 10701-5, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u149	Choose judges on an untimely basis: the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region of Dmitrenko Mikol Ivanovich; The Voluntary District Court of the Donetsk district of Ovcinnikov Olga Sergiyevna; The Suvorov District Court of Odessa Shurupova Viacheslava Viktorovich; The Donetsk District Administrative Court of Christopher Andrija Borisovich; The economic court of the Kyiv district of Antonov Victoria Mikolayevna;
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u150	Order 10701-5. Carmazine, please, to whom?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u151	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders I have a question for Judge Dmitrenko, I have a question for Judge Ovičinnikov, for Shurupov, for Christopher and for Antonov. One question. At present, 50 national deputies from the Party of Regions, several, several, 51, were correcting me, a few of the Communists and a few others. I ask each of the judges. Will you believe that you have enough legitimacy if you are elected to violate the Constitution? And how do you feel about me being the representative of the opposition asking the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u152	I'm voting on decision 10701-5 on the election of judges. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u153	Adam Ivanovich! I asked the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u154	It's not in their jurisdiction to give an assessment to the Supreme Council. There is a Constitutional Court for this. Now, we're going to approve the Constitutional Court, you're going to ask a question. [[12:57:56]] For 253 I'll take the order. Project Regulations 10701-6. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u155	Select Lyubinetsky Mikola Volodymyrovich to serve as Judge of the Alushtine City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u156	Dutch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich! For Mr. Lubinecki Nikolai Vladimirovich was considered last time. We've been delayed. But we didn't figure anything out. Complaints are received from the residents of the Alushina region. And we're introducing him again today. I'm asking you to hold off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u158	Yes, please, Igor Leonovich, what is the position of the Higher Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u159	Well, I can report to the Supreme Council the situation that has arisen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u160	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u161	Pauline will say the same, we listen to the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u162	In order to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the inspection by the Ukrainian National Deputies Karmazin and Pavelenko at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 1 June 2012, with warnings about the election of Ljubinecki Mikli Volodymyrovich as judge, I would like to report the following. You know that the order of election is fixed by article 74 of the Court of Justice Act. On September 27, 2011, Lubinecki applied to the commission for its recommendation. In accordance with the law, the commission at its official web portal on September 30 was informed of the preparation of materials. And we also put an ad on October 20, 2011, in the newspaper Government Courier. According to a review of the candidate's report, the commission found that the Ukrainian President's decree of 31 July 2006 had been assigned to serve as Judge of the Alustin City Court for a term of five years. According to the Presidential Decree of 24 February 2010, the President's above-mentioned decree was annulled, but the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine decree of 7 September 2011 declared illegal the President's Order and Lubinetsky was reinstated as Judge of the Austin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The plenary meeting of the Supreme Council on June 21 was followed by comments. First. Lubinecki was released from the prosecutor’s office because of illegal acts. The other one. Facts of his possession of the Utes cooperative's assets with threat and blackmail have been established. Third. Lubinecki was involved in the 2006 suicide of a citizen of Koboljeva. The following is established on the basis of these statements. First. Lubinetsky worked for the Autonomous Republic of Crimea from January 25, 1984 to March 1, 2004. His last position is the Senior Prosecutor of the Crimes Investigation Department of the Prosecutor's Office of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In accordance with his decree of February 19, 2004, he was released from office and from the prosecutorial office at his own request in connection with retirement for years. The other one. In March 2012, the Jalta Public Prosecutor's Office, commissioned by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, carried out a review of Volkova's statement that in 1998 the head of the audit committee of Utes Lubinetsky made an unreliable decision by the audit commission, which Volkova, as the head of this cooperative, was accused of stealing the funds of the cooperative. On 30 March 2012, the Jalta Procurator’s Office issued a decision to refuse a criminal case against Lubinecki on the basis of article 6, paragraph 2, of the Criminal Procedure Code in connection with the absence and the conduct of the criminal offence. The third point. According to a report by the U.S. Attorney - General’s Office of the Republic of Ukraine on the fact that the Kobolje Public Prosecutor’s Office of the city of Sevastopol had investigated the criminal charge of Rusanov for part three of article 146 and part of the first article 120 and the judgment of the Yaltin City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crime of August 11, 2009, he was sentenced to 5 years ’ imprisonment. In the course of the investigation of a criminal case taking into account the conclusion of the repeated death of a complex court-psycho-psychatrical expert on 6 June 2008, a decision was issued to refuse a criminal offence against each individual of the Department of State Enforcement, Internal Affairs, the Austin City Council, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Alushta, including in respect of Lubinecki on the basis of article 6, paragraph 2, since their actions and suicidal behaviour were not a cause-and-effect relationship. Please note that, at the time of the Kobolje suicide, Lubinetsky worked in the prosecutor's office and had not yet been appointed judge. Already serving as Judge of the Alustin City Court in January 2007, following the commission of President Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich of the Higher Council of Justice within the limits of the powers conferred by law, a full and comprehensive examination of the circumstances set out in the addresses of the Permanent Representative of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Moskal and found ground for the discharge of Lubinecki from the post of Judge of the Austinsk City Court. When deciding on the question of recommending a candidate to a judge by a temporary commission in accordance with the requirements of the law, a review was carried out of the information about the candidate at the time of the judge’s appointment and the caseload was taken into account. The conditions set by law that would prevent him from recommending a judge are not established for us. I would like to point out that the question of his appointment as judge was repeatedly brought to the attention of the Higher Qualifications Commission. We've put off several times, we've gone to the scene, we've taken out all the materials that are both in the prosecutor's office and in the internal affairs department. As a result of the additional examination, no information was received by the commission to confirm the circumstances outlined by law that prevent the recommendation of a judge from being appointed on an indefinite basis. On June 12, 2012, the status of the candidate for the post of Judge Lubinecki in the reports of the Commission and the National Deputies was reviewed. This is all in our decision, and it's presented to you for consideration, you can get to know each other. To this day, the judge’s term of office has ended. We made a recommendation. Taking into account the results of the examination of the judge’s appointment, the level of his professional training, and the performance of the court’s term of office, we have concluded that we have no reason not to recommend him to take office. I am fully informing you that not only is the offer of a member of the High Council of Justice to be released for breach of oath today resolved. But this proposal will be considered by the High Council of Justice on July 11.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, please report to the factions for a minute. Sign up for what you want to say. Well, now they're going to write it down because you don't want one. Oh, please, Carmazin. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u164	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition Dear citizens of Ukraine, I am addressing you in connection with what you need to know about what is happening. I have before me the conclusion of the examination of the willingness to serve as judge of this person, signed by a member of the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine, honoring him by Mikulini, since March 27, 2012. The conclusion is that, as a result of the examination of the judge's office, it is untimely my view that because of its low moral and ethical qualities, the latter has obtained a very negative assessment from Ukrainian citizens that if elected by the judge, the citizen's faith in honesty, independence, impartiality and justice will be undermined indefinitely. I'll tell you what's criminal. by a court of law. Court rulings since 2009 have been confirmed that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u165	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u166	.the court's verdict is confirmed, it is noted that Lubinecki's actions regarding the liberation of land on the street of Sergeyev-Censky in Alushta became one of the factors that caused and deepened the frustration in Kobeleva, which led to suicide by throwing her out of the house.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u167	Thank you, thank you. It was a very wise judgment, surely, that made such a decision. There is no living man, there is no living man, and he writes what he thought. I see. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u168	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! Jaroslav Suhi, the parliamentary majority, I will sharpen on purpose, unlike the parliamentary opposition. I didn't hear a discussion of the judge's candidacy in this session room with such a questionable chauffeur before that. So I'm making a concrete and constructive proposal. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put this judge's candidacy to the vote, and the session room I ask you not to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u169	Yes, dear fellows, I'll use another proposal, a more faithful rule of the Rules. Given that we've asked this question several times, I'm the first one to vote, a signal vote for the election of a judge. Signal vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u170	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u171	Read the Rules. I'd like to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u172	Adam Ivanovich, this is for selective justice you do. Don't vote, it's selective justice. [[13:10:23]] For-0
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u173	The question is deferred. It's under review.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u174	Now put to the vote, it was a signal, read the Rules, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u175	Ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Anatolyevich, you've rested.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u176	Read the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u177	You've rested for two days, you've grown strong. Don't interrupt the chairman's news, the news.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u178	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u179	Yeah, that's why I'm saying don't interrupt, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u180	Put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u181	You have heard a report from the chairman of the High Commission that all your accusations have no place. This time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u182	That's not true.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u183	The other one. Because the question is on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u184	About the release.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u185	Since the question is being considered in another, in another commission, as it were, in the High Council of Justice, so when the decision is made, we will be with you to consider the matter. I'm inviting you now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u186	You have no right at this time to interrupt the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u187	Deputy Chief Justice of the Izovet Lydia Pavlovna, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, rule 10702.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u188	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones! The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 21 June this year, pursuant to section 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Article 126, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100 and 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to make appropriate submissions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges find that their actual will, foreign influence, or coercion in their decision to release has not been established. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: the Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kuchereva, Valentin Fedorovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Suma District of Smirnov Tamara Volodymyrovna, in relation to the application for resignation; Court of Appeal of Kharkiv Region: Panchenka Volodymira Anatoliyevich – in connection with the application for resignation and Silina Arkady Borisovich – in connection with the submission of the resignation application; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Volkov Volkov Love Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; The Equal Court of Appeal, Szczepansk Genius Antonovna, in connection with the application for discharge at your own request; Sevastopol Economic Court of Appeal Tkachenko Mikhail Ivanovich – in connection with the application for discharge at his own request; The Jankoya District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Kutanov Hanna Mikhaylovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The Lutsky District Court of Wallin County, Kalinovské Víra Stepanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. The Mikolai district court of the Mikolai district of Nikita, Julius Alexandrovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u189	I'm putting to the vote Order 10702 on the release of judges. Basically, it's a statement of resignation or dismissal at your own request. Please vote. [[13:14:42]] For 258. It's been decided. Order 10702-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u190	The Supreme Council of Justice, in accordance with paragraph 5, part five, article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 105 and 111 of the Law on the Judiciary, and the status of judges, article 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes the release of the Immortal Hennadi Leonidovich from the post of Judge of the Slovenian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region in connection with the violation of the oath, namely: for failure to respect his official duties, failure to notify the parties about the case, illegal review of the newly discovered circumstances and annulment of the decision. Thus, Judge Imminent, after four refusals by other judges, granted the application to review the decision under the new circumstances, accepted the fifth application, and annulled the legal decision of the court. The Court held a court hearing in the absence of any relevant and timely report on the time and place of the case, and decided to exclude Rybachuk as the defendant in a case that was not covered by a valid procedural law, thereby violating his right to judicial protection. All the facts of systematic misconduct of the judge are set at the meeting of the High Council of Justice on May 29, this year, and decisions have been made to apply to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 21, this year, the decision to release the Imminent Judge for breach of oath did not receive most of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part of section 5 of article 111 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, if the required number of votes of Ukrainian national deputies are not obtained with regard to the dismissal of the elected judge, a re-vote shall be held on an open-ended basis. On June 21, this year, the Supreme Council of Justice resubmitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the release of Hennady Leonidovich from the post of judge in connection with the violation of an oath on the basis of the same decision of the High Council of Justice on May 29 of this year. Yesterday, on July 4, the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine refused to grant the administrative order of the Imminent Hennady Leonidovich to declare an unlawful decision of the High Council of Justice of May 29 of this year to apply for his release from office of judges for a violation of an oath. There is no future in the Supreme Council Hall. But we received a telegram saying that yesterday he was given a report on the issue for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u191	I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council Order on the release of the judge at number 10702-1. Please vote. [[13:18:24]] For 251 It's an order. 10702-2.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u192	The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, articles 27 and 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes: the release of Lubashevski Viacheslav Polycarpovich from the office of judge of the Lviv Administrative Court in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him. The Higher Council of Justice has established that the judgement of the Obollonian District Court of Kiev of 19 September 2011 found Lubashevski guilty of committing the crime provided for in part five of article 27, part two of article 368 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the receiving of bribes and the sentencing of 5 years of deprivation of liberty to hold the judge for a term of 2 years and the confiscation of all property held in his possession. By the ruling of the Kyiv Court of Appeal on March 30, 2012, the judgment of the Obolon District Court of Kiev was left unchanged, that is, in effect. Please support the application of the High Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u193	I'm voting on the Supreme Council's ruling on the release of a judge at 10702-2. Please vote. [[13:20:10]] For 264 Yes, thank you. 10703 ruling, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u194	The Supreme Council of Justice asks in paragraph 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "For the Liberation of Judges" published in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the word "Anatoliyevna" should be replaced by the word "Antonovna". [[No. 9, article 61, 2011]] That is, there is an error in the publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u195	But this time will it be right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u196	We put it right, it was a technical error made by the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u197	I'm voting on the Supreme Council order to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number of Decree 10703]] Please be supportive. [[13:21:20]] For 257 Thank you. Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u198	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, the question of the election and the release of judges has been decided with you. So let us welcome those judges whom we have chosen with you today. [[Applause]] And we want them to be in our session room for only one reason, for reasons of promotion. We continue to consider the issues of second reading. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Migration Service]] [[Registration number 10268]] [[second reading]] Reported the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u200	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, is invited to consider in a second reading a draft of the Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning the powers of the central executive authority to ensure the implementation of State policy in the field of migration, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Olijnik. The essence of the bill is the following. In the process of reform, an appropriate presidential decree was established in December 2010 as well as the State Migration Service. The issue of the design and issuing of passports for Ukrainian citizens and passports for citizens abroad is included in its competence. In today’s legislation, however, these functions remain with the internal authorities. In particular, according to the State Department for Citizenship and Migration and Registration of Natural Persons, which was eliminated by the decision of Kabmin in March of last year. Thus, honourable colleagues have come up with a strange situation: when there is no authority already in the relevant Ministry of Internal Affairs, and legal authority has not yet been given to those who are to do so today, that is, the State Migration Service. It's very simple. As a result, there has indeed been a situation of legal uncertainty that has a negative impact on the security of citizens, of our citizens, of passports. And in principle, this bill is proposing to settle this conflict. The bill proposes to amend two legislative acts that regulate the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Immigration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the issuance of passport documents. I want to say right now that the committee worked with all the interested authorities, everything's completely agreed. It's totally fine. 20 amendments to the law were made. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, 2 revisions counted, 1 edited, 1 rejected. Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak, 13 amendments. 8 counted, 3 partially counted, 2 only rejected. Rubinsky, 2 adjustments are included. They are. Igor Fedorovich Sharov, 3 corrections. 1 is partial, 2 is negative. Thus, a total of 10 amendments were taken into account, 5 amendments were rejected, 5 amendments were partially taken into account. So after considering the bill at its meeting on June 21, 2012, the committee approved the recommendation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it in a second reading. I want to point out that the bill is being drafted without notice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u201	Thank you. Let's get some repairs. Sharov, 4 is rejected. Don't insist. Eight o'clock, Gritzak. But it is contrary to 116 articles. Same thing as the 10th. Carmazine. The 10th is rejected because it's in conflict with 116 articles. Please 10 revisions, Gritzak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u202	Dear Adam Ivanovich! 10 revisions. It is the same as the 19th Amendment. The 19th amendment is completely taken into account, and the 10th doesn't count. I'll read it. "In the second paragraph of paragraph 4, the words 'Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine' shall be replaced by the words 'central authority of the executive authority', which shall ensure the implementation of State policy in the field of migration, immigration and migration, including the resistance to illegal, illegal migration, citizenship, the registration of natural persons, refugees and other categories of migrants defined by legislation. Now with the State Migration Service, we've looked at it, it's just a technical mistake. The 10th has to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u203	Oleg Aleksandrovitch is, indeed, a colleague of Gritzak's right in what respect, that the 10th Amendment and the 19th are one to another. But the 10th is rejected, and the 19th is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u204	The committee doesn't object. We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u205	Do you mind?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u206	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u207	Then let's think of 10 as an amendment. Because really, the 10th and the 19th are identical. Well, technically, we'll be careful. Then let's vote for the 10th amendment, please support. [[13:27:21]] For 252 Supported. Yeah, 14th, Carmazin. Don't insist. 15th, Sharov. Don't insist. Everything else is accounted for. Is he insisting? Gray, 15th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u208	Reverend Adam Ivanovich, I'm not insisting, I'd like to inform you that there was a hard-on with the committee on this amendment. But in this case, I agree to the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u209	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u210	It's about the Family Code. We really discussed a lot and found a negotiated solution. Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, can I make another announcement?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u211	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u212	Not an announcement. I'd like you, your honor, to say this for the protocol. In the second part of the first part of article 4, in the line in the right column, the fifth paragraph of Amendment 3 of Grey Igor Fedorovich in the first sentence after the words "remove from the place of residence". [[I'm so detailed, because for the transcript]] Reason: This was a technical error in forming a fourth column. I mean, once again, if I may. In the second part of the first part of article 4, in the line in the right column, the fifth, the amendment 3 Grey in the first sentence after the words "delete" the words "away from the place of residence". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u213	No, it makes sense. She did.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, the administration of law has taken note without notice. The committee suggests that we accept it in the second reading and in general, I understand. Then I am voting to adopt the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the powers of the Ukrainian State Migration Service]] [[Registration number 10268]] Please vote. [[13:29:42]] For 252 Thank you. The law is passed. And you don't get separated. Next law, draft Law on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Discrimination in Ukraine. [[Registration number 10468]] Please, Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, the draft Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Discrimination in Ukraine is aimed at ensuring the realization of human rights and freedoms and has caused a wide social resonance. In view of this, the honourable colleagues who, at the Conciliation Council of Deputies meeting on 2 July this year, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights, Mrs. Lutkovska, raised the issue of sending this bill to the Council of Europe for an expert opinion, and in fact this expertise is already being carried out, if we say so. I would ask you not to consider this today and to give us the opportunity to work on it yet, because there are a lot of conflicting standards of resonance and we will work in a way that corresponds to Ukrainian realities and Ukrainian interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, there will be no objection to passing the bill, will there? None. Then we'll carry it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u218	We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation. [[Registration number 9747]] [[second reading]] Report to the Vice - Chief of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Morocco, Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u219	The distinguished colleagues, during the period provided for by the Rules, received a second reading of the Act by 19 amendments from the people's deputies. [[1947]] The Committee considered it. 11 amendments are proposed to take full account of nine amendments. Please support the Committee's position and adopt the law on second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u220	Carmazine, 1 correction. Not counted. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u221	I'm sorry, Adam Ivanovich. The Committee will accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u222	What the committee agreed, the table says is not counted. So please don't make much promises to Karmazin from the committee. 10th, the same. 13th, 17th. Everyone else is accounted for. The rule of law was marked with observations. The committee suggests that we accept the second reading as a whole. I propose a second reading and, as a whole, the Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on communications regulation. [[Registration number 9747]] Please vote. [[13:32:41.]] For 253 The law is passed. Now we should be looking at the joint investment bill, but even though the bill was passed on February 21st, the committee has not prepared for the second reading, so please bear with us the matter, because it is not ready, unfortunately. [[Registration number 9615]] We're looking at the draft Act on Emergency Medical Care. [[Registration number 10155]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Bachtiev Tetjana Dmitrovna Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u223	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, passed the bill on first reading on 17 May this year and voted by 240 members of the people. And the need for this bill and the adoption of the economic reform programme of the President of Ukraine for 2010-2014. The draft of the bill took into account the principles and best practices adopted in today's world for emergency medical care. Its adoption is supported by the Ministry of Health and the Association of Emergency Medical Workers. Well, the terrible numbers: 125,000 die in Ukraine without waiting for an ambulance, 8,000 Ukrainians die in an ambulance because the car shortage today is 4,000, and their equipment is not in line with modern standards. Therefore, the adoption of this bill is very and very important. A total of 200 amendments were made by the people's deputies. 185 amendments have been made to the comparative table. And I'm 63 myself, Karpuk 23, well, very many people's deputies, too. Thank you very much for the active attitude and understanding of the important issue. The second reading also takes into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. Of the 185 amendments tabled by the Committee, 118 were taken into account, 71 were taken into account, 47 were partially amended, and 67 were rejected. Drafting for second reading was considered in the Committee, and regardless of the political factions, all the people's members of the five factions of Parliament unanimously supported its adoption on second reading and in general as a law. It is therefore a great request: without a policy to consider an important very important bill, which will bring together an emergency medical vertical and will be the responsibility of the regional health authorities, of course, of local self-government. And the fact that we're bringing together number 103, 112 is very important because it's isolated today -- it's inconvenient and it doesn't lead to any efficiency, the emergency works separately, and the emergency works separately. But today, as long as we have 112 numbers formally, it doesn't work, and then we put it into a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u224	Yes, thank you. Let's get some repairs. 10th, Karpuk. Declined. Don't insist. Sharov, 11th. Don't insist. Carpupk 14th. Pavlovsky, 15th. Carpook, 22nd. Carmazine, 23rd. 24th, Pavlovsky. Carpuk, 25th and 26th. Carmazine, 27. Pavlovsky, 28. Karpuk, 29th. 30th, Carmazine. Pauline. Pavlovski, I'm sorry, 31st. 32nd, Carmazin. Carpupk 33rd. 34th, Carmazin. 35th, Pavlovsky. 36th and 37th, Karpuk. It's 38. 39th, Pavlovsky. 40th, Karpuk. 41st, Karpuk. Carmazine, 42nd. Pavlovsky, 43rd. 44th, Carmazin. Karpuk, 49th. Yes, Carmazin, 61st. Suskevich, 62nd. 64th Suskewicz. Pavlovsky, 65th. Suskevich, 67th. 70th is his. 72nd. Jojik, 79, 80s. Suskevich, 81st. 86th, Pavlovsky. Jojik, 87th. Suskevich, 91st. Jojik, 92nd. Carmazine, '97. Carpupuk, 102nd. Pavlovsky, 103rd. Pavlovski, 106th. Trophimenco, 121st. Carpupuk, 122nd. Carmagine, 125th, 126th. Karpuk-sharov, 127th. Baranov, 133rd, does not insist. 134th, Pavlovsky. 135th, Carmazin. 136th, Baranov. Jojik, 136th. Jojik, 148th. Jojik, his 157th. It's a 160, not an insistence. Carpook, 163. Jojik, 164th and 166th. Jojik, 181. The rest of the amendments are included. A bill with observations was called for by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee offers in the second reading and in general. I'm voting on the adoption of the Emergency Medical Care Act. [[Registration number 10155]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:40:53]] For 221 Not voted. Who's in charge of coming back? [[13:41:16]] For 233 We're back. I bet the vote on the proposal to adopt the Emergency Medical Care Act. [[Registration number 10155]] [[13:41:40]] For 239. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the specificity of education]] [[Registration number 10233]] [[second reading]] Reported to the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security by Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u225	Respectable colleagues, respected Adam Ivanovich, Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 3 July this year, reviewed the draft Act amending article 5 of the Act on Improving the Presence of Mining Labour. [[Registration number 10233]] After its adoption on first reading, five amendments were sent to the text of the bill by members of the people, one being taken into account in full and one in part. The proposed revision takes into account the main comments of the Scientific and Expert Management. People's MP. improves the situation with regard to children, which has been legally approved for non-competitive admission to certain higher and vocational training institutions. As a result of its consideration of the matter, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Act amending article 5 of the Act on the Promotion of the Prosperity of Mining Work, on second reading and generally as a law. And there's one proposal. The amendment made by the national deputy Pavel Petrovich Korge is in this room. Adam Ivanovich, there's a proposal, it's technical. The second part of this article is raised to the first part and the bottom part is lowered, i.e. the top part is lowered down. In doing so, we remove the horn that miners who have been working underground for at least three years have fallen into. This is the amendment the people's MP agrees with. In general, I would like with this amendment to adopt a bill that will allow the children of miners who have been injured by our miners to benefit from the concessional conditions of higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u226	Yes, wait, please. I don't see Corge doing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u227	Fifth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u228	Amendment to Korja 4 is taken into account. Kovalevsky 5's amendment is rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u229	That's Corge's 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u230	Well, there's no fifth amendment to Corge's comparative table?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u231	We don't change it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u232	There's no correction for Korja. I have a chart. Carmazine's 1st amendment. Partially counted. 2nd Amendment of Carmazine. Declined. The 3rd Amendment of Sharov. Don't insist. Declined. 4th Corge Correction accounted for. Yes, this amendment is included. It's counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u233	There's just a paragraph that's been changed, and the top part's down, and the article's not changing, Adam Ivanovich. The hats fall, which are three years old, which means they're in that fork. Let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u234	You're not saying it right. Because it's not about the paragraph. And here's the thing. Here's the first paragraph of "ships who have underground jobs." So where is this new paragraph? Not at all. Second paragraph, "marked persons after completion." None. There is, but it's still there. So it's not about the transfer, because there's nothing to move. It's a completely different story.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u235	Adam Ivanovich, she's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u236	It's not technical, it's not technical, if they listen to you say it's technical and they move paragraphs that don't exist, it's technically wrong, because as you say, there's no bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u237	The MP's giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u238	It is good that the MP gives, but the MP should give before that, not during the consideration of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u239	Well, put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u240	I can't do that because it violates the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u241	Adam Ivanovich, there's nothing there, I say again, it's technical.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u242	If it has nothing to do with it, we will vote on what is in the table if it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u243	But, considering.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u244	And so we vote on what is in the table, and more so, the Legal Authority has called for it without notice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u245	That's where the miners go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u246	And where the committee was watching them go. You've taken Corge's amendment into account, she's accounted for, and now the East Korge is making another amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u247	Same amendment, we're just remodeling.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u248	But there's nothing moving there. Read it. I've read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u249	There's no sin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u250	Of course, there is no sin, only the law is being changed immediately, in the course of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u251	Adam Ivanovich, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u252	What should I vote on? The law to vote? I'll put the law to the vote now. It's a piece of paper that means nothing to me. I'm sorry. We can make a second read again. Don't make a head clown out of anything you want, right now, right away, right away. Is it the second time we have voted in the paper that the committee has proposed?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u253	No, you can't vote like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u254	You can't do that, then don't vote! I'm voting on the committee's proposal, "No comments", the committee proposes to adopt the second reading and the whole Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act, as proposed by the committee. [[on the specificity of education]] [[Registration number 10233]] Please vote. [[13:48:19]] For 262 Dear colleagues, don't be offended, there's some sort of order. Next draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on citizenship. [[second reading]] [[Registration number 9728-1]] He was to report to the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich. The bill was adopted as the basis of May 22. Please. Please, Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u255	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, we just held a committee meeting at 12 o'clock, where we decided to recommend it for adoption in a second reading and in general. The table is now in the legal office. We were supposed to do it yesterday, but remember, I was talking. So we recommend it, and in general there are virtually no questions about it. But he's just technically in a visiting law school right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u256	Okay, then we're putting it off. We have already postponed some of the Act on Amendments to Certain Laws on Employment. Let's do this one, then let's see how the table is ready. Yes. We're looking at a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Individuals to eliminate the payment of information from the Single State Register. [[Registration number 9729]] [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship of Chechtov Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u257	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the bill is really small but very important. But because there are separate points that need to be fully harmonized, they need to be synchronized with the Cabinet of Ministers. Please postpone consideration of this bill for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u258	I'm voting on the proposal to postpone Bill 9729, to postpone its consideration. Please be supportive. [[13:51:01]] For 261 Thank you. The bill has been transposed. We're looking at a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on State Tax Service and on Administrative Reform in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10224]] [[second reading]] Reported to the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u259	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill, submitted by the People’s Deputy Miroshnichenko, reached 10224, making 119 proposals for the second reading. Of these, there are total, partial or essentially 105 proposals. 14 suggestions are rejected, and the committee’s reasons for such a decision are also presented in the table. That is why there is full agreement between the bill and the Ministry of Finance, the State Tax Office. As is the case primarily with the tax service, which is repealed by the Law on the State Tax Service, and in fact a new separate chapter is being created, which defines all the provisions regarding the functioning of the State Tax Service of Ukraine. All positions are justified, agreed, taken into account. There is only one complement. It is related to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers decided yesterday at its meeting to introduce a draft law relating to the cost of transporting passengers by Intersity Plus trains in order to pay VAT and make the tickets cheaper. This will cost the wider population tickets and stimulate the development of internal transport. So I'm also going to do the stenographer separately, Adam Ivanovich, and I'm going to say this. So we don't put this law to a vote tomorrow. Because there is such a request from the government. I have this rule written down, and I ask her to vote separately. That is, we are ready to consider in the second reading and receive in general. Thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u260	Yes, please. Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u261	Yeah, for the stenographer. It is necessary to supplement the bill with additional revisions. Subparagraph 195.1.3., paragraph 195. Article 195 of the Ukrainian Tax Code should be supplemented by a new sub-paragraph "g" of the following content: "Services for the transport of passengers to fast-track Intersity Plus trains." All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u262	Yeah, that's it. But here there are serious observations by the General Legal Authority. And maybe better, let's just look at the laws. It's not in the Tax Code to write what structural units and so on, because we have a separate law where everything is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u263	And we're canceling it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u264	And so it will be, and so it will be, Vitali Juryovich, that there will be two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u265	No, no, no, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u266	One structure will be written in the Tax Code, although the Tax Code to the structure, in my opinion, has nothing to do with it, should have a bearing on taxes. And the second is about the Tax Service Act. That's where you have to write it all: what is the organ that does what and what is responsible for?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u267	Adam Ivanovich, I'll comment. That's an absolute good point. The only thing is, in the Final Positions of this bill, the Tax Code, we're canceling the Act on the State Tax Service. Thus, all provisions regarding the functioning, regulation, and administration of the State Tax Office and departments are transferred to the Ukrainian Tax Code. This, by the way, is also done in the Customs Codex. Hence, the Customs Code contains separate chapters that regulate the customs work. That's why we're bringing it together and actually this is, well, this general position and the Ministry of Justice and the President's Administration, so that it's all defined in a separate system document called the Tax, State Tax Code of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u268	Vitaly Yuriovich, I support you 100%. But then all the laws relating to the tax service should be incorporated into the Tax Code. Then it's the right thing to do. None of the laws that apply to the tax service should act alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u269	Yes, it is. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u270	It's got to be in the Tax Code. That would be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u271	Yes, it is. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u272	Yes, please, I'll bet. The legal administration of the remark expressed the essence of which I said some of them. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in the second reading and in general and taking into account the amendment of the Homutinnik Act amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine. [[on State Tax Service and on Administrative Reform in Ukraine]] [[Registration number 10224]] Please vote. [[13:56:56]] For 262 I'm already working. The law is passed. We should now consider the draft Law on State Lotteries in Ukraine. We haven't arrived yet, yet, a table in the Legal Department has arrived. Let's see what the situation is. I'll continue for 15 minutes. The same applies to Bill 9428, the draft Law on Depository Accounting of Securities. The chart's not here yet. But, Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick, 9428 is going to be a table? She's in the Legal Department or she's not ready, 94. In law school. Okay. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on known registration of means of transport]] [[Registration number 9209]] [[second reading]] The head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u273	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! Ukraine's draft law on the introduction of certain Ukrainian legislation on the notorious registration of means of transport, introduced by the Ukrainian national deputy Vasilek Sergey Volodymyrovich. [[Registration No. 9209 of 18 January 2012]] On June 8, 2012, a first reading plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held. The Committee on Transport and Liaison, in accordance with the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, revised the bill and introduced it in a second reading. A detailed draft of the bill was discussed at a meeting of the committee on June 21, the current year. During the preparation of the project for second reading to the committee, proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies Vasilka, Carmazin, whose content is shown in the comparative table. The proposals made by the Ukrainian national deputy are not included in the comparative table, such as those later established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the period of registration. Of the nine proposals made, the committee suggests that four be included in the table. The project was launched without notice by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority. As a result of the discussion at the meeting, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading and the whole draft of the Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the notorious registration of funds. [[Registration number 9209]] Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-05-m0.u274	But there's no microphone. Dear colleagues, I'm informing you. Yesterday's and today's power outages don't apply to the Supreme Council's administration, but generally throughout the city of the system, that's the city's problem, not our internal one, so there's no blame for the administration. The hospital must have done some damage, and there was more. Let's take a look at the amendments. All the corrections except one: 3rd, 6th, 8th and 9th, Carmazin, are included. He doesn't insist on them. I would ask, the law is in place without any notice, I would ask that, honourable colleagues, actively support the Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine. [[on known registration of means of transport]] [[Registration number 9209]] Please vote. [[14:01:53]] For 264 Thank you. The law is passed. With the chapter "second reading" we're almost done with you. Here we have four bills left after lunch, if we have a comparative table ready. Let's try to make the next election. Please, I invite you to the rostrum of the Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government of Kazinuk Aleksandr Rostislavovich. I continued the meeting for 15 minutes. Please, Kasenjuk. You don't? This is the decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Yellow Head, the Reschetil district of Poltavščina. Please vote. [[2:02:59]] For 246 Dear colleagues, even without music, but 246 are. The election is scheduled for September 9. 10658-1: Kumanov Rural Leadership Elections. [[Gossip district of Winnitztina]] Please vote. [[14:03:34]] For 262 A decision has been made. Decree 10658-2: the next election of the Kostuvative Rural Head. [[The Brotherly Region of the Mikolai Region]] Please vote. [[14:04:13]] For 261 A decision has been made. Rule 10658-3: In addition to the election of Roxolanov. [[Odiopolska Odištena]] Please vote. [[14:04:38]] For 261 A decision has been made. Decree 10658-4: the successive elections of the Roshanov village head. [[Kielmenecki district of Cherniewice]] Please vote. [[14:05:03]] For 259. It's an order. Order by number, draft Decree 10658-5: the appointment of the head of Michalchov. [[The township of Ivano-Frankiv district]] Please vote. [[14:05:34]] For 256 It's an order. Draft Resolutions 10658-6: Assignment of the Vijsian Rural Head Elections [[The Cossacks of the Ternopil region]] Please vote. The dry one begs a lot. [[14:05:58]] For 256 It's an order. Draft Decree number 10658-7: the appointment of consecutive elections of the Shiroki Rural Head. [[Zacarpathian region of Graduation]] Please vote. [[14:06:23]] For 260 It's an order. Project Regulation 10658-8: Assignment of the consecutive elections of the Peaskey Rural Head. [[Yasinovat district of Donetsk region]] Please vote. [[14:06:48]] For 259. It's an order. Project Regulation 10658-9: Assignment of the Ivangorod Rural Head Elections [[Ichnyan district of Chernigiv region]] [[14:07:14]] For 255 It's been decided. Draft Decree number 10658-10: the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Trieste-Novoselian Rural Head. [[Vassilkovsky District of Kyiv]] Please vote. [[14:07:41]] For 258. It's an order. Draft Decrees 10658-11: the appointment of the next election of the Ladigov Rural Head. [[Starocostinian district of Hmelnitsk Region]] Please vote. [[14:08:08]] For 259. A decision has been made. Draft Resolution 10658-12: on the appointment of the successive elections of the Skorchen Rural Head. [[Skorchen village council of the Volin region of Gorokhiv]] Please vote. [[2:08:32]] For 263 A decision has been made. 10658-13: the election of the Farbovan village head. [[Jagotin region of Kyiv]] Please vote. [[14:08:59]] For 259. A decision has been made. Decree 10658-14: the appointment of the successive elections of the village head of Shevchenkov. [[Red Army City Council of the Donetsk Region]] Please vote. [[14:09:26]] For 257 Copy that. Draft Decrees 10658-15: the appointment of the consecutive elections of Priville's head. [[Deaf area of the Sumskie region]] Please vote. [[14:09:57]] For 254 A decision has been made. Project 10658-17: the next election of the Great Obobrinian Rural Head. [[The Red Plain of the Suma Region]] Please vote. [[14:10:23]] For 255 Decision taken. Project 10658-18: the next election of Alexiyev's head. [[Pervomia region of Kharkiv]] Please vote. [[14:10:46]] For 257 Decision taken. Project 10658-19: the next election of the Collodzian Rural Head. [[Krasnogvard district of Crimea]] Please vote. [[14:11:14]] For 258. A decision has been made. Project 10658-16: The winegrower's head of the election. [[The Fifth District of Dnipropetrovsk]] Please vote. [[14:11:38]] For 254 Copy that. Project 10658-20: In addition to the elections of the Homintian Rural Head. [[Romania’s Suma Region]] Vote. [[14:12:02]] For 256 A decision has been made. 10658-21: in addition to the elections of the New Magyarian Rural Head. [[Zapiliv district of Kharkiv region]] Please vote. [[14:12:29]] For 256 A decision has been made. 10658-26: Teterian Rural Head Elections. [[Jaskow district of Cherkas region]] Please vote. [[14:12:51]] For 257 Copy that. 10658-27: round-the-clock elections of the Renius Village Head. [[The Congregational Region of Ternopils]] Please vote. [[14:13:13]] For 257 Copy that. 10658-28: In addition to the election of the Barradian village head. [[Coastal Zacarpathic Region]] Vote. [[14:13:36]] For 261 Copy that. 10658-32: Bukovsky village head. [[Skuri district of Kyiv region]] Please vote. [[14:14:02]] For 260 Copy that. Project 10658-22: Bologna Rural Head. [[Danube Region Hmelnitsk Region]] Please vote. [[14:14:31]] For 257 Copy that. 10658-23: Zaliski Rural Head. [[The People’s Region of the Žitomir Region]] Please vote. [[14:14:52]] For 259. Copy that. Project 10658-24: In addition to the elections of Lippunkovsky Rural Head. [[Golovanov district of Kirovograd]] Vote. [[14:15:14]] For 258. Copy that. 10658-25: Dutch village head. [[Kivertskie District of Volinsk Region]] [[14:15:35]] For 260 Copy that. 10658-29: Head of Lichkov. [[Magdalena District of Dnipropetrovsk]] Please vote. [[14:15:56]] For 260 Copy that. 10658-30: Krasten village head. [[The Red Army Region of the Donetsk Region]] Vote. [[14:16:16]] For 256 Copy that. 10658-31: Kuibyszewski Rural Head Elections. [[Helanic region of Mikolai region]] Vote. [[14:16:37]] For 254 Copy that. 10658-33: Kuznetsovo-Michaelian village head. [[Thelmanov region of the Donetsk Region]] Vote. [[14:16:58]] For 255 10658-34: Red Luck Head. [[The Gaddaic Region of Poltava]] Please vote. [[14:17:18]] For 254 Copy that. 10658-35: Anatolovian head election. [[Beresov district of Odessa]] Please vote. [[14:17:40]] For 256 Copy that. 10658-36: consecutive elections of Koločava Rural Head. [[Migirski district of Zakarpatski district]] Please vote. [[14:18:01]] For 254 Copy that. 10658-37: election of the Friendly Village Head. [[Oleuvian Region of the Žitomir Region]] Please vote. [[14:18:23]] For 254 Copy that. 10568-38: the election of Chaplin village head. [[Dnipropetrovsk oblast]] Please vote. [[14:18:43]] For 249 Copy that. 10658-39: Elections of the Novodari Village Head. [[Rovinj City Council of Lugansk Region]] Please vote. [[14:19:06]] For 247 Copy that. 10658-40: Kudriavtsev village head of the Basilov region of Mikolaiiv region. Please vote. [[14:19:27]] For 252 And 10658-41: the appointment of the Alubkin city head election. [[Yaltin City Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] 10658-41. Please vote. [[14:19:54]] For 257 Decision taken. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
