ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, invited and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[10:01:13]] There are 249 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of John Mikolaiovich Mirzny. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Allow me to provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on July 5. We discussed 78 issues of the agenda with you yesterday. As a result of their consideration, 31 laws and 74 decrees were passed, 6 bills were passed on the basis, 3 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative, 2 bills and 1 draft decree were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 4 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 1 law has been passed to the committee and 3 laws have been rejected. Honorable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on Friday, we have 30 minutes to announce our requests. Let me announce the questions that have come. Sergey Pavlenko to the President of Ukraine regarding the misconduct of the head of the Mižgir district government administration of the Zakarpat district of Vasil Szur regarding the dismissal of the chief physician of the Mižgir district hospital of Vasil King. I'm voting on a motion to support a request. [[10:03:22]] For-29 The offer is not supported. Eugene Zarkov to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney-General on the protection of the honour and dignity of Ukrainian citizens as the highest social value, as well as the non-demeanour of the representatives of the Hagau people and the invocation of those responsible. Eugene Zarkov to the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on Financing for Capital Repair and Reconstruction of the Courier and Health Complex of the Odessa Region. Jury Karmazin to the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, for the non-derogation of the central city hospital of Borislav Lviv Region and for the annulment of the unlawful decisions of the Lviv district government administration, which are in grave conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine and aimed at the illegal reduction of the network of state and municipal health institutions in Borislav, resulting in a grave violation of the right of citizens to receive adequate medical care and the criminal responsibility of officials of the Lviv district administration, in accordance with part 2 of article 184, part 3 of article 365 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine for the adoption of the said decisions. Lilia Grigorovich to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child to issue a passport for a citizen of Ukraine Bari Shaversian. Sergey Greenewecko to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Attorney General of Ukraine for the restoration of the constitutional rights of a citizen. Jury Karmazin to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine, The Attorney General of Ukraine for the restoration of the violated rights of miners in Donetské, Lugansk and Dnipropetrovsk regions to social protection in respect of the failure to comply with the provisions of the Mining Law of Ukraine to ensure the rights and social guarantees of workers in mining enterprises, and the use of response measures. Well, then you have to add "Lviv and Volin region," because there are mines there too. Eugene Talisheva and Jury Karmazin joined the Ukrainian Supreme Council for Human Rights, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine for the restoration of the constitutional rights of citizens of Borka's villages and the First Level Snake Region of Kharkiv Region for the provision of adequate medical care, which have been ignored by measures to optimize health facilities, and the responsibility of officials of public authorities in accordance with part 2 of article 184, part 3 of article 365 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code for the adoption of decisions by which a short-term existing network of health institutions has been established. Andrija Škila to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the adoption of measures to prevent the destruction of three architectural monuments in the historic centre of Kiev, on the street of Pyrogova, 2 and Bogdan Hmelnickýk, 37-B, and to ban the illegal construction of nearby buildings. Valerija Baranov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to bring legislation in line with local self-government rules on the formation of tariffs for services from the export of household waste. Vasil Gritzak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the problem of damage to Ukraine's State budget and the threat to Ukraine's national security. Vasil Spak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to simplify the mechanism for receiving subsidies for the cultivation of young cattle. Victor Sinchenk to the Prime Minister for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the road in the area of Butac-Jazlovac of the Butchik region of Ternopil. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Kirovograd District Administration, the Head of the Kirovograd District Council for an immediate response to the appeal of a citizen of Vagan Khachatrán, who lives in the village of Zlinka Maloviski district of Kirovograd, regarding signs of illegal actions by local authorities and possible support for the "reider" actions by individual law enforcement officers of the Kirovograd region. Oksana Bilozer to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the appropriateness of the transfer of inter-species missile-arthillery weapons specialties, as well as the deployment of the Scientific Centre for Combating the Use of the Land Army to the task of the President of Ukraine with regard to the establishment of the military academy in Odessa. Natalia Kraljevska v Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of socio-cultural objects in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, in particular the first garrison building of officers in Bilgorod-Dnistrovské Odessa district and established on its basis by the Young Military and Patriotic Club "Desantnik" and the collective of sports dance "Experence". Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, is actively improving the schedule of traffic, returning available trains and properly satisfying the existing passenger path at Smordine Station in the city of Trieste of Suma Region. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of payment of arrears from salaries to the employees of the budgetary institutions and organizations of the village of Ponornice of the region of Czernigów. Vladimir Danilenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine paid extra subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine to complete the construction of the Grandpisar Central District Hospital in Sumska District for the proper medical protection of citizens. Vladimir Makienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of effective measures to prevent and eliminate the consequences of the environmental disaster caused by the operation of the Mikolai Polish Agricultural Plant, the Society with a limited responsibility "Rusal". Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the collection of floods and shore-stressing measures to the Limbo of the village of Kolocava-Gorb of the region of Mižgorje, and to carry out an objective audit on the efficiency of the budget costs allocated to the work since 2000. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the rehabilitation of the hospital in order to provide residents of the villages of Klepachi, Novachih, Shishaka of the Choral Region of Poltava with adequate medical care. Eugene Kirilczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review and resolution of the issue of changes to the state registration regarding the preservation of radiological departments in the structure of the Ministry of Health’s sanepidemi service. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for delaying the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine under the state-wide Drinking Water programme of Ukraine for the construction of a water supply in the village of the Lutsky region of the Volin region. John Stoyk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-closure of the therapeutic department of the Grimail Municipal Hospital of the Husatin district of Ternopil. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for State support for agricultural producers of the country, by paying compensation for agricultural costs that have been incurred as a result of adverse weather conditions. Igora Skini to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crime on the inactivity of the Gasprinian Village Council in the head of Oleg Earth. Marina Perestenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the sewers that are on the balance of the Crimean geophysical expedition in the Simferopol region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Mikli Kravchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on preventing the export of fire-fighting products to the Ukrzalnica. Paul Mouchcan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper exercise by the Consumer Protection Inspectorate in Kiev of its tasks regarding State control over the enforcement of consumer rights legislation. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine for the Protection of Land Rights (Pai) of residents of the Yalosovecka Rural Council of the Horol region of Poltav region. Sergei Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for violation by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of the rights of military personnel to obtain housing. Sergey Chrapova to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the non-payment of arrears from wages to employees of the Open Share Association "South Radio Plant". [[The City of Yellow Waters]] Stephen Dawimuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the violation of Ukrainian legislation in the field of state intellectual property administration. Sergey Tereshuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the reconstruction of the water network and construction in the village of Potash Mankow district of Cherkas region. Jury Crook to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund for the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters in the city of Reni Odessa District on 19 May 2012. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the repair and reconstruction of the sewer collectors of the city of Slavyansk. [[Kasinuka, Horbatjuka, Potapova]] Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to finance the construction of a platoon in the village of the town-type Sves of the area of Sumpile, within the framework of the budget programme "The Drinking Water of Ukraine". [[The mosquito, Zvarič, Evtuhova]] Sergey Tereshuka to First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of land to social workers in the village of Kamyany Bridd of the region of Cherkas region. Anatolia Yagoferov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the calculation of the pension of the disaster-restrictor for CAES Alexia Bondarenko. Mikoli Shershun to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, for the purpose of clarifying, in accordance with the current legislation, the way of a fair recalculation of pensions to the inhabitants of the city of Sarna of the Rivna district of Alexija Yakoubovich. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine-Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Minister of State of State of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the threat to life and health of people as a result of the numerous daily flights of private aircraft over the territory of the lands of associations of gardeners and gardeners of Avangard, Chemik, Geologist and others in the town of Bila Church of Kiev. Tarasa Steckowa to the Head of the Commission to the President of Ukraine on the issue of citizenship with regard to the re-examination of information and copies of documents relating to the citizen of Dmitr Salamatin. Bogdan Hubski to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, First Deputy Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the Ordering of the Conditions of Paying and Payment of Allowances to Preschool Officers. Valerija Baranova to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine on possible solutions to the problem that arose in the Dmitry Rural Council of the Berdian region of Zaporozhye, in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Tax Code. Mikoli Shershun to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the transfer of Watersbury to the municipal property of Sarna with the aim of providing quality water to residents of the city and to the microregion of the Research Station of the Plains Region. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the work of Interves and Alef companies in the use and storage of fumigants. Sergey of the Undersecretary of the Interior of Ukraine to provide the citizen Anton Basovski with information on the confirmation of the hours worked during his work as the windshield of the consequences of the Chernobyl AES accident. Ulysses Mistpane to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of the MP's request to organize work to conduct a special examination of educational information. Jaroslav Jojik to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the status of sorting the procedure for providing information on the absence of production in Ukraine of equipment analogues. Vladimir Karpuk to the Head of the External Intelligence Service of Ukraine on providing information on the status of the Lonar sector in Volina and the prospect of foreign investment. Groups of National Deputies to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, the Executive Committee of the Mikolai District Council, the Kyiv City State Administration, the Bologna District in Kiev State Administration, the Holy District in Kiev State Administration, the Delhi District in Kiev State Administration, the Solomonian Regional Administration in Kiev State Administration, the Pecher Region in Kiev State Administration, the Chief Administration of Transport and the relationship of the Kiev City Public Administration with regard to the need for an independent review of the appeal of the Road Safety Association regarding the need to take appropriate measures to improve the safety of road traffic, the repair of the road and the creation of conditions for the safety of walking zones. [[The track, Bondica, and others. Total 6 deputies]] Groups of National Deputies to the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the issue of full debt to the Pension Fund of Ukraine and the elimination of the requirements under the current Ukrainian legislation on compulsory state pension insurance by the Association of the Ukrainian National Committee of the International Chamber of Commerce for the past 10 years. [[Bondica, Lithuania, and others. Total 4 deputies]] Katerina Vaszczuk and Oleg Zarubinsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improper investigation by the Prosecutor's Office and the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Žitomir area of criminal proceedings on the occasion of a road accident that resulted in injuries and the death of a citizen of Tetjana Sevruk. Jury Crook to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, and statements by a number of individuals who threatened the life and health of Ukrainian citizens. Vladimir Lešchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the establishment of persons involved in the killing of a resident of the village of Gryczek Talalaiów in the Chernigiv region of Grigory Fat. Vladimir Moysik to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the Cologne experimental plant Prute and other debts of this company. Valery Ramez to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of citizens' rights in the liquidation of the Vatutino Repair and Mechanical Plant of Vatutino Cerkas region. Anatolia Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal inaction of officials of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, which is to fail to exercise proper control over the enforcement of the legislation on the protection of economic competition and to cause significant damage to the interests of the State, legal persons and citizens. Anatolia Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine regarding the opening of a credit line in Gazprombank, which threatens to cause substantial material damage to State interests, and the improper response of the relevant competent authorities to the actions noted. Andrija Škila to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the complaint by the well-known architect Igor Podolak about the groundless violation of his criminal case and the inaction of the prosecutor's authorities in bringing responsibility to those involved in the falsification of his signature. Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine of the resonance killing of Vladimir Kotelnicky and his mother 15 years ago. Arsenija Yatsenuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the adoption by the State Property Fund of Ukraine of a series of orders that violate the Ukrainian law on the valuation of property, property rights and professional evaluation activities in Ukraine and the rights of thousands of assessors to carry out professional evaluation activities. Valentina Matvijeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for a gross violation of effective legislation in the granting of land to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and her repeated attempts to rebuild the construction of a multi-story residential building along the route of Vinegradny, 4, the Pecher district of Kiev. Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the constitutional rights of citizens by officials of the Tachiv District State Administration of the Zakarpat region. Vasil Czerny to the Attorney General of Ukraine for lack of proper response to the numerous complaints and claims by residents of the city of Dnipropetrovska Yulia Bilcán to the law enforcement authorities of the Dnipropetrov region for crimes committed against her by a group of persons. Valerija Beviz to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Viennese District State Administration for the use of effective response measures in connection with the illegal removal of the Vinicki district government administration of the citizen’s territory, Sergey Szčetinina, an area of 135 acres [135 ha] in the villages of Majdan and Sloboda-Dashkovecka in the Winnicki district of Vinnicki district, which resulted in illegal possession of the territorial community, destruction of a large part of the forest plantation, damage to the water fund, and damage to material damage. Vasila Wondernova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to pay off the arrears of the employees of Spillover. Skin Plant Society with limited responsibility with foreign investment in Spillover city of Ivano-Frankowska. Victoria Demyanczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for misconduct against Ukrainian citizen Vladislav Berlinsky, who was a member of the Regional Election Commission of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the town of Bobrinec, in the region of Bobrinecki, in Kirovograd. Vitalia Zharavsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the activities of the Ministry of Education and Science, youth and sport of Ukraine to collect salaries when entering the data into the Single National Electronic Database on Education, the proper protection of the data, and so on. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the existence of a crime in the actions of a citizen of Valentina Picalo, who misused her trust, illegally seized the funds of residents of the village of Shisaka in the region of Poltava. The Gennady of Moscal to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Odessa District Prosecutor's Office, signs of corruption in the actions of officials of the Odessa City Council, in particular the Odessa City Head, Alexia Kostusev, and officials of the Communion Company, the Market of Imports. Eugen Dobrak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Zitomir District State Administration, on the need for urgent measures to ensure the constitutional right to housing for citizens of the village of Stepok Andrushew district of Žitomir district. Eugene Chago to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the inappropriate response to the parliamentary appeal regarding the handling of the cases of credit card investors. Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts contained in the statement made by the head of Bilyawiev District Environmental Organization "Delta" on environmental pollution and health damage of about one and a half thousand citizens and immediate response measures. Natalia Kraljevsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the delay and delay in the investigation of a criminal case filed by Sergio Kris, a resident of the village of Kirové Odessa. Lilia Grigorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for private employees of the company VIP-AVTOS, because of the fact that they were being acquired by fraudulent means by buyers. Olega Láška to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of a criminal case against officials of the Society, with limited responsibility for "Specbudresurs" for fraud with financial resources of residential investors on the street of Nagorny 18/16 in Kiev. Alexander Dubov to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inappropriate response to the parliamentary request for illegal acts and violations of Ukrainian legislation by prosecutors and the illegal seizure and search of the public reception of the Ukrainian national deputy in Ishmael, Odessa. Oleg Laska to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to investigate criminal cases improperly against officials of the ALBank Stock Exchange, who have cheated and paid thousands of dollars to their investors and creditors. Peter Cibenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal actions of officials in the city of Kamyanec-Podilski from the theft of state funds on a particularly large scale designed to build a trolleybus connection. The branch of the U.S. Attorney General's Office on the deliberate delay in the liquidation of Krasnodoncarbon and Krasnodonshakhtobud enterprises and the appointment of their successors, resulting in violations of article 43 of the Mining Act. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Government Administration, on the return of illegally decommissioned funds from investors and citizens serving in the Stock Exchange Company "Savedbink". [[Department 0199 in Dnipropetrovsk]] Julius Kovalevski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the gravity and infringements of a criminal case committed by the commission of an accident, which resulted in the death of a citizen, Mikhailo Suhaykhi, and the injuries suffered by other participants in the accident. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the inappropriate response to parliamentary requests and appeals, and possible violations by law enforcement authorities in the handling of Vasil Hudinac’s complaint. Gregory Omelchenka to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine to give a legal assessment of the actions of the Presidents of Ukraine and other officials who have signs of the crimes and actions of Leonid Kuchma, who helped Paul Lazarenko to order and organize the killings of national deputies Eugene Szczerbán and Vadim Gethtman, and to commit other crimes, to bring guilty persons to criminal responsibility and to stop political insinuations around these cases. Alexander Steshenko to the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for the administration of the courtroom of the Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv, where the case of EEU is heard at the hands of Yulia Timoshenko. [["The only energy systems in Ukraine."]] Andrija Pavlovski to the Head of the National Penitentiary Service of Ukraine for the restoration of the security of the inmates of the SIZ, of the number of TB patients, of a separate diet. Bogdan Hubsky, head of the Cerka District State Administration for the School Bus for the School School School of the village of Pistane in the Zelotani district of Cherkas region, according to the school bus program. Victor Sinchenk to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the implementation of the Framework Agreement between the Lviv Regional State Administration and the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the construction of a school in the village of Drogbytsky district of Lviv district. Oleg Zarubinsky to Kharkiv city head about the timeliness and quality of repairs in residential buildings that are in an emergency. Helen Netecko to the head of the Crimean Department of the State Enterprise of the Transnistrian Railway on the need to take immediate action to restore the power train stop at the Elevatorna Krasnogvard district. So, honourable colleagues, I've announced 143 parliamentary requests to various authorities. Here we have a number of statements by deputies: Karmazina, Yavorowski, two statements, Kirilenko, Seminoga, Laška, Šlemka – about dissatisfaction with the reply to the parliamentary request. But we've been using it for 30 minutes to make inquiries, so unfortunately there's no time to deal with these issues. Dear colleagues, the list of issues that are proposed for discussion, for decision-making today, you have. Let us go to their consideration. The question is: The statement made by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Lithuania. Dear colleagues, do we need to discuss this claim with the faction leaders?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u2	You're not the faction manager yet, I'm sorry. You don't? Is it? Then I'd like you to sign up for three minutes from the faction. Yes, dear colleagues, I don't understand if you are. Please hold and record again. Coming up for a statement from the factions, please sign up. Yes, please, Praslov. Ephraim, please. And you're at the rally.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u3	Adam Ivanovich, first of all, the system works, first of all you asked to register, I said "please" and I kept it on the list all the time. The second time they asked me to register, I think maybe "for," the "against" computer is working, "for" is holding -- the same thing, not on the list either. So I'd like to ask who's doing the system to see how we're doing with the registration, and that's interesting. Dear colleagues, the issue that is now before the Hall is indeed very serious, of a State nature. We are all well aware that any person who agrees to take the lead must assume that there may be problems in his or her work when he or she has to make important decisions and must measure the decision in his or her personal capacity or the position he has agreed to take. We have a statement by Parliament Speaker Vladimir Mihajlovich Litvin on his disagreement with the vote of the majority in the Chamber on the law on language policy in the State. From a human point of view, we can accept this, and we can accept that any of us in the room today has an opinion and that we have the right to speak in public. But as a leader, I cannot accept this, because in addition to his point of view, he has responsibilities as a leader, responsibility for the work of the entire Parliament and responsibility for the political situation in our State. If I'd only known Vladimir Mikhailovich for a few days, I might not have gone to the rostrum. But the history of our relationship lasts for a long period of time, in different positions, in different situations during which time we have been. I have known this man for a long time, and I am deeply convinced that the decision he made is his decision. But this decision is based on an emotional approach, which I think is not fully thought out. And that decision cannot be supported by us in the situation in which it was made. Given these factors, given that the history of our relationship is indeed long and, for the most part, positive, and given that it takes time for any person to measure his actions with the consequences that this will result in, the faction of the Party of the Regions considers that it is premature to consider this issue on the agenda at today's session and will not vote in favour of the inclusion of this issue in the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Sergiyovich and distinguished colleagues! The "Race" system works fine, don't blame it. I'll explain. I'll explain: you can press and hold all the buttons at once, but the faction will only record one. You've always had one of the factions on two records. So there's no reason for the "Race" system. Once again, if I had announced a record from the MPs, then you would have the right to claim. I've announced a request from the factions. So only one national MP can be recorded from the faction, no matter how much pressure. Vaszczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, given the extensive experience of working in Parliament, I want to say that Parliamentarianism in Ukraine has been going through a number of times, and critical, and successful, but every time most of the people's deputies have demonstrated their commitment to the ideas of statehood, to the ideas of parliamentaryism, to the ideas of the building up of the Ukrainian state. I think we have to demonstrate this state position during this period. I, like our faction, today absolutely do not support the change in the leadership of the Supreme Council and the resignation of our speaker. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, during his parliamentary work, and not only in parliament, has not once demonstrated his loyalty to the Ukrainian State, his respect and sincere work to the Ukrainian people, putting his shoulders in the most responsible periods of history in order to tolerate, at times, difficult, complex issues in a peaceful way, a good way, a way of understanding. True, he was not always understood, but history, I think, will give the job an assessment not only of the speaker but of each of us. And when we work in Parliament, we should remember that not just every decision we make, but every word we say weighs a great deal, whether it is from this rostrum, or whether it is said as if it were a joke journalist, it can cause a different reaction. So once again, I want to look to my fellow national MPs, and we can afford a lot of things by standing up for a certain point of view, but in no way do we have the right to allow ourselves to demean the role of the Supreme Council, to violate laws or regulations, because we require that from our citizens, to the Ukrainians. And given all this, I understand the actions of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, as well as my faction colleagues, as the desire to demonstrate that most of us should not just be wise, strong, but be very balanced and remember that each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u6	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u7	Every decision she makes in this country is taken by the entire nation. That's why I think our decision today should be wise, and we must finish our cadence with the head of the Supreme Council, Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litwin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u8	Yes, please, Carmazine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u9	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders I'm registered, for those who scream, I register and perform these duties. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the country have a parliamentary crisis? The parliamentary crisis is why the Head of the Supreme Council resigned, and Vice-Speaker Mikola Tomenko resigned. Why did they resign? In my opinion, this was due to a violation of the basic, fundamental provisions of this document, the Constitution of Ukraine. She drowned in this room, sadly, during the adoption of the so - called bill. Consider when we were all invited to a committee meeting where amendments were made on 478 pages, over 2,000 amendments, suddenly, out of voice, the question arises: What should we consider? The transcript that you saw, which I then put on the table in the Head, the address, the statement that he made to the Head, which is registered in the law, showed that you voted in favour of including the matter in the order of the day. I quote on the transcript: "I put to the vote to adopt Law 9073 as an editorial. Please vote. Vote." What did you vote for? Why did you destroy the whole country, why did you cross it all? Why did you lower Ukraine’s authority, which is so difficult to conquer? During these two days, some 100 legislative acts were passed without the Head of the Supreme Council. What's done now? The changes made to the Supreme Council Rules Act, which now excludes the Supreme Council, are the head of the majority, for 226 can only choose it, not 300. You don't need the opposition at all to even take part. And we predict that you might be in opposition. So why do you take things like that? Because of this, I understand the reaction of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, because he has no right as Head of the Supreme Council to sign any of those laws that you have just passed in these two days, under yours, Adam Ivanovich, is not wise guidance. Not wise because you ignored the direct provision of the Constitution, part three of article 84 of the Ukrainian Constitution, where it is written that voting takes place personally. And you were voted here yesterday by 70 people, most of all, I was in control of all the votes and all that stuff. So these things have to be overturned, the head of the Supreme Council is back, and the law that you've changed, it's also overturned, about changes to the Rules, because that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, the discussion of performances, more faithful than factions, have been completed. I remind you that in accordance with Rule 76, part four, before we consider the matter, we should include it in the agenda and set a date for consideration. That's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal to put the day-to-day question on the statement made by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:47:51]] For-0 Thus, honourable colleagues, no decision is taken. Let us all welcome Vladimir Mikhailovich, in fact with the sense of trust that he has now received. [[Applause]] Let's move on to the application, the question of the statement made by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikli Tomenka. Please sign up for the factions if you want. Dear colleagues, no, it's not. It's coming down from the factions. Yeah, they said it wasn't. Please, Karmazin. Get Bondic ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u11	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Honorable national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine, there is a minority of voters in this room, than those who have been sent here by the electorate. Because they sent from the Party of Regions, from the Communist Party and from the Lithuanian Block 202 men. This minority has become a majority because of political corruption. Without any election, the Party of Regions, instead of 175 people who have come here to the Supreme Council today, has 194 in its ranks. This has become possible as a result of the greatest political corruption, I emphasize. Because of this, what prompted the statement by Vice-Speaker Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka, who always faithfully performed his duties as representative of the opposition. First, he was represented in the leadership as a representative of the opposition. And you know that in every parliament, whether you take the Russian Federation, or Burkina Faso, around you will see opposition in the leadership of parliamentary bodies, around you will see the possibility of opposition to control the government. Today I am asked why I sit in a government bed. Because you today, Your Honor, have taken and canceled the 299th article of the Rules without its cancellation. Without repealing the law by the President, you canceled today. And there were the answers to the government’s report, which is written every Friday. Who gave you the right to break the law, the signed law of Ukraine! Every day thousands of Ukrainians are going to court, being tried for violating traffic rules, the Tax Code, for anything! But you are not judged because you break the law every day! You violate the Constitution every day. And so, when I quote from the transcript, "Efremov voted in favour of the bill in the hall," - "219 people." [[I mean, for consideration, this is how it's translated.]] Exceeding his service authority, Adam Martinyuk set out to return without offering anything. He voted 241 to come back. And then I put the adopted law in the paper, and I don't know which law or what. Then, when the pusher began, Tomenka was picked up and voted in that card. Because of this, in protest against the situation and that his voice thus ended up on the side of those who forbid it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u12	Yes, please, Bondik. Well, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u13	I'm done. Ladies and gentlemen, each of you may have a situation where someone pushes your card, and anyone can have it, but it's your face, your card. Because of this, we pick up cards and carry each other with us so that it doesn’t happen. I think the legitimacy of the Supreme Council is zero, but the vice-speaker should be left with the opposition, if there's even a right of opposition in this state at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u14	Bondik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I am trying to be a lawyer, not as emotional as Yuri Anatolyevich of this lush subject is to express himself. You know, with regard to the will of Nikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko, it seems that we should consider his application. But according to what we've really decided that one of the vice-speaker's seats in Parliament will belong and belongs to the opposition, this is our vote, so I have an interesting proposition. The interesting thing is that it only exists on the law. I suggest we postpone consideration of this statement because we really don't know what the motives are. For example, I did not see this statement. Maybe we need an explanation for Mikola Tomenka. And also because I'm asking Adam Ivanovich not to violate KZOT, because since I know he's taking part in hunger, maybe it's caused by his emotional state. I mean, he didn't show up right now. So I'm asking you to put this away for September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u16	We'll vote. I'll just explain. We need to read, colleague Bondick, the laws, not just refer to them. No law states that opposition has something. There are no such laws, unfortunately. That's the first one. The other one. If you're talking about laws, you're a lawyer, you're just the law that the Rules are, and you have to consider an application for inclusion in the agenda and for 10 days, if it's included in the agenda, no later than 10 days, to give an answer to an application, so we have to do exactly what the law says. And your business is, how to vote, that's different. Are there no more willing speakers? () [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I put it in line with the 76th article of Part Four, although it relates to the Head of the Supreme Council, but it also refers to the First Deputy Head and Deputy Head, by the same analogy, to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the statement made by the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mikoli Tomenka. I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:55:16]] For 257 Questions in the agenda of the day session are included. Yes, please, Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, here from our colleague and Carmazin, and from our colleague Bondik, have made suggestions on how to address this issue differently. By adopting this decision, we have only included ourselves in the agenda, and we have not taken a decision. Therefore, today, Nikolai Vladimirovic is on his own if he withdraws his statement, which means there is no subject matter to be considered. And if he doesn't take his statement, we'll have to look at him in the hall. Therefore, Yuri Anatolevich, advise your colleague to reconsider and we will support his decision. Thank you. And yours, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u18	Yes, dear colleagues, we are moving forward, we need to put into order a series of urgent issues in view of the fact that, I hope, we will close the tenth session today, and there are questions that need to be resolved. And we were approached by the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's put these questions in the order of the day. As far as I know, the committee has already taken a decision on these bills, so we will be able to deal with them a little bit later. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport. [[on wheeled means of transport]] [[Registration number 10708]] The subject is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:57:38]] For 258. Included in the agenda. We also need to include in the agenda a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and personally the Prime Minister insists that it is very urgent, a draft law amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of income taxing enterprises received from the provision of hotel services. [[Registration number 10724]] Please vote. [[10:58:31]] For 256 Questions are included in the agenda. Another emergency project. The President of Ukraine requests that we include in the agenda of the day session and review the draft law on approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 10726]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[10:59:24]] For 262 And, dear colleagues, we were looking at Bill 10034 yesterday, sending the subject to work. He's ready for defense, he's ready to be reported to us today, too. Since 2 months is a long time, if we don't solve this issue, there is a request to include today's daily bill at number 10034. [[on financial assistance to Ucroborprom]] Please vote. It's included in the agenda, but to look at it today, I mean, because yesterday we were looking at it. [[11:00:13]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I ask the committees, especially the Committee of the Hometics, to make a submission on the first two drafts so that we can consider it. Now we're going to go over the bills in the second reading. We're looking at a draft of the Securities Depository Act. [[Registration number 9428]] [[second reading]] Reported the head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Homutinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Is there gonna be a piglet? Yes, please, Praslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u19	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the bill is the third of the major complex draft laws on the stock market. The second reading received 291 amendments, 273 taken fully into account, 5 taken into account in part and editorially, and 15 rejected. This project has been carried out with and is supported by the National Bank of Ukraine and the National Securities and Stock Market Commission. However, it is also a very difficult law. A large number of complex changes to second reading, which systematically alter and improve the existing depository system, force us to request that the Committee, together with the General Legal Office, develop the text of this document and implement the necessary technical and legal clarifications. We are deeply grateful to the distinguished lawyers of the General Office for their extensive work in the drafting of the text, and we request, in the light of their proposals, your distinguished colleagues, permission to harmonize the provisions of the instruments with the provisions of other laws already adopted, 8120-d and 9615. Also for the transcript, we need to clarify this document with you, taking into account the already worked out and agreed comments of the Supreme Council's General Legal Office, this is also what I am saying for the transcript. First. It will technically merge the second, third part of the second part of article 6 and complete the part with a new paragraph of the following content: “The arrangement provided by the depositary and the central depository or the National Bank, in accordance with the jurisdiction in the case of the commission of an act concerning securities by non-funding exchanges and maintenance in the calculation of the principle, the supply of securities against payment”. Second. In article 13, harmonize the numbering and, in part one, replace the “Commission” and the “National Bank” by replacing, replacing, clarifying the competence of those bodies. Third. In article 15, part 3, replace “100” with “120”. Fourth. In section VI, paragraph 1, replace “the ninth” with “the sixth”. Replace the word “six” with “fourth”, the word “thirteenth” with “twentieth”, the digits “10, 11” with “11-17”. Fourth. The third paragraph of article 15 will be supplemented by the words “the clearing house in the order established by this law”. Fifth. In article 20, part seven, delete the words. I beg you, Adam Ivanovich, time is short. In article 20, part seven, delete the words “under agreement with the commission”. Sixth. Delete section VI, paragraph 4, paragraph 1, as amended by CPC and agree on the subsequent numbering of paragraphs and the corresponding references thereto. Seven. Delete paragraph 9 of paragraph 4 of section VI. Eighth. In section VI, paragraph 4, paragraph 11, after the word “papers”, the words “clearing institutions” shall be added. Replace the words "operation".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u20	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u21	the words "operations" are replaced by "services". Ninth. The last paragraph of the new part of the third section of article 24 of the Securities and Stock Market Act should be deleted. It's the tenth. In paragraph 6 and in subsequent paragraphs, amend the subsequent references from the date of entry into force of the Act to the date of the loss of effect of the National Depository System Act. Eleventh. It is also proposed to take fully into account the observation of the General Legal Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u22	Igor Mikolaiovich, please stop. You're reading us a new law right now. That's not gonna happen. We're going to vote on what's in the table, not what you're reading from the voice. You need this law that you have, don't you? You should. Then no matter what you're reading to us. Because that's not a reference to the legal system. If you'd agreed with the legal authorities' comments, I could still understand you, and so you go out to the rostrum and offer us a cat in a bag to vote on the new law. Let's go get the table. All of it! You go to the rostrum, please, and we'll go get it. 24th, Carmazin. Are you insisting? Carmazine, 38th. Don't insist. Please just take your seat. This isn't your place until you're Prime Minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] 50th, Carmazin. Only from your place of work. It's not your place of work. 71st, Carmazin. 81st, Carmazin. 85th, his. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's your right! 92nd. 94th. Yes, microphone, please, a minute of Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u23	Yuri Karmazin, Ukrainian opposition, Party of Fatherland Defenders Honorable national MPs, in connection with the opposition’s decision not to take part in plenary meetings. I'm not going to sound these amendments to this law. I'm just going to tell the people who are listening to us that this is a very important law and it's very important what Mr. Prasoloov is talking about right now. The thing is, he actually did a second reading right now and he's doing it. But Adam Ivanovich, unfortunately, you're also right when you said "cat in a bag." Because it is a violation of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is established solely by law, the rules are not established by the Commission in agreement with Nutzbank. That's the first one. The other one. Violation of article 42 of the Constitution of Ukraine. This project envisages monopolizing the activities of Ukraine's depository system participants, which does not correspond to part three of this article, which I have told you is that the State protects competition in entrepreneurial activities. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich needs a second reading again, as clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u24	Thank you. I mean, Yuri Anatolyevich doesn't insist on his amendments. All right, let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u25	Thank you. I'll finish and I won't take the floor. You have a choice, you have a choice to do according to the Constitution, 42 articles, and I'm telling you that it's broken, and this is written by the Chief Legal Authority. That's what you'll see in my amendments. You have a choice when you see that the powers, exclusive powers, which belong to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which are provided for in article 92, are now handed over to the commission and handed over to the National Bank of Ukraine. You don't have the right to do that, you don't have the right to do that because it's not your authority, it's the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You represent a minority here today, only 202 men by election, by the trust of the Ukrainian people. Because of this second rereading, this law must be made. I will not take another word under this law, I have warned you against violations of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'm almost done with the review. I understand that apart from Yuri Anatoliovich, all the other amendments are included. All the other amendments are included. The bill requires substantial refinement and re-reading, - makes a comment by the Chief Legal Authority. The committee suggests that it be accepted in the second reading as a whole. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt in the second reading and in general the Depository System of Securities Act. [[Registration number 9428]] Please vote. [[11:10:23]] For 257 And the honourable heads of committees and reporters, please and I'm paying attention to you, unfortunately, this is becoming a practice. The table is a table, the reporter comes out, and he starts reading for half an hour what he wants to do. There's a committee and a comparative table for that. There are suggestions, you can replace the pages, but you need to get all of this through the Legal Authority and be in a comparative table. This is a re-examination of the President of Ukraine's proposals to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 31 of the Waste Act. [[Registration number 10555]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:11:22]] For 210 Supported. A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Miroshnichenko Yuri reports. Get ready. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u27	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to Article 31 of the Waste Act of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council on 7 June 2012, cannot be supported by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons: the law provides for the granting of the Cabinet of Ministers and the relevant central authorities of the executive authority of the authority to establish a system of collection, disposal, disposal of wastes that are generated in the process of providing health services to people, veterinary services and related research. [[Registration number 10555]] It should be noted that the issue of the disposal and destruction of inadequacies, at present, has been regulated by the Law on Medical Devices. The proposed solution to waste management is not in line with the law and may lead to collisions, with practical application of the rules. In addition, the law applies the terms "health services" and veterinary services that are not in law. This could create risks of ambiguous interpretation of the law in practice and the extension of the discretionary powers of state authorities and their officials. The Head of State believes that this law needs to be improved, in particular it needs to be clearly defined as "the collection, removal, disposal, disposal, disposal of waste." Complement it with the provisions concerning the delimitation of powers of executive authorities regarding the development and implementation of appropriate waste management measures. The details will ensure that the law is implemented in practice and that competent disputes are avoided. In this regard, respectable colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u28	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u29	In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u30	Yes, thank you. The committee is Vladimir Danilenko. Please, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act amending article 31 of the Waste Act, which was adopted by the Supreme Council on 7 June 2012. [[Registration number 10555]] The law is designed to create a system of collection, removal, disposal, disposal, and disposal of waste that is formed in the process of providing health care services to people associated with such research. The President of Ukraine returned this law by proposing, in paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Act amending article 31 of the Act on Wastes, the words "the provision of health care services, veterinary services" should be replaced by the words "medical services, veterinary practices". And the word is, "and also forgivable and falsified drugs" is deleted. To supplement the law on the delimitation of the powers of the executive authorities with regard to the development and implementation of appropriate waste management measures. The Committee's decision to take fully into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, by amending the law's title in article 31, paragraph 1, and by adding two new parts to the relevant amendments to articles 18 and 23 of the "On Waste" Act. Please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the law and adopt the proposed law, taking into account the proposals made. The scientific and legal authorities consider the observation to be correct and support these proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u32	Thank you. I'm voting on the President's first proposal. Please vote. [[11:16:11]] For 257 Copy that. The President's second proposal is for a vote. Please vote. [[11:16:31]] For 253 Copy that. The President's third proposal is for a vote. [[11:16:49]] For 257 Copy that. And the President's fourth proposal is for a vote. Please vote. [[11:17:07]] For 257 Copy that. So, your honors, we have taken into account all the President's proposals and we have reason to adopt the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 31 of the Act on Wastes, including the President's proposals. [[Registration number 10555]] Please vote. [[11:17:43]] For 259. The law is passed. Dear colleagues! Now we're moving on to those projects that we've included. We're looking at a bill on some of the issues of debt to defence and industrial enterprises -- participants in the Ucrobanprom State Company and ensuring their sustainable development. [[Registration number 10034]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[11:18:32]] For 226 Supported. Please, Zabarski. We listened to him yesterday, literally in memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! To make sense of what the law is. It is very brief for those who have not been able to see deeply to read for those who have found it too difficult. First, with regard to the local budgets that have been criticised by the bill. Local budgets do not apply in principle. With regard to salary arrears. This is the mechanism that launches this law and will also eliminate the arrears of wages. Fears were justified by the rule relating to the write-off of OPC business debts to the Pension Fund. I want to say that I personally addressed the Ministry of Social Policy and the Pension Fund, and I have a letter that was sent to a committee where representatives of the Ministry have offered a vision of how to deal with this problem. There is a clear mechanism that the amount of debt owed to OPC enterprises to the Pension Fund is written off by the Pension Fund itself in respect of loans granted to the Pension Fund in the previous year. A separate rule states that such write-offs do not concern employees in any way, and that they receive insurance as paid. I mean, there's no problem here. With regard to debt for thermal energy, energy, supply plants, all of this is agreed with the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, and agreed with the Ministry of Communication. There is a system of compensation for those enterprises that cancel debts to PPC enterprises. This is true of electricity suppliers and wholesale suppliers and electricity producers, and of Naftogaz Ukraine separately. Those who are again in arrears to the State Reserve Agency. Those debts that were incurred last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u34	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u35	The Cabinet of Ministers, which had been implemented, as well as in connection with judicial decisions. Therefore, I strongly ask you to support this important law for enterprises in the defence and industrial complex. And since all of this is agreed upon by law with the relevant enterprises and ministries, I ask that it be considered as a whole and adopted as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u36	Yeah, except for Kinach, who insists? Please, Kinaha's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u37	Dear National Deputies! For the sake of clarity on the relevance and purpose of this bill, I thank you for the opportunity to inform you that, over the last period, there has been a system of targeted activities for the restoration of governance, the development of a defence and industrial complex, created and approved by the decree of the President of Ukraine of the Committee on Reform, the development of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the defence and industrial complex and have already held its meeting. Now in the development phase, the National Comprehensive Reforming, Development and Development Programme of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, including its components, are being developed with the development of technical production programmes, weapons with the aim of maximizing the use of Ukraine's scientific, industrial and human potential. Approved target state programs for the construction of Corvette-type ships, Sapsan-type rocket weapons, etc. So this bill is designed primarily to create conditions for financial recovery and the ability to carry out public tasks, the state defence order by strategic enterprises of the Ukrainian defence and industrial complex. So I would also like to support the bill as part of the reconstruction, the development of our defence and industrial complex in the context of strengthening the resilience of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u38	Yes, dear fellows. You're on the agrarian committee, are there any defenses? Well, Smitch, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u39	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm really on the agrarian committee, but I'm a Ukrainian citizen and I'm worried about security in Ukraine. I am in favour of supporting enterprises that are of greater national or national importance, including the defence industry of Ukraine. Because the world has not been as peaceful for the past 20 years, not as peaceful as we used to think when we were giving up nuclear weapons. But I would like to point out that the government and the new leadership of Ukraine's defence complex should provide analysis, analysis and evaluation to the previous leaders, and how did such debts happen today. Who piled them up, where are they anyway? Because, as the classic says, "Someone loses money and someone finds it." And when some say that they support the defence and industrial complex, these people just over 20 years have broken down this defence complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u40	Finish up. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt, as a basis for the first reading of the draft Act on certain issues of debt to enterprises of the defence and industrial complex, participants in the state-owned firm Ucro defenceprom and ensure their sustainable development. [[Registration number 10034]] Please vote. [[11:25:25]] For 245 A decision has been made. It was an offer to accept as a law as a whole. Is there a denial? Unfortunately, there is. We are considering a bill amending Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of the income tax paid to enterprises received from the provision of hotel services. [[Registration number 10724]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[11:26:08]] For 227 Supported. Report to Deputy Infrastructure Minister Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich, please. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u41	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, you are invited to consider a draft Ukrainian Law amending Chapter XX of the Transitional Regulations of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of paying taxes on the income of economic operators received from the provision of hotel services. The main purpose of this draft law is to create conditions for lowering the cost of basic hotel services and their accessibility to consumers. According to section IV, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Tax Code, for a period of 10 years, starting on January 1, 2011, the income of the business subject received from the provision of hotel services at Category 5, 4 and 3 hotels of the star category is exempt. The standard applies provided that the income derived from the provision of a temporary residence number is at least 75 percent of the total income of such an economic activity subject during the corresponding tax reporting period. However, a large number of hotels cannot use this standard because the maximum income from basic hotel services is not more than 60 percent at present. In view of this, there is a need to improve the status of the code: to reduce from 75 to 50 percent of the total income of the economic activity subject during the reporting period during which the benefit is applied. So we suggest we lower the threshold from 75 to 50 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support this bill in the first reading and in general to vote in favour of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u42	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Homutinnik
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The substance of the bill has just been read and proclaimed. In fact, it's about giving hotel benefits for 10 years, and one of the prerequisites for getting that benefit is that 75 percent of the income is directly from hotel services. Today, five-star hotels fit into this standard because the price for rooms in these hotels is higher. If it's 3 or 4 stars, it's already 75 percent of that is on the line, because the price of the number is lower, and the services of both restaurants and various household services and others remain at the same level. So the point is to make this one. That's 75 percent change by 50 percent. The Committee generally supports this idea and recommends that it be accepted as a whole, but there is a note, not as a reference, but a trailer, not to this bill, but in principle, to amendments to the Tax Code. If we take this project, for example, we're actually changing the 75 by 50 in this project, and we need to make separate changes to the Tax Code. Yesterday, we adopted more systematic changes, where about ten government projects were merged into one of the same, by the way, small projects. So I would ask the government to make more systematic changes, because then we get the criticism that too often we change the Tax Code. And by the way, including this criticism is coming from the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you. And by law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up if you want to. Yes, please, Crane Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u45	Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. I propose to support this bill because it really supports the development of the toilet business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u46	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, then I'm voting on the proposal: to take the whole project as a basis. Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional positions" of the Tax Code of Ukraine on the characteristics of paying income tax to enterprises received from the provision of hotel services. [[Registration number 10724]] [[11:31:45]] For 234 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Ukrainian Customs and Registration of Means of Transport. [[on wheeled means of transport]] [[Bill 10708 registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[11:32:20]] For 215 Supported. Report to Deputy Infrastructure Minister Demidovich Dmitry Volodymyrovich. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Means of Transport has been proposed for your consideration. The emissions of harmful substances from motor vehicles account for more than a third of the total emissions to the air pool and more than 90 percent of all moving sources. The proposed bill is aimed at significantly improving the state of the environment through a step-by-step harmonization of national environmental requirements for wheeled vehicles with international European requirements, which is one of the prerequisites for Ukraine's integration into the European Union. The bill proposes the introduction of more environmental standards into wheeled means of transport: Euro-3 from 1 January 2013, Euro-4 from 1 January 2014, Euro-5 from 1 January 2016 and Euro-6 from 1 January 18th. Please support this bill in the first reading and vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u48	Yes, thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered Bill 10708, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into the Customs Territory of Ukraine and Registration of Means of Transport. The bill provides for amendments to the regulations on conditions and deadlines for the introduction of international environmental requirements into transport vehicles in Ukraine. This is a de facto ban on the import of vehicles that do not meet the environmental standards of Euro-3, Euro-4, Euro-5, Euro-6. Accordingly Euro-3 from the following year, Euro-4 from 2014, Euro-5 from 2016 and Euro-6 from 2018. This is one of the international requirements and our commitments to the World Trade Organization, including to international other organizations that care about the matter. The committee therefore considered the issue and recommended the adoption of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u50	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Patchyuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is designed to improve the environment in our country and it refers to practically freight transport that works in Europe. So there is a proposal to adopt this bill as a whole and to enable our carriers to work and be competitive in Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u52	Chaplain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, after considering this bill, we came to the next conclusion. First of all, this bill has no relation to ecology. The reference to the need to adopt this act is pretty well written here that the harmful substances of 90 percent, the proposed bill aimed at step-by-step harmonization of national environmental standards, are designed by the transport strategy. That's what I'm reading from your explanatory note. The bill allows car manufacturers to plan the release of products and to improve the technology of accounting for the gradual introduction of international environmental standards. So I want to tell you, if you read this bill carefully, there is no relation to these declarations. First of all, it's the compilation of accounts in a competitive environment in the middle of Ukraine, because there's no real ban on the production of paint, oil and so on -- everything that's licensed in Ukraine, "Goddan"** and so on to keep these technologies, and it's regulated only by sub-legal acts of the Mini-Infrastructure. Excuse me, could that be so? And when domestic products are cheaper, in fact, there will be no European producers here. This is a clear struggle for the internal market in this country. Next question. Please tell me, why are we cleaning up the level of environmental standards that correspond to the means of transport and which has been introduced to the registration certificate so far? Why are we so afraid of this? Maybe it's because we don't want to stick to it. We believe that such a bill cannot be supported in such a case. Few things he can't be accepted not only in general, but he can't even be accepted in the first reading, because he can't be corrected in the future. So we'd like to suggest that we send it for work, because desire really is and if it's not. The introduction in Ukraine, we will support such things, but once we have done the flaws that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u54	One minute, Zurawsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u55	Vitaly Zuravsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. What the previous MP said was absolutely nonsense. This bill sets European standards for environmental requirements for transport products imported into Ukraine. So this bill needs to be adopted and supported by the government's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u56	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic, there's a clarification.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u57	Another clarification of the bill. The text of the bill reads as follows: not below the Euro-3 level of January 1, 2013, but not before 100 days from the date of entry into force of this law. So there's a suggestion that this rule be deleted "not earlier than 100 days from validity." If we're going to take the whole thing now, it's going to be an empty norm. The same is true in the next paragraph, which deals with the introduction of Euro-4 standards, also since 1 January 2014, but not before 100 days from the date of entry into force of this law. Well, that's completely absurd, because if we take it this year, 100 days, of course, not until January 1, 2014. So, taking these proposals into account, I ask, and the committee recommends that we vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, let's take a closer look at the documents. I mean, in vain, some of you object to the adoption of this bill. On the contrary, we must help you and our citizens to breathe cleaner air. Well, it's not clear what they're trying to do here, what's no longer allowed here, is that you Ukrainians use it. Let us respect ourselves in this regard. I think that's right. Vitaly Yuriovich drew attention to those descriptions that, not before 100 days, it's got to be cleaned up because they don't come out of the dates that are written there. Taking into account these amendments, as Vitaly Hometicnik said, I'm making a proposal to the committee. Practically the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration didn't do it, it rarely does it, it does it, but it doesn't matter that we don't have a reason not to adopt the law. Therefore, I am asking to support the committee's decision and to vote in favour of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Certain Issues of Import into Customs and Registration of Means of Transport. [[on wheeled means of transport]] [[Registration number 10708]] Please support our citizens. [[11:41:40]] For 248 Thank you. The law is passed. And we have another law. Draft Act approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the United Nations Mission in Liberia and the United Nations Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 10726]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. [[11:42:21]] For 227 Supported. Reported Deputy Defence Minister Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolayovich. Please. Get Samylenko ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine has been working on the United Nations appeal to Ukraine for the involvement of a peacekeeping contingent from the United Nations Mission in Liberia to carry out tasks in Côte d’Ivoire’s airspace. Armed forces already have sufficient experience of performing tasks in Côte d’Ivoire. The participation of Ukrainian helicopters and operations as assessed by the United Nations played a crucial role in stabilizing the situation throughout Africa. The adoption of the proposed bill will allow for the inclusion of an aviation group consisting of three MI-24 helicopters and 60 special personnel in operations in Côte d'Ivoire. The main tasks of the unit will include air intelligence and surveillance, mission personnel and medical evacuation, United Nations air support, and civilian security patrols. The issue of protection, the placement of daily activity within the unit is agreed upon and will be provided at the expense of the United Nations. The technique and the specific composition for the task are ready. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, taking into account the critical need of the United Nations in the Ukrainian Aviation Unit and its important role in further stabilizing the situation in these two African countries, I ask the National Deputies to approve the bill presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u60	Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee Samylenko Yuri Pavlovich
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! The United Nations National Security and Defence Committee has completed its appeal to Ukraine to use the peacekeeping contingent of the United Nations Mission in Liberia to carry out its tasks in the airspace of Côte d’Ivoire. The armed forces of Ukraine have already had sufficient experience in carrying out their tasks in Côte d’Ivoire. As already mentioned, from November 2010 to December 2011, the United Nations helicopter team in Liberia carried out the task of assisting UN operations in Côte d’Ivoire. At present, the situation in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire remains relatively stable. However, there is a tendency to exacerbate it in border areas due to the conflict between the armed forces of Côte d'Ivoire and the illegal military forces. The adoption of the proposed bill would enable the use of an aviation team consisting of 3 MI-24 helicopters and up to 60 personnel in operations for the United Nations Mission. Security, accommodation, day-to-day activities have been agreed upon and will be secured through United Nations funds. The technique and composition for the tasks are in place. This issue has been decided by a majority, a positive decision. And it was recommended that the bill be supported by the committee, 9 voted in favour, 5 against. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-07-06-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal of the committee to approve the decision of the President of Ukraine to deploy a peacekeeping contingent to Ukraine in cross-border operations in the framework of inter-mission cooperation between the UN Mission in Liberia and the UN Operation in Côte d'Ivoire. [[Registration number 10726]] Please vote. [[11:46:47]] For 263 Thank you, the decision is made. Dear colleagues, we have implemented today’s order of work. I inform you that members of the Cabinet of Ministers are taking part in the session with Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov. Let us welcome them. () [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! According to our calendar plan, today we have to announce the closing of the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. In this regard, allow me to share with you some of the thoughts about our work during this tenth session. Of course, the tenth session is special in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, because it was, if you can say so, under the influence of an electoral campaign that has actually started. As we confirmed the order of the tenth session, we planned to consider 833 questions, 203 more questions were included during the session. In 40 days of plenary work, there were 60 mornings and evening plenary meetings, including one in turn. At the same time, I would point out that the Supreme Council could have worked better if nine plenary sessions had not been blocked by opposition factions. During the session, decisions were made regarding 736 draft laws. Including the adoption or approval of 222 laws, approved in the first reading of 71 projects, 443 returned to work, rejected and withdrawn, 70 of which have been revoked and returned by the entities of the legislative initiative. Among the most important bills considered and adopted at the current session are, of course, the adoption of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Customs Codes of Ukraine. Also during the tenth session, a number of laws were adopted that regulate social relations in the field of economic activity, respect for human rights, and improvement of their protection. During the tenth session, two parliamentary hearings were held to discuss the crisis in the rural education sector and how to overcome them, as well as the state and prospects of the military organization and the security sector of Ukraine. Five committee hearings were also held on relevant socio-economic and legal issues. In addition, 599 decisions have resulted in organizational issues, legislative procedures, legislative and supervisory powers for Parliament. In the section of the legal entities of the legislative initiative, 14 bills from the number submitted by the President of Ukraine, 175 from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, 1 from the National Bank of Ukraine, and 546 from the National Deputies of Ukraine were discussed. In terms of thematic focus, we have considered 227 drafts, 209 drafts and legal bills, 154 bills. Of the laws adopted for the session, 128 were signed and entered into force. I, my distinguished colleagues, both for you, and especially for the electorate, point out that sometimes we are accused of having few laws passed by the Supreme Council and that we have few. Unfortunately, we have more laws than we should. See, just for the 128th session. The question is another way in which we follow their implementation and how, including our committees, we control the implementation of decisions taken by the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we all know that the main link in the legislative process is the parliamentary committees, and so I think it'll be interesting to hear some figures about their work. During this session, 284 meetings were held by the committees, at which nearly 2,000 720 questions were considered. At the same time, for good reason, 24 committee meetings were not held. The most adopted laws have been prepared by the Committees: on economic policy issues – 30, on finance, banking, tax and customs policy – 27, I think with today's two – 29 and on law enforcement issues – 15, the vast majority of ratified treaties, and we ratified such agreements during the tenth session of 11, adopted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the same time, it should be noted that many committee and plenary times during this session, as well as previous ones, have been spent on bills that have been rejected and withdrawn. The number of such bills is 372, of which 346 are bills introduced by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Dear colleagues, at the conclusion of this session today, the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have almost a thousand drafts, of which 135 have been commissioned to prepare for the second or subsequent readings. Taking this into account, I draw the heads of the committees' attention to the need to ensure that the organization of the drafting of the committees' bills and inter-sessional periods is organized so that we can start work on Tuesday, September 1, this year. Dear colleagues, let me remind you that the following week the national deputies will be working on committees, factions, groups and commissions. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the eleventh session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth occasion will begin its work on Tuesday, September 4, 2012. I am very grateful to all of you for your fruitful work, and I wish you a good political season. Dear National Deputies, the tenth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call I declare closed.
