ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:24]] There were 421 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague Alexander Kozuba. Please welcome a colleague and wish him health and success. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on 7 June 2012. Twenty-seven issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 12 laws and 33 decrees were passed, 5 bills were adopted on the basis of which 1 bill was returned to the subject of the legislative initiative, and 1 bill was rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was passed in general, taking into account President of Ukraine's proposals, 1 law was rejected. Honourable National Deputies, two factions: the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland" and the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction in accordance with the Rules require a recess to be announced for consultations and statements. Who will make the statement? Davemuk? Roman Zabzaluk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u2	Respectable citizens! Yesterday, on television, Mr. Azarov allowed himself to make unprecedentedly lying statements accusing Julia Timoshenko. Moreover, in his lie, he referred to unknown material that seemed to be foreign justice. Yesterday's statement by Prime Minister Azarov was finally confirmed: the government has ceased to carry out its functions as provided by the Constitution and has moved on to service the electoral interests of the corrupt clan of the Party of the Regions. At a time when the Chief Prosecutor's Office, the Attorney General's Office, the BSS, the tax police are almost fully involved in producing false criminal cases against Yulia Timoshenko, the government of the Party of the Regions, at the huge cost of the State Budget, is renting foreign structures for the sole purpose of blacking out Yulia Timoshenko. Prime Minister Azarov and his government have led to the poverty of pensioners, medics, teachers, peasants, Chernobyl, Afghans, the entire population of Ukraine. Instead of implementing these challenging socio-economic problems of the country, he assumes the role of prosecutor, judge, investigator and public sentencing of Yulia Timoshenko. This finally indicated that the ruling regime wanted to return Ukraine in 1937. Therefore, the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" requires an immediate answer from Mr. Azarov: Do you know of the presumption of innocence? Where did you get these materials? On what grounds do you deceive people with nonexistent accusations? We demand a decision from any foreign court in which Julia Timoshenko is accused of corruption. There is no such decision in nature and there is no such decision. The BUT-Paternity faction requires immediate cessation of provocation and any insinuation against the opposition and its leaders, immediate release of political prisoners and leaders of the opposition democratic forces of the country of Yulia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko. Glory to Ukraine! Ukraine will win!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u3	Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] On behalf of two factions, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate request in the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an hour of questions to the government. There is practically a full government, with the exception of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who is currently conducting protocol actions. Head of the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine, First Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Valery Horoshkovsky. There are also four ministers with a motive for shipping and participation in the Euro-2012 events. All other ministers are personally present. Honourable national MPs, representatives of MPs and groups have proposed that, during the "hour of questions to the Government" listen to information from the Cabinet of Ministers related to the completion of the academic year and the introductory campaign, as well as to foreign policy, processes that take place in the world, especially in relation to Ukraine, assessments of the internal events of Ukraine, implementation of foreign political initiatives of Ukraine, foreign policy course, that is, those issues that are in the field of foreign affairs of Ukraine. Thus, it is suggested that we organize our work. Allowing ministers to take turns in order to describe the situation in their respective areas of work, to answer written questions from national deputies, as well as questions from national deputies, who will be appointed prime ministers for this "hour of questions to the government", or to present members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this is the offer, the honourable colleagues: to answer written questions for up to 15 minutes, 15 on the lips. If the question of the presence of members of the Cabinet of Ministers is directly concerned, that is what you should say. Is there no objection? What objections they have, they are not accepted. Honourable National MPs are invited to the podium of Minister of Education and Science Dmitry Volodymyrovich Tobacco. Well, I don't exactly call the Ministry: sports, youth and tourism, everything else. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u4	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! Written questions came from all the factions of the Supreme Council. In fact, questions from all factions are about the transition and the start of the introductory campaign to the higher educational institutions of Ukraine this year. So let me start with this biggest question that the Ukrainian national deputy Oleg Alexandrovich Zarubinski asked about the introductory campaign. I would like to point out that, for the first time in 20 years, the state conditions for admission to higher education institutions in Ukraine were completed after a public discussion, registered with the Ministry of Justice and published on October 12, 2011, which allowed teachers, graduates, teachers to work for ten months and prepare under stable rules. As a result of the public discussion, and taking into account the 2011 introductory campaign, such changes have been made to the State conditions of admission to higher education institutions in Ukraine. First. Practically, the deadlines for applying and documents from applicants for education have remained stable on the basis of basic or full-time secondary education for the daily form of education. This year, 30 days will be accepted, from July 2 to July 31. The acceptance of documents from candidates for the day-to-day form of education in all higher educational institutions is completed on July 31st, and the acceptance of documents from those who will pass the entrance examinations to the higher educational institutions is completed on July 20th. Preliminary exams for those who finished school before the introduction of the test will take place from July 21 to 31 by 2008. By accepting applications and documents from persons who are to be enrolled in creative competitions in higher education institutions in such fields as journalism, the skills of the actor, the director, and the artistic direction of the training are completed on July 17th. Accordingly, all creative competitions will take place in several sessions as the groups are formed from July 10 to 31. The entrance exams for those who will take the basis of basic general secondary education for college will be completed on July 20th, the entrance exams will be completed on July 20th and 31st respectively. The ranking list of enrollment candidates, which is based on full and basic secondary education, identifying all persons recommended for admission to institutions, universities and universities, will be published in all higher education institutions no later than 12 p.m. on August 1. The day-to-day enrolment of candidates on the basis of full and basic secondary education will take place on a public basis – no later than 11 August, on a contract basis, i.e. at the expense of natural and legal persons – until 25 August. In the new terms of admission, it is noted that the applicant can submit documents both personally and electronically for admission to competitive selection. In 2012, this order was prepared by a separate document, approved and registered at the Ministry of Justice. The new reception conditions of each higher education institution are required to establish the fact that each application is paper-based, in a single state electronic education database, directly at the time of acceptance of the application. It has been established that the three stages of counting following the publication of the rating list recommended before counting take place in three stages: four, three and three days. The applicants are also given the right to submit certificates of the Ukrainian Center for World Quality Assessment issued in either the twelfth year or the certificates or duplicate them in 2008, 2009. 2010, 2011 at the wish of the entourage, where it has a better result. The new admission conditions have established that in order to obtain a Bachelor-level education, candidates are allowed to participate in competitive selection, who provide external ball rating certificates of not less than 124 on non-professional contests and at least 140 on the main course of a professional contestant. It is also possible for admission commissions, subject to the availability of pedagogical and scientific pedagogical personnel, to establish an introductory examination for persons who enter the educational and qualification level of the baccalaureate in the direction of Philology and have obtained full secondary education in the languages of national minorities: Hungarian, Moldovan, Romanian, Crimean or Polish to pass an examination in such a language, from which they are presented in the educational document. [[languages of national minorities]] The test results will be estimated on a scale of 100 to 200 points. I would like to say that all external independent certificates of external independent evaluation are clearly defined according to the direction of preparation. This year, too, the winners of the fourth final stage of the all-U.S. student Olympics from basics and the winners of the third stage of the U.S.-wide student research competition are preserved. I would also like to inform you in the course of an introductory campaign on the volume of government procurement. By a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 17 May 2012, the issue of public procurement for the preparation of scientific and labour personnel and the upgrading of qualifications, the retraining of personnel for public purposes in 2012. According to the regulation, the number of admissions to train professionals at the level of the younger specialist is almost 79,000, 4 thousand more than the 2011 government order, including 68,000 persons on a daily basis, which is one and a half thousand more than last year. At the educational and educational level of the baccalaureate, a government order of 127 thousand 200 persons, including the daily education of 108 thousand persons, is established. I would like to inform the national MPs that the government's decision has significantly increased the volume of government procurement by 14.5 per cent, radio, electronics, radio, radio, communications, almost 25 per cent of government procurement, metallurgy and material science by 64 per cent, compared to the previous year, machine building and metal processing by almost 28 per cent, chemical technology and engineering by 46 per cent, aviation and missile space technology by 44 per cent, transport and transport infrastructure by 32 per cent. In addition, the government’s decision has increased the volume of direct government procurement: information technology, system analysis, computer science, automated and computer-integrated technologies, system engineering, computer engineering, microelectronics, nanoelectronics, information and communication systems. Thus, in 2012, there was an increase in the level of enrolment at the Bachelor's level, at the cost of the State budget, in the direct preparation for the IT sector by almost 3,000 seats, by 24 percent. The level of admission at the level of the public procurement specialist will be 74,000 people, including more than 57,000 in the form of day-to-day education. At the educational and professional level of the Master of State, 44 thousand 600 people are awarded a government order, including more than 37,000 of them covering public places for the day-to-day form of education. I would like to emphasize that this is the highest rate of government procurement in all years of independence of Ukraine and even in comparison with past years. In the preparation of the labour force, the number of admissions increased by 15 percent compared to 2011 and by almost 16 percent to upgrade and retraining. The government’s decision has also been implemented by the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports, and will receive it in time for the next week. I'd like to move on to a question from the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions. "Did it harm the graduates of the school that this year the Euro-2012 Championship was reduced to a school year?" The 2011 - 2012 Euro - 2012 European Championship in Ukraine, regardless of their type, ended on May 25 of this year. The exception was the end of the school year for 11th grade graduates. Since the 11th graders composed an external independent evaluation in order for them to get there on time, and also had time to appeal in case of disagreement, for them the teaching was completed on May 3rd and the delivery of the test results took place on May 12th. So 11th grade students are the only parallel that's been studying for three weeks less than others. That at two - hour study courses, the loss was only six hours each. Taking into account the fact that each subject’s teaching program takes between 6 and 10 hours of spare time to repeat the study, generalizing the study, the loss of learning time to study new subjects simply did not exist. It is worth noting that all the applicants of this year were in equal conditions. Even on such a schedule, a number of measures have been taken by the Ministry to avoid overcrowding. It was developed, and appropriate recommendations were sent to all educational institutions for the use of teaching topics and teaching materials. And it follows that no subject of the software material should be introduced into the content of the tasks of state summary appraisal and external independent evaluation. I would like to point out that in addition to some baseless statements by the media about the inconvenience of any official complaint either from the teacher or from the graduate. A question from the MP's party, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block is "The Fatherland." "In 2011, the number of budget positions is significantly reduced. This year, the number of budget places for prestigious specialties has decreased even more. Please tell me, would it not be more appropriate to reduce the number of private higher education institutions that mainly prepare lawyers, economists, accountants, rather than cut government orders in prestigious higher education institutions that prepare truly highly qualified specialists?" I've already asked the previous question that the reduction in the government order has not taken place. It is clearly calculated according to employment orders in every direction of the region. In the leading educational institutions, there was no shorter government order. Moreover, I've already said that in the main engineering directions, government procurement has increased significantly, from 24 percent to 64 percent. At the same time, the government’s demand for the training of lawyers and economists is actually reduced due to the overcrowding of the labour market by professionals in these professions, which is confirmed both by official state statistics and by the registrations of the State Employment Center. When it comes to the closure of higher education institutions of non-state ownership. So this is only so clearly in line with the Higher Education Act, where a license to train a specialist can be revoked only to non-State higher education institutions that have only one basis: the provision of quality education services. At the same time, in 2011, according to the introductory campaign, 159 universities in largely non-state forms of ownership submitted fewer than 100 applications for 1 higher education facility. And up to 20 higher education institutions, as a result of the 2011 introductory campaign, were not submitted. It's basically all private property. That is, the aboriginals themselves have shown mistrust in these institutions. The question of the MPs of all factions is repeated, including the factions of the Party of the Regions about kindergartens. I want to say that no kindergartens have been closed this year, and in total, 476 kindergartens have been restored in 2 years, and an additional 2 and a half thousand groups have been set up to increase the number of kindergartens by 134 and a half thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u5	Dmitry Volodymyrovich, let's move on to the questions directly from the national MPs. Please sign up for the question. Names, please. Zoya Shishkina, please. Faction "BUT" - "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u6	I give you my word, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u7	Ulya Mistpane, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u8	Dear Dmitry Volodymyrovich, according to article 11 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act, which entered into force on 1 February this year, all those who take office as civil servants must undergo a special examination. This check includes the Ministry. And here's the data that you've had in the Ministry since this anti-corruption law was passed, yes, there are 22,000 such questions and people are asking the right questions. How to make inquiries. You, the department of inquiry, didn't answer in two or three months, but in two weeks, as it is. We realize it's people without jobs for almost two or three months that go and don't know where to go. So the question is, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u9	Finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u10	What you're going to do is to increase the number of employees that you have to have in the ministry, or in some other way to solve this issue positively for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Volodyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u12	Thank you to the distinguished national MP for asking. Today there are more than 26,000 questions. People work around the clock on Saturdays and Sundays. In addition, a special group of staff departments, the personnel units of Kiev’s higher education institutions, was established. Mobilized representatives from other central authorities who provide assistance on condition that they have the right permission. But the main thing has already been done in the past week, as proposed by the government, Uljano Stepanovno, to the President's decree, the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers has been adopted, and now the right of special review has been given to all the principal administrations of education and science of local government administrations. Yesterday we completed the transfer of cases to 18 district government administrations, which are also involved in the inspection. And hopefully we'll catch up by the end of June, we'll enter into a schedule that includes a presidential decree for two weeks of work for a special inspection. I would also like to say that during the special inspection, more than 300 persons were found to be inadequate — that is, not to have such a diploma, its forgery, and so forth. The point is that since 2010, all the documents on all levels of higher education have been in the only electronic database that makes this test quick. Documents received by the year 2000 are subject to direct verification — correspondence. The biggest delays occur when people have completed higher education institutions outside Ukraine. Moreover, since 1992, many of these facilities have been dismantled, leading to the very difficult task of providing reliable facilities when a person has gone outside.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u13	Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u14	Dmitry Volodymyrovich, I'm on the right of you, I have a recommendation, one question to you. Today, the State Educated University of Dragomanova is conducting an experiment to prepare students for independent testing in the upper provinces of Zakarpatsk, especially in the Inter-Igor region. This experiment is going very well, everyone is satisfied. And perhaps to pay attention to this and to disseminate this experience throughout Ukraine in other state institutions? It's like a recommendation. And questions. Please tell me, Dmitry Volodymyrovich, do you share the idea that those students who are once again studying from high-rise locations, from those points where status is extended, are there mountain status for them to have certain benefits on entry and perhaps some extra payments, or perhaps a free stay in hostels? Do you share the legislative initiative of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u15	Thank you. I'd like to say about the National Teachers' University of Dragomanov. It's an extremely interesting experiment conducted by a teaching team in this facility. What's more, I'd like to inform you that Dragoman's National Teachers' University is chosen as the primary institution in the preparation of standards for the training of teachers, particularly from correctional education, from preschool, among all the teaching institutions in Europe. In addition, a test - related experiment by the Ministry, along with the University of Dragomanova, is working on the introduction of pedagogical, psychological tests in the future. And I think we're going to end this calendar year, and we're going to propose next year to those who want to get the specialty of a teacher or a psychologist. Either a teacher, or a psychologist, these experimental tests for pedagogical fitness. That's why we know and support this experiment. With regard to admission or settlement benefits, all 11 categories that the legislators have decided to receive are clearly included in the current state conditions. Under the terms of acceptance, at least 25 percent of the government’s seats should be reserved for government procurement. This situation is supported by both public organizations and a community of rectors, because in 2010, there were cases where the Pilgrims had completely chosen all the places of government procurement, such as the National Economic University of Gethtman, the National University of Shevchenka, and even the graduates, who, at all three external independent points, received 190-200 points. As for the legislative initiative, I think that if there is such a decision by the legislator, we will certainly take that into account. I think I'm going to college anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u16	Complete the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u17	for knowledge and as few categories as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u18	Either you have to cancel the tests, or then you have to accept the benefits, and you have to figure something out, yes. Jarochuk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u19	Vladimir Jaroschuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please pass the word to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u20	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u21	Dear Dmitri Vladimirović, thank you very much for the comprehensive information. You know, the absolute majority of unpolitized education and science workers are now at a calm and very constructive working pace of the Ministry of Education. That's right, it's a general wish. You know, really, there's a lot going on today in a calm regime, and we're going into an introductory campaign again without too much nerve. Much has also been done today to renovate rural schools. It's a bigger problem, and we're just starting it. But you took it seriously, I understand. But question one, which is asked everywhere in all schools, is the Minister of Education, Dmitry Vladimirović: Will the timetable for equipping rural schools by school buses be disrupted? Here's the plan, we're going in rhythm, we're not going out of our way. Teachers are very concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u22	Please, Dmitri Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u23	Thank you. This year, the Cabinet of Ministers, and through the assistance of each of the people's deputies, for the first time, supported the Ministry of Education's budget request in a record amount for all years of Ukrainian independence: 300.253 million for the acquisition of school buses to create conditions for children studying in rural areas of equal quality education. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council, a work and tender was conducted that would enable the purchase of 989 buses for these funds, almost a thousand. I would like to point out that the timetable for the delivery of buses to schools is August, September and will be completed by 25 October. We're on a clear schedule. The Ministry of Finance has secured an advance. The tender was won by four domestic producers, all of whom have the relevant certificates of the Ministry of Transport, State Auto-Inspection. I will give you just one example, among the winners, the official price for the purchase of a school bus for small portions was 401-403 000 grevens, and the winners received a price offer of 354-356 000 bracelets for a specially equipped bus for 25 seats. I am absolutely convinced that teachers of rural areas, parents, all buses in August, September, October will be fully deployed to rural schools in full, almost a thousand units. In addition to the buses purchased from the local budget, I think this year the problem of the delivery of students to rural schools will be fully addressed by means of special transport.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u24	Sergey Tereshuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u25	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Catherine Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u26	Katerina Vaschuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u27	Dear Dmitri Volodymyrovich! I have two questions. First. Tell me, don't you think it's time to raise the level of education in rural schools, to encourage young specialists to get there through these various government support, such as lifting, housing, and so forth. The other one. Is there a special program in the school library? And in the end, I'd like to hear from you whether you'd be worried about higher education being buried forever with the transfer to the area of vocational education? Soon there will be no metal, no locksmith, no welder, and all that. It's very important. Workers’ professions have always weighed gold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u28	Thank you, Your Honor Catherine Timothy, I'll try to answer all three of your questions briefly. As for the preparation of the labour force, I was pleased to inform you that the Cabinet of Ministers this year has increased the government's demand for labour training by 15 percent. In particular, this is especially true of the most needed specialties. In addition, the Ministry has entered into a series of serious contracts with domestic producers, which, among other things, chemicals, machine builders, metallurgy workers are now involved in the formation of government contracts in professional and technical institutions and in the organization of manufacturing practices. In this regard, I am absolutely convinced that vocational and technical education will not be neglected. Because it's being implemented for the first time in years of independence, the State Programme for Vocational and Technical Education. Over the course of five years, 3.5 billion dollars of government budget funds are available to restore and upgrade the production base of vocational and technical education. As far as transfer is concerned. The law that the Supreme Council supported in the first reading is now working on the committee, and it clearly foresees a major innovation – the three-channel funding. So the local budget, government and other contributions. Property is kept outside the state and cannot be re-profiled without the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. About the school library. For the first time this year, we anticipate the cost of filling rural school libraries in rural schools. It's a program designed. It immediately begins to come true after the printing of the textbooks has been completed. The textbooks will be completed this year by August 15th, and the textbooks for the 1st class will be completed by July 31st. I think by the end of the year we'll be able to put about 13,000 kits from school libraries and, first of all, these are rural schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u29	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u30	Olena Shustik, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, according to Rule 129, the government today must be fully composed. Please explain, first of all, why there is no minister of the interior, and I have a question for him today. On Tuesday, during mass action before the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Internal Affairs actually served as a special division of the Ukrainian Party of Regions. They're the first ones, united. They were placed, assisted in the park, blocked, and protected from anyone in a huge warehouse. Then they saw the opposition and its supporters with tear gas, beating people, and that's the undeniable facts that are in the photo and video, you can't undo it. I'd like to know who gave such a command to carry out such actions on this day, and who would be in charge of that, actually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u31	With regard to the absence of the Minister of Interior, I have informed the honourable national MPs that four ministers, namely: Deputy Prime Minister Kolesnikov, Minister of Internal Affairs Zacharychenko and Defence Minister Salamatin, are involved in preparations for Euro-2012. Just a minute. Tihypko must be present in person, he must have gone out somewhere. The answer to your question is First Deputy Minister of Interior Sergey Black. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u32	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! On June 5th, from 8 to 11 a.m. on the streets of Sadowa and Gruszewski, there was a protest against the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill on the principles of national language policy, which involved individual national MPs, representatives of various political parties, public organizations and citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u33	Yes, I invite you to the rostrum or to the foreign minister's rostrum. I invite Gristenko Konstantin Ivanovich. Constantine Ivanovich, the request -- one question at a time, one question from the faction that concerns your sphere, and then we'll be from the MPs. And the form is already in answer to questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u34	Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich! Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank you for the written questions posed by the MPs. In general, they relate to three main topics: Ukraine's EU integration course and its success; Ukraine's international commitments, including the rule of law and human rights and the model of Ukrainian foreign policy. In response, I should point out the following. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carrying out its activities in accordance with the legislatively established principles of foreign policy and the annual priorities approved by the President of Ukraine. So, with regard to the balance between the different foreign political vectors of Ukraine, I would like to point out that the dynamics and content of our foreign policy determine the European direction. An effective interaction with other strategic partners, especially the Russian Federation and the United States, is critical to us. In addition, in the world, the ever - growing new centers of power are manifesting themselves. It's a natural interest for us. This is the Asia-Pacific region and Latin America. So far, we've been running short of dynamics lately, so we're adding up. We are building around three key priorities: man, prosperity, security. This means that measures are being taken to ensure the rights and interests of Ukrainian citizens abroad. Through strengthening the economic component of Ukrainian foreign policy, diplomatic service contributes to the welfare of society as a whole. And they provide national interests in the policy-safety sphere. Of course, there are different criteria for assessing the effectiveness of foreign policy. The main three are dynamics, content, and atmosphere. About the dynamics of our contacts. Since the beginning of the year, more than 30 visits have taken place abroad at the level of the President of Ukraine, Prime Minister (6), Minister of Foreign Affairs. [[8 such Visits]] [[23]] So our contacts are active and have no limitations. In terms of content, it is best characterized by achievements in achieving our foreign policy goals. Among the key results in the first months of this year are these. On March 10th, the text of the Association Agreement is initialled, and work on the technical preparation of the text of the Agreement is currently under way. The legal linguistic check must be completed by the end of the third quarter. Next. As part of the first legislative phase of the visa liberalisation plan between Ukraine and the EU, approximately 80 per cent of the regulatory work was done. In the context of further development of relations with strategic partners, and in the context of addressing the pressing problems facing our energy, in general the economy, the issue of involving American and European companies in solar gas production in Ukraine is being addressed. Large-scale work has also begun on creating a free trade zone with a wide range of countries: Vietnam, Israel, Canada, Lebanon, Morocco, Serbia, and Turkey In the near future, we plan to intensify our work on the liberalisation of trade with our partners in the Middle East and North Africa. Systemic work is being done with Ukrainian business and regions, created by the Council of Exporters at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There was another meeting yesterday with those working in the agrarian market. Individual attention is paid to visa liberalisation. In recent times, the Agreement on refusal of visas for candidates of diplomatic and official passports with Uruguay has been signed, ensuring that internal procedures are in place to establish the validity of the Agreement on Mutual Travel between Citizens and Turkey. Literally, the Agreement on Cancellation of Payments for National Visas with Poland has been signed for days. A negotiating process is under way for visa facilitation with Australia, Canada, China, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, and Chile. Negotiations are continuing with the American side to implement previous agreements to increase the maximum term of validity of visas for individual categories of Ukrainian citizens, including entrepreneurs and tourists, from five to ten years. In the context of visa facilitation from the EU, the number of visas issued in recent times and the low level of refusal is unprecedented. The number of visas declined from four percent to about three percent. The total number of Schengen visas issued increased by 182 thousand in 2011 and reached 1.1 million. As part of the activities of international and regional organizations, Ukraine successfully chaired the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers in 2011. We are currently providing for the headship: the central European initiatives, we are actively preparing for the chairmanship of the OSCE in 2013. Work continues to support Ukraine's candidate for non-permanent members of the UN Security Council in 2016-2017. Ukraine continues to perform its functions quite successfully as a guarantor country in resolving the Transnistrian conflict. Within the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he is making an effort to prepare properly for the parliamentary elections in Ukraine. Prior to the electoral process, an invitation was sent to the Member States of the relevant parliamentary institutions for the purpose of organizing monitoring the parliamentary elections in Ukraine. May 22-25, this year, there was a mission in Ukraine to assess the needs of the dipl. The OSCE, which prepares recommendations on the format and number of an international observation mission. Now it's about the atmosphere of relations with international partners. We are aware that some of them have a critical perception of individual internal political processes in Ukraine. This refers to resonant court cases, as well as the need to support the high pace of systemic reforms, which will allow for a qualitative improvement in the activities of the entire Ukrainian judicial system and the business climate of our country. We have an active dialogue with our partners on these issues, and we are doing our utmost to promote the reform agenda, which should serve our objectives in the context of our approach to European standards. Now I would like to move on to written questions. A block of questions about Ukraine’s commitment to the Council of Europe. The first question from Yulia Timoshenko is that the co-reporter of Marietta Purbe-Lundin's monitoring committee after meeting Yanukovitch noted that he was set to meet all the requirements contained in the January resolution of PARJA. This is the reform of the judiciary, the decriminalization of the Stalinic articles condemning Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenka, the cessation of political persecution against opposition politicians. "Will the MLC keep the President's promises and in what way?" The answer. The implementation of the Council of Europe standards, as well as the implementation of the Paris recommendations, is a key priority that is set at the level of the President of Ukraine. As early as January 2011, the President had approved an appropriate plan, which was both a guide for the MCC as an executive body and for other central authorities of the executive branch of Ukraine. At the same time, it must be borne in mind that the fulfilment of our obligations to the Council of Europe depends on the joint efforts of all branches of government, both executive and legislative. A positive example of such cooperation is the recent development, preparation, and adoption of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. This requirement was contained in the January resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The final conclusion of the Council of Europe regarding the CPC pointed out that the adoption of the Code could indeed be seen as a solid basis for the creation of an honest, just and effective system of criminal justice. With regard to the call contained in the resolution by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to amend articles 364 and 360 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in accordance with the Council of Europe standards, the Parliamentary Assembly is only beginning to work to produce standards that we support in a variety of ways. The results of this important work will provide answers to sensitive questions that are of concern to politicians and lawyers in many countries today. In the context of meeting our commitments to the Council of Europe under the leadership of the Ministry of Public Affairs, Ukraine has developed an appropriate plan of action for the Council of Europe for Ukraine for 2011-2014, which is an important practical tool in the implementation of democratic reforms in our country. This plan contains 91 projects aimed at, inter alia, protecting human rights, reforming the judicial system, combating corruption, strengthening freedom of speech and social security, and strengthening democracy at the local level. A recent meeting of the Governing Committee of the Council of Europe on implementation of the plan was held at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 22 May. Together with experts from the Council of Europe, the status of implementation and possible ways of improving the effectiveness of the implementation of the document were discussed. The cooperation of all three branches of government, as well as the active participation of civil society in this process, is the guarantee of a successful and swift fulfilment of our obligations to the Council of Europe. What is at the same time crucial to the development of our relations with the European Union, particularly in the part of the ratification of the Association Agreement. The next two questions from the "BUT" faction are "Fatherland." The first is that, according to the authors of the question, the ratification of the EU Association Agreement is a serious threat to Ukraine as a result of the policies of today's authorities. Why do you comment on questions that are not within your purview, such as the maintenance and treatment conditions of Tymoshenko? You do not respond to the failure to fulfil Ukraine's obligations to the Council of Europe." And the question is, "The authorities make extremely incorrect, arrogant statements at the address of European structures, and you call the demands of the Council of Europe's only principles and values an ultimatum, an interference in internal affairs. This is a sign of self-isolation. The answer. The implementation of our commitments to the Council of Europe in 1995 has never been questioned at the official level. Moreover, with Ukraine’s formal obligations to the Council of Europe, our state has implemented almost all of them, with 2 remaining, are laws on lawyers and prosecutors. Ukraine signed 100 international agreements with the Council of Europe and ratified 78 of them. This year alone, the president and the government have taken a number of important steps. The President signed the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code after receiving the conclusion of the Council of Europe. A constitutional assembly was formed. A committee on law enforcement reform was set up by the President, and a coordinating council on civil society issues was set up. Ukraine’s Law on Public Associations has been passed. The President of Ukraine endorsed the strategy of the State policy to promote the development of civil society in Ukraine and the first steps towards its implementation. The only state register of persons who have committed corruption since the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Principles, Prevention and Anti-Corruption began. And this list is not exhaustive. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will continue its work, all necessary in the process of implementing measures by the government and parliament to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations to the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u35	Let's do it this way. Let's move on to written questions, please sign up for written questions. Lips, I'm sorry. The thing is, the machine automatically cheats everyone right now. Dear colleagues, I beg you, those were questions to the Minister of Education and Science. Please, Lukyanova, the faction. Lukyanov, excuse me, Vladislav Lukyanov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u36	Mr. Minister, we have heard your report and are grateful for the clearly presented picture in the relationship between Ukraine and Ukraine. But I would like to ask you a question: Do you think it affects our external position and strengthens it or does it not? If we respect the use of both our language and others, if we move away from conflict and become more consolidated, does your internal position allow you to pursue a stronger foreign policy?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u37	Thank you for asking. I wanted to point out the following in this context. A clearly consolidated position of society and those parliaments that represent society always help to carry out consistent and effective foreign policy. In context, it is very important that this issue has become widely publicized, that it is of interest to society, and thus allows for a broad discussion, including in the context of the commitments Ukraine has in this area. I just want the outcome to be exactly the kind of decision that would satisfy everyone in our society, and of course all the deputies who represent the different political powers. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomatic service, of course, is always easier to work when deputies from a well - held coalition and opposition from the principle of important issues find compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u38	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u39	Jaroslav Kenzior. Dear Mr. Minister! We know how, in a situation where there is a huge Ukrainian diaspora in the Russian Federation. The Russian leadership has recently made a complete purge of Ukrainian social organizations. You know that very well as a foreign minister. And in the background of our controversy over the Language Law, I want to remind you, you probably know that we have two and a half Russian language in Ukraine, over two and a half thousand Russian-speaking schools, 686,000 Russian-speaking children. The whole information space is Russian and so on and so forth. In Russia, there is no Ukrainian school, garden, and information tool for Ukrainians. The Russian Federation budget does not spend any rubles on the cultural, national and cultural needs of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u41	The Russian Federation doesn't waste its budget. We spend on the need for national and cultural needs of the Russian-speaking part of Ukrainian citizens every year on education of 3.5 billion bracelets! Please tell me, as a Ukrainian foreign minister, this situation is not offensive to you, in your paws? Dear Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u42	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Well, of these problems, I haven't reported this one time in this room. I would like to point out that, in connection with the decision of the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation to close the All - Russian Ukrainian Organization, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a clear statement. We assume that the rights and capabilities of Russian citizens of Ukrainian origin must be properly ensured in accordance with the legislation of the Russian Federation. We come from what that organization that existed has already done its utmost to meet all, including technical requirements. Then our discussion with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now around the practical solution to both the cultural and other needs of the Ukrainian community in the Russian Federation. I'd also like to point out that the situation is not unique. In some areas, such as Bashkiriya, there are really Sunday schools, there is support including kindergartens, broad support, broad support. But we come from the fact that this experience should not only be limited to certain regions, it has to be applied at a national level. This is a consistent position of ours, and we're going out of this and we're going to do everything we can to bring this to a logical conclusion in terms of making the right decisions. These issues are raised at a high political level and are discussed at the very level that allows us to count on a gradual solution to the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u44	Ostap Semerak, Faction "BUT" - "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u45	Please, Sergey Soboljevo, pass on the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u46	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u47	Minister, you, as a person who has given so much work to European integration, understand that this is a matter of all the governments that have been in Ukraine must probably be understood by no one, and this is evident from the resolutions of all the official bodies of the European Union that the liberation of political prisoners Timoshenko and Lucenko will open the way for further European integration of Ukraine. That's the first question. Your attitude toward this. And in another, yesterday's event, the acceptance of Russia's day. As you think of it as a minister, as a Ukrainian, when a Russian folk song is announced in the performance of the Cossack Choir and it sounds like the anthem of Ukraine. So how would you react if someone announced the Anthem of the Russian Federation on the occasion of the adoption for Ukraine? How officialism should behave.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u48	Thank you so much for asking. I'll start with the second one. During the reception that I was at yesterday, the text of our national anthem twice, the text, was on the occasion of the National Festival of the Russian Federation. Once it was the execution of the Hymn of Ukraine and the Russian Federation entirely in harmony with music and it was declared the National Hymn of Ukraine. The second time it was an interpretation, which, I was told, was a song that existed before it became the National Anthem of our State. And I just felt here in Cubans the desire to present it as our common acquisition. These are the people they gave centuries ago. It's you again. The National Hymn of Ukraine was executed in full compliance with the Anthem of Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Please don't create a problem in an empty space. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u50	The National Hymn, where it was performed, all the representatives of the Ukrainian authorities, the public, standing, greeted Himmn as they should. [[B in m in s a l in]] So if you're going to say that our people are essentially compatriots.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u51	Constantine Ivanovich, this is the final question. Please! Dear colleagues, I have such a feeling that you were there yesterday, and you know exactly how it went. So I'm informing you, dear fellows, that when they announced the folk song, they first performed "Stretch, boys, horses," and then they said that it was the national Cuban choir that performed that carried and held the parental roots and these roots of the country, had to be applauded, and you're doing the incomprehensible thing. And the official Hymn of Ukraine was implemented by following rules and standards. Do not create problems where there is no problem. Sergey Pavlovenko, faction of our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u52	Thank you. Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you. Please pass the word to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u53	I'm sorry, cancel Paulie. The first question was not answered because the discussion was about the second question. With regard to the imprisonment of Timoshenko and the position, I understand that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has made calls, accusations, and proposals from the European community. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u54	I'd like that. Thank you for asking, first. I'd like to point out the following. Today, Ukraine is also conducting an open dialogue with its partners in the European Union in other countries on all issues of interest to both sides. We come from the fact that there is Ukrainian legislation, there is the Ukrainian judicial system, there are questions that belong to the jurisdiction of the judicial branch. And not the MIP has to solve the issues that are being solved and have to be solved in the right plane. We also show that the trial that is under review today is not completed. We will have a discussion ahead of us in the cassation order. And it is within the framework of the Ukrainian legal field, which includes the possibility of submitting, as has been done, to the European Court of Human Rights. This process has to happen this way. We also come from the fact that European integration, this process is fundamentally important for all who are sitting in this room. And we don't take the attempt to torpedo it through any internal processes in the country, especially when we've come to the conclusion of a process where many of the people sitting in this room have participated at various stages. This is in the interests of the Ukrainian people – the conclusion of the process of approval of the Association, Signature and Ratification Agreement. And when, on the one hand, they publicly claim to support signing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u55	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u56	And they're proving the exact opposite, and that's not responding to my belief in our nation's national interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u57	Thank you. Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u58	Dear Constantine Ivanovich, most analysts who seriously analyze the problems of geopolitics and the international economy, clearly claim that in fact today there is one issue in the heart of all international relations: the fight for resources, the competition for resources. It is called gas, oil, water, and land. Not that much, four. I would like to know what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing to make Ukraine competitive, at least in gas and oil. Because frankly, in international relations and you know it as a diplomat, the vast majority or just the majority of statements, declarations are a certain camouflage of what is the heart of interest. Once again, interest is the struggle for resources. It's a tough, opaque, often unfair competition. What does Ukraine do in this regard? And that's also what you want or what you want. You now have a unique opportunity, you are supported by the majority of parliaments, create, in Russian, build. We'll be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u59	Thank you. Thank you for your questions and for your advice and for your support. With regard to the fight for resources, especially energy, Ukraine is now carrying out a series of measures. This is also the search for alternative sources of gas supply. This is also the development of a project for the construction of a creaked gas plant in the south of our country. This is the involvement of famous, world-renowned international oil companies in the search for and development of solar gas in Ukraine, which, if confirmed by previous geological estimates, will allow for a significant amount of gas production in the interior of the country for several years. It's also our job of involving international assistance to solve energy conservation problems, the efficiency of using available energy resources. These are also the negotiations that we are conducting for the best use in Ukraine as far as possible of the so-called green energy -- wind, solar stations. And finally, it's also on one side of the government's internal work to maximize the most efficient use of nuclear energy, the construction of the Dniestrów AES. A unique facility, a unique facility in Europe So this is a complex approach that combines both international and such efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u60	Finish up. Dear National Deputies! "The year of questions before the government" is over. A number of deputies, one minute, a number of deputies came up with demands, since many questions, to continue for a minute 10. I'm, uh, I'm asking you. I'll put this proposal to the vote. If you don't support it, then it's just going to be Shustik's right, and she was unhappy with the answer, and we're going to end it. So I'm putting to the vote an extension proposal for 15 minutes, one minute, and I'm asking you to answer the question according to the record that was. Please be sure. Well, what are you all yelling at? [[11:13:36]] For 101 The decision is not taken. Shustik Helen's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u61	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Our faction, however, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, reverend, would like an answer from. First Deputy Minister of the Interior on the matter of who gave the command to poison the tear gas and perform the functions of serving and protecting the Party of the Regions in the Mariana Park on Tuesday. And yet the militia with the people or the militia is a division of the Party of Regions, a special division of the Party of Regions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u62	Please, Sergey Petrovich the Blacks. Say what you said again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u63	Dear National Deputies! With the aim of not allowing the June 5 fights between participants in rallying with diverse political views, a military chain was established. The goal of this chain and the purpose of the police presence at the Supreme Council was to protect the public order of all those who came to the rally on the one hand and on the other. And this goal was met, public order was ensured, firstly, and secondly, none of the civilians said that his rights or health were somehow traumatized. On the contrary, five fellow workers, members of the internal forces, turned to them for bodily harm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u64	Dear National Deputies! "The year of questions before the government" is over. I thank the cabinet members for participating in the "hour of questions to the government." [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, 30 minutes are spent on Friday to make parliamentary inquiries. Dear colleagues, there have been 239 parliamentary inquiries in two weeks. So I would like to ask you unanimously to let me make all the requests so that we don’t have them for the next Friday. Is there no objection? No, it's not. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Danilenko to the President of Ukraine regarding the assignment of the city of Putivl Sumska District of Honor of the City of Partisan Glory on the occasion of the celebration of the 125th anniversary of the birth twice of the Hero of the Soviet Union of Sidor Artemovich Kovpak, taking into account his significant contribution to the liberation of Ukraine from the fascist invaders during the Great Nativity War. I'm betting on a motion to support the request. Please vote. [[11:16:55]] For 221 Request supported. I'm voting on a motion to refer a request to the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:17:17]] For 238. Decision taken. National MPs' groups to the President of Ukraine on the protection of the rights of children with rare diseases to adequate medical care, including in the part of the financing of medical care in the off-the-shelf order. [[Martinyuk, Ephraim, Kožemiakin, Martinenko, Simonenko, Sharov, Rybakov]] I'm betting on a motion to support the request. [[11:17:58]] For 294 Request supported. I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. [[11:18:17]] For 310 Decision taken. Vladimir Danilenko to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the lack of control by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism in the implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the 110th anniversary of the birth of Mother of Heroin Alexander Derevsky, which resulted in an inappropriate respect for the advancement of a woman who, at the ideals of good, humanity, mercy, love of work and respect for society, raised 48 children. Jurija Gnatkević to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the reasons and reasons for ignoring a number of draft legislation on language policy, such as the bill on national language and minority languages in Ukraine, registered under number 4222, much earlier than the sad bill of Sergio Kiwalava and Vadim Kolezničenko. Groups of National Deputies to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent response measures to ensure the rights of investors of Westinkombank. [[Pavlovsky, Kendzer and others]] Zinovia Skutjak to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for information on the registration of Ukrainian national deputies on June 5, 2012. Jaroslav Kendzior to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on the violation of human constitutional rights and freedoms in relation to Ukrainian citizens Vladimir Spara, Sergey Bebazza and Igor Mosiyczuk. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk District Public Administration, the Head of the Donetsk District Council for the Abolition of the Irregular Decisions of the Slovenian City Council, which are in grave contravention of the Constitution of Ukraine and which are aimed at the illegal reduction of the network of state and municipal health institutions of the city of Svetogorsk, namely, the closure of the municipal medical and preventive institution of the City Hospital No4, resulting in a grave violation of the right of citizens to receive appropriate medical care, and the criminal responsibility of officials of the Slovenian City Council for the adoption of the said decisions. Catherine Samuelk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of cancelling individual trains and reducing passenger transport. Alla Alexandrovsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the unsatisfying response to the call for State support to the State Enterprise "State Science Centre for Medical and Medical Products", Kharkiv. Basil Wooden to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, on urgent measures to put an end to the illegal pressure of district and district government administrations to head the budgetary institutions of the Ternopil region in order to transfer employees to the Nadra bank and to protect the rights of employees of the budgetary institutions of the Ternopil region to the free choice of banks through which they will be paid their salaries. Vladimir Leschchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the natural gas explosion in House No.36 on the street of 50 years in Chernigow, which took place on March 26, 2012. Vasil Blacky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of tariffs that took effect until 1 February 2011 for electricity consumers living in residential buildings equipped with kitchen electroplates or non-gas stations located in the Murovanokurylovatsky region of Vinnitsk. Basil Black to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of the road, located on the territory of the Lozuwatska Rural Council of the Lipovec Region of the Winnitsk Region. Victoria Demianchuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appeal of members of the All-Ukrainian Union of Soviet Officers of the city of Kyrovgrad on systematic cases of ignorance in the last five years of the requirements of legislation in part of the non-payment of pensions to veterans of the Armed Forces who have been released to reserve until 1990. Vladimir Stretovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to locate and install those responsible for the mass feeding of bees in the region of Tivrov. Victoria Demianchuk to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Head of the Kirovograd Regional Government Administration, Head of the Kirovograd District Council for the inappropriate response of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine to the parliamentary appeal for the groundless closure of Special School No. 2 in the city of Kirovograd and the failure of local authorities to take action to reduce the baseless pressure on students who are studying in the designated educational institution and their parents. Eugene Kzarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration for the preservation of the "Orion Machine Production Association", which is strategic for the economy and security of the State against unlawful actions of officials, the prevention of raiding, and the protection of the interests of the labour community and the state. Igor Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to strengthen state control over payments in full of targeted subsidies to farmers for the maintenance of cattle, with the aim of social support for rural farms. Leonidas Grac to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for and urgency of taking effective measures to restore the status and functions of the Crimean Republic Institute of Medical and Social Rehabilitation of Minors and on its basis the treatment of children from alcoholism, drug addiction and toxicomania. Igor Alekseyev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information and the use of response measures to ensure compliance with legislative requirements in the field of solid waste management. Eugene Zarkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the head of the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Head on the illegal actions of officials for the purpose of withdrawing the Communion Market in Odessa from municipal property, as well as violations of the rights of the city community, workers and the interests of the state. Stanislav Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of funds for the completion of the construction of the pipeline and street gas distribution networks to the village of the city type Buka Mankow district of the Cherka region. Igora Ribakova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on delays in payment of salaries for the education staff of the Gordnjan district of Chernigiv region. Catherine Samoylik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the gasification of the villages of Radensk and Proletar of the Tsurupina district of Herson. Lilia Grigorovich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse of the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Dmitr Tobacco, his service position to give birth to corruption in the educational sphere. Mikoli Rudchenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need to build a path through the railway line along the direction of Kiev - Korostin instead of the railway. Victor Sinchenk and Mikola Shershun to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the assignment of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine to remove the ecological assembly for the production and preservation of organic fertilizers. Alexander Kemenyash to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for refusing to reform the health system by shortening institutions to provide medical and dental care in the mountainous region. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the Obstacle to Activities and the Physical Impact on the Deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Peter Melnik, the City Head and the MPs of the Regional Party of the Irpine City Council. Alexander Crnvolunka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the beating and non-admission of members of the Irpine City Council from opposition and journalists to the Irpine City Council, organized by the mayor and members of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the effectiveness of the job management system for young professionals. Natalia Kraljevska to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to provide housing for those affected by the explosion of a residential house on the street of 50 years of VLXM, 36, the city of Chernig. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the verification of the improper response to parliamentary appeals by law enforcement and government authorities regarding the abuse of power and corruption of the head of the Eastern Village Council of the Lviv Region of Ivan Pilak. Which created the illusion of permissiveness and led him, 20 metres from the unique mineral source No.18, in Sanitary Zone No.1, to carry out the groundwork of setting up the road along Kotlarevski Street to his own Three Sons holiday complex at the Bouhoves Festival, which resulted in an increase of more than three metres to the ground in separate places, leading to the destruction of Source No.18. [[Oil]] Verification of the illegal inclusion in the general plan of the settlement of the East Side of Sanitary Zones No. 1, approved by Council of Ministers of the Ukrainian RSR No.339 of 20 June 1978, criminal offence of illegal land work in the designated sanitary zone, and measures taken to halt the destruction of the Eastern All-U.S. resort. Oleg Zarubinsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Consumer Rights Act and the right of citizens to return money for non-quality goods and services. Olega Lalashka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the recognition of the city of Mariupol as a zone of ecological disaster. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, the Head of State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the head of the Poltava District Administration for the non-admission of an extraordinary technological event in the military area of A1515, the village of Matyashovka of the Velikobogacha region of Poltav region, the pollution of the drinking water horizons of the Mirgograd mineral waters and the determination of the availability and conditions for the storage of remains in underground storage. Stanislav Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of the cost for the reconstruction of the road between the village of Buka and the village of Burezovka in the Cherka region. Sergei Gordienka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the State Sanitary Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the Head of the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, the Head of the Cerka District Administration, the Golden City Head on the multi-year ecological pollution of surface waters and the surrounding environment of unclean sewers from the city of Zlatanosha River Suha Zhar, Złotonoška, Kremenchutsk, Kremenchutsk, and the cause of this complex ecological situation in the villages of Hvilovo Soročin, Čechovka, Zgori Złotoni district of Cherka. Paul Silent to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the destruction of the bookstore network in Chernivka. Viacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Chief of Administration of the President of Ukraine, the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District Administration for the sale of the Irpine City Head and deputies from the Party of Regions of the city of Irpina Memorial to the dead soldiers of the Great Homeland War and the beginning of construction on the graves of soldiers of many apartment buildings. Grinevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the only and state registers. Ulysses Mistpane to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper consideration of the parliamentary appeal for failure to execute judgements in the interests of persons who have suffered the consequences of the accident in the Cheos Rokitansk, Mironovsk, Boguslav and Kagarlic regions of the Kyiv region. The Group of Greenewecks to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an incomplete reply to the parliamentary request from March 23, 2012, No. 11/10-411. Viacheslava Kovala and Alexandre Crnvolenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of Administration of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration on the underfunding of the construction of the metropolis and the lack of adequate funding for the city’s clean-up infrastructure, the garbage plant, the road in Kiev. Jurya Litvina to Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the settlement of passenger trains through the Herson station. Alexander Goodima and Yuri Karmazin are responsible for the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiological Service of Ukraine, the Head of the Odessa District Council for the immediate application of measures to remove the causes and conditions of an accident in a sewage collection near the Gribuk District of Odessa, the conduct of an examination of the facts of the commission of crimes provided for in articles 367, 239 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare and ecological balance in the Odessa area by preventing the illegal destruction of forest plants and the implementation of fishing industry for the absence of documents and the prosecution of responsible documents. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-application by the Government of appropriate measures to address the situation that has arisen at the mining and metallurgical complex of Ukraine, and has led to the closure of enterprises, the reduction of production and the release of workers. Groups of National Deputies to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the irregularity of Michael Kulinjak's actions as Minister of Culture of Ukraine and his deliberate destruction of the human potential of Ukrainian culture. [[Karpuk, Stoiko, Kenzior]] Jaroslav Kendzior to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the attempt to eliminate the National Centre for Theatre Art named Les Kurbas. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Kyiv District Administration, the Kyiv District Council, the Borispilla District State Administration, the Bilocerkow District State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective views of members of the Association of Gardeners and Gardeners of Asbest-1 of the Bilocerkow district of Kyiv Region and members of the Parus Gardening Society of the Borispil district of Kiev on violations of land, construction, environmental legislation and the use of appropriate response measures to ensure the restoration of the interests of citizens and the state. [[Bondick, Prutnik, and others.]] Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Poltava District Public Administration on the urgent need for the establishment of a hemodialysis centre for the sick in the southwestern region of Poltava, particularly for the nephrological patients of Mirrod, Luben, Gadjač. [[Prutnik, Bondik, and others]] Vitalia Korja to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the permanent delay in salaries for education and medicine in the Gordnjan district of Montenegro. Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the State Executive Service of Ukraine, the Chief Justice Office in Zaporez Region regarding the need for a thorough non-planned review of compliance with the arbitrational sanctions of the Berdjan State Department with the glaucoma of the licensing conditions for the conduct of the commercial activities of arbitrators governing it during the exercise of its powers. [[Stepanenko, Litvinov and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the State Inspectorate of Agriculture of Ukraine, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, the Donetsk District Public Administration, the Donetsk District Council, the Government Regional Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the collective appeal of residents of the village of Vladarské Donetsk on the state of environmental security and its significant impact on the health of citizens. [[Stepanenko, Soltus, and others]] Mikoli Shershun to Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to amend Ukraine's existing laws on sources of funding for the Pension Fund's payment and delivery of pension benefits. Vladimir Karpuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the improvement of the mechanisms for implementation and clarification of the Order on the Approval of the Interact between Internal Affairs, Health Institutions and the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office on the establishment of the death of a person. Group of National Deputies to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of State and State of Ukraine, Minister of State, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources, Head of the Lviv District Administration, Lviv City Head, Decision on Land Disposal and Waste Reprocessing Plant in the area of environmental disaster in the area of the city of the New Division of Lviv Region. [[Goodyma, Jojik. Total 50 deputies]] Jury Karmazin to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the use of measures for the inactivity of internal affairs bodies and the Prosecutor's Office for the theft of budgetary resources in a particularly large way during the repair of the road in the Donetsk region, particularly in the city of Krasnoarmian, in connection with preparations for the 2012 European Football Championship and the involvement of those responsible. Helen Bondarenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the status of preparations for the ratification of the European Council Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. Sergey Chrapova to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, for violations of the New Mail Society. Sergei Vlasenka to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the artificial delay in the examination of the cassation appeal by judges of the Supreme Special Court of Ukraine on the verdict of the sentenced Yulia Timoshenko on 11 September 2011 and the appeal court of Kiev on 23 December 2011. Jury of Prokopchuk and Igor Jereshka to the head of the Supreme Council of Justice, the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the use of measures to bring the judges of the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region to justice for deliberately delaying the trial and violating the oath in the prosecution of Valentina Macedonia in the commission of the crime provided for in article 128 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. Caterina Vaszczuk and Sergey Tereshuka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to restore the financing of the budget programme from preparation, retraining, upgrading the skills of workers and improving the qualifications of professionals in the agro-industrial complex. Katerina Vaszczuk to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the need to preserve the Scientific and Methodological Centre of Agricultural Education and grant him the status of the Ukrainian Training and Methodological Centre for the preparation of younger specialists. Peter Pisarczuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Protection of Labour Rights of Workers of the Skolov Military Forestry of the Lviv Region. Valery Dubil to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of building a commercial building complex on the street corner of Wojkov and the First Guard Army in Chernigów. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the right to privatize the residence of residents of a homeless dormitory located in the town of Bobrovitsa in the Chernigiv region on the street of Independence, building 62. Alexander Steshenko to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the solution of the issue of drinking water provision for residents of Sverdlovka village in the Lugansk region. Tarasa Crnovola to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the prosecutor of Kiev for the construction of a 25-story residential building on the street of Revuccik, 7-B, ignoring the position of the inhabitants of the region and gross violations of children's safety and the right to normal living conditions. Tarasa Crnovola to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Head of Government, the President of the Public Shareholders Society, the Holding Company Kyivmishkbud, for obstacles to the acquisition of property rights in housing and the violation of the rights of investors of the new building on Grigornka Street, 12 in Kiev. Sergei Pavlenko to the Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the reconstruction and construction of water networks in the village of Talova Stanično-Lugansk region of Lugansk Region Basil Gretzak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine, on a dangerous situation caused by the production of excise taxes stamps that do not match the model approved by the legislation. Alexander Trelyakov to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on receiving dividends from corporate rights owned by the State. Vasila Wondernova to the minister of Ukraine's extraordinary security situation for the Kosovo area of Ivano-Frankiv district with four sectional repair bridges of 36 meters long. Vasila Wondernova to the Minister of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine, to increase the number of regular staff of the logopedic educational system of Kosovo and the Supreme Districts to one teacher-biped to 2-3 general education schools. Ruslana Knazević to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the protection of constitutional rights by dragging internal affairs authorities to conduct an expert on the consequences of the fire. Olga Gerasimük to the head of the Ukrainian State Executive Service, the prosecutor of Kyiv’s city regarding the inaction of the State’s executive services in the execution of the court’s decision to obtain assistance for pregnancy and childbirth in favour of Oksana Maltsova. Bogdan Hubsky, head of the State Television and Radio Committee of Ukraine for the provision of disabled, veterans, participants and war children, as well as participants in combat by means of digital broadcasting signals in accordance with the legislative requirements. Sergio Tereshuka to the head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Disposal of Private Property to the villagers of the village of Kamyany Bridd of the region of Cherkas region. Valery Baranov to the head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources on the need to review the staff registration of the Berdjan State Agency for Land Resources in Zaporozhye region. Valerija Baranov to the first deputy minister of social policy of Ukraine to consider proposals aimed at improving the financial security of military personnel. Anatolia Griesenka to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the unlawful decisions and actions of officials of the Ivano-Frankow City Council, the illegal construction of cultural heritage in the protection zone, the inappropriate attitude of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Ivano-Frankow District towards the conduct of the procurator's review, which in fact contributes to the continuation of illegal construction and requires the involvement of officials. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Ukrainian State Tax Service on the misconduct of officials of the State Tax Service in the Žitomir Region and the State Tax Inspectorate in the city of Žitomir. Viacheslav Kirilenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, demands that appropriate measures be taken to establish and bring to justice those who organized and launched an attack on peaceful citizens who oppose the illegal reconstruction of the Hotel Court at the Contract Square in Kiev and the establishment of a commercial and official centre. Basil Gretzak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Tax Service of Ukraine on a dangerous situation that has resulted in the filling of the state budget of Ukraine. Anatolia Matvienka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the issue of the rehabilitation of a citizen of Vasil Ovienka by the Attorney General of Ukraine. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of police officers to restrict the constitutional rights of citizens during the celebration of Victory Day in Lviv. Anatolia Griesenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on fraud and violation of the rights of private investors to build a multi-family housing building in the village of Gostomel Irpinsky district of Kiev by officials of the company - the KYEVESTBOD BIK and the inappropriate response of law enforcement authorities to the actions noted. Vladislav Zabarski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction and violation of the requirements of criminal procedure legislation by officials of the procurator's office of the Kyrow district of the Autonomous Republic of Crime in the investigation of a criminal case. Valeria Calchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information and the verification of the abuse in relation to officials of the New Ukraine District State Administration of the Kirovograd region. Vladimir Pilpenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the purpose of examining the involvement of the village head of Zasul, the Luben district of Poltavian region of Sergey Bondarenka in threats, the task of beatings and bodily harm to the citizens of the village in connection with their defence of their legitimate rights and interests. Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal seizure of land of a unique, general Ukrainian monument to the historic landscape of the Kyiv Mountains and the Dnipra Valley under the construction of entertainment centres, hotels, restaurants, and a helicopter site by a firm that is close to the President of Ukraine, which is a manifestation of spiritlessness and vandalism. [[Park Road]] Vladimir Yavorowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, for reasons of non-investigative reasons, purchased two so-called Boyka Highs, two tugboats and vessels, which were purchased twice the market price, resulting in an unpunished kidnapping from Ukraine's budget of about $400 million. Vasil Har to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the response to unreliable information provided by the Prosecutor's Office of the Kirovograd region. Viacheslav Kirilenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the inadmissibility of the construction of the Truhan Island and other islands in the Dniper Valley in Kiev. John Mirny to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of violations of effective legislation by officials of the Kagarlic Correctional Colony No. 115 of the Government Department of Ukraine on the execution of sentences in Kiev and Kiev. Eugene Kirilchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of the position of law enforcement officials, the falsification of procedural documents and illegal possession of property. John Stoyk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the misconduct of the Prosecutor's Office of the Ternopil region. Mikoli Katerinczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the falsification of documents for the extradition of land to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate in the village of Žeželov of the Cosiatin district of the Winnitsk region and for personal control. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the consideration of a citizen's complaint to Love Parshina regarding illegal, in her opinion, a criminal offence, falsification of materials, persecution, moral and physical pressure against the applicant, with a view to forcing her to drop lawsuits and complaints against the law enforcement and public authorities regarding the illegal seizure of their property by the shareholders of the Closed Shareholders Association "Thermo". Mikoli Kulczynski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination by the Attorney General of the facts of the inactivity of the local authorities of the city of Poltava on the registration of the rights and attempts to seize the property of the citizens of the garage cooperative, which is located on the prospectus of the city of Poltava. Mikli Potapczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the situation surrounding the premises of the shopping establishment and the plot on the street of Slovakia, 5 in the city of Lutsk. Mikoli Shershun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the appeal of a citizen of Anatolia Crok, a resident of the village of Malinsk Berezniv district of the Plains region, regarding the failure to fulfil contractual obligations with Eurocreditbud and the private firm Boudsantehsservisplus to hired employees. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the fraudulent activities of Pechersnivest and the non-compliance with the terms of the contract with the listed association for the construction of the building in the village of Glevah Vassilkow district of Kyiv region. Mikli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine to check the validity of the price increase for the purchase of the Euro-2012 Olympic Electronic Information System. Mikhail Poljančić to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation, of February 17, 2011. Natalia Kraljevsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the non-admission of unlawful possession of the property of the Pansionate "Wrong", as well as the provision of stable work for the purpose of proper treatment of visitors to the boarding house. Oleg Belarus to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the unsatisfying response of the prosecutor of the Kyiv region to the appeal of the citizens of Anatolia Yvashchenka and others. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the complaint of a citizen named Alexander Parshin concerning an illegal, in his opinion, refusal to commit a criminal offence on the basis of an incarceration, a fraudulent act, the property of the shareholders of the Private Shareholders Association of the city of Lugansk, in conspiracies with other persons, the deputy of the Luhansk District Council, the first representative of the head of the Lugansk District Administration, Eduardo Lozovsky. Oleg Lalashka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect the rights of fraudulent investors in the company Poltavabudinvest. Alexander Kemenyash to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take immediate action to establish the perpetrators of the attack on the secretary of the U.S. City Council of Victor Stadei and to hold them accountable. Alexander Steshenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of immediate measures to halt illegal activities involving the acquisition of the money of a citizen of Tisakow, who was involved in the officials of the Swatov District State Administration of the Lugansk Region. Sergey Vlasenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal conduct of 24-hour video surveillance as a way to create psychological pressure during treatment at Ukraszalnica Central Clinic, as well as restrictions on the right to phone calls to the family of Yulia Timoshenko. Alexander Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the labour rights of employees of the Lviv Radio Research Institute. Sergey Chrapova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-payment of debts on salary to employees of the Dniprovski Bus Plant of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk district. Sergey Shevchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the city of Kyiv and the administration of investigation in Kiev on the case of doctor Vladislav Zabordunits, who is held in the city of Kyiv from October 2010 until now. Jury Litvina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of abuse of office by individual officials of the Kirovograd City Council and the use of measures of prosecutorial response. Sergey Shevchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal case based on the fact of the fraudulent occupation of an apartment in Lutsk. Gennady Zadirka and Vladimir KAPLIENKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inappropriate reaction and inaction of Nazcomfins and the Prosecutor's Office regarding the violation of Ukrainian legislation by the Private Shareholder Society of Prostitution in the matter of intentional avoidance of the payment of insurance to Mikola Krivonosov under the contract of compulsory civil liability insurance for the owners of transport assets. Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the extension and neglect of the consideration by the Prosecutor's Office of the question of the return to the community of the village of Novosilka of the Visgorod region of the Kyiv area of the reserve and water fund, which had been removed and transferred to private property by the previous management of the Highgarden Reich administration, clearly violating the rules of the current Ukrainian legislation, as evidenced by the findings of the abuse. [[Bullying, Chaplining, and Others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the legality of the conduct of State Tax Inspections in the Dniprov district of Kiev for an unplanned visit to the Association of Ukrainian Banks. [[Arzhivetin, Sobolev, and others]] Groups of National Deputies to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the "sticking" of a criminal case against Alexander Goodima, the People's Deputy of the 1st Call, the Prosecutor's Office for Political Purposes and Corruption. [[Matvienko, Blackwolf, Vaklov]] Mikoli Potapczuk and Vladimir Karpuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the formal response of the leadership of the Volin Oblast to the parliamentary request for the closure of Samarovsky and Velimčany district hospitals in the Wartnów district of Volin region. Yuri Odarchenka and Alexander Cronvolenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on illegal construction in the park zone and the capture of the recreational beach area in the village of the Iron Port of the Haerson region. Jurija Gnatkević to the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea for delay, gravity, prosecutorial manipulation and refusal to open a criminal case against a group of experts for a notoriously false, falsified expert conclusion in the criminal case of Mikola Larionova. Andrija Pavlovsky, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for preventing the closure or retraining of Children’s Hospital No. 1 in Kyiv’s District. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for the unsatisfying work of the city’s municipal services in Kiev for the preparation and servicing of contraventions. Vladimir Gerasimczuk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the unsatisfactory preparation of beaches and leisure zones for the new season. Bogdan Hubsky to the head of the Cerka District Council on the reorganization of the Kanów School of Culture and Arts at the Canary Institute of Culture and Arts. Eugene Goodyak to the head of the Provincial District Administration for the financing of the repair of the roads of the municipal property of Malinsky and Radomisl district. Sergei Pavlovka to the president of the state-owned enterprise "National Atomic Energy Company Energoat" on the design and construction of a pontoon transport through the South Bug River between the villages of Bogdanovka and the Kostinenovka of the Domanov region of the Mikolai region. Dear National MPs, all the requests that came and registered, were 239 -- they were made. In accordance with the Rules, two factions -- the People's Party faction and the Reforms for the Future group -- are asking for a recess to be announced so that they can announce their application. Who will speak? Paul Silent, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On June 5, an attempt was made in the walls of the Supreme Council on the lives of the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian state. The parliamentary faction of Reforms for the Future calls for all the healthy forces in Parliament and society to unite in order to protect the God-given right of Ukrainians to their native language and to preserve their national identity as the ontological basis of our being. According to Martin Heidegger, one of the greatest thinkers of today, language is the home of being. A language is lost, a thread that binds a person to his culture and to his being. And sadly, it has to be noted that at the 21st year of our nation’s existence, this house of being of the Ukrainian people faced a real threat of destruction. This is probably the goal pursued by the initiators of the bill on the principles of national language policy. By hypocritically concealing the slogans of democracy and human rights, they fake the Ukrainian people’s right to their own language, memory, history, and language of another nation. There is no absurdity in any country of the world that they impose on Ukraine. Think about it! 10 percent of the population using a national minority language in any administrative and territorial unit can even impose 90 percent of the population as a regional, or Russian, in the village! In fact, as a second national, it is foreseen to function in all spheres of social life. Not next to the state, but instead. Clearly, it is about planting Russian as the second national language. In the most brutal way. Yes, article 2 defines the development, use, and protection of regional language as a responsibility not only for public authorities and local self - government but even for individuals. What kind of democracy can you talk about here if you're authorized to intervene in private life. Article 1 provides for a standard in which a citizen is deprived of the right to determine his or her own language. In fact, it should have Russian as the first language to be spoken by individuals. And there are plenty of such examples. The ideologies of this project are sly to claim that it will not harm the functioning and development of Ukrainian as a national language, and this is because their recognition of them will give the Russian language the status of regional, that is, the second national, in 13 regions of Ukraine. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" stresses that this bill has nothing to do with the Constitution or the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u66	Thank you. Well, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u67	It's a tool for violent ruse. And we turn to all who care about the fate of Ukraine to unite our efforts to resist the outright enemies of the Ukrainian nation, and that is what we need to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear national MPs, distinguished national MPs, are we going to take a break?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u69	Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u70	Let's go, fellows of honor, one part shouts a break does, the other part doesn't. I'll put this proposal to the vote. Just a minute. Well, scream. Let's vote then. Who's to say we are. Please, please, one minute. Please. I'm putting a motion to vote so that we don't take a break or work right now, let's say not until 1:30, and then we go to 12.30, and then we go to "different." Yeah. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[12:02:24]] For 263 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 on the calculation of energy-generating companies before the state budget is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10395]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:02:59]] For 210 The Supreme Council's will, she made that decision. Please. Please. Vladislav Lukyanov, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! The draft Law on Amendments to the State Budget Act 2012 is aimed at addressing a number of current problems and ensuring the proper functioning of residential and municipal enterprises and the repayment of local budgets with different tariffs for centralized water supply and water supply services, the thermal energy that has resulted from the inadequacy of the actual cost of such services and the established tariffs for the population. [[by number 10395]] To this end, it is proposed to increase by 2 billion 400 million dollars the corresponding subsidy from the national budget to local budgets. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, after considering the bill’s committee, it was necessary to clarify the names of certain subsidies to local budgets. So it's suggested that the following changes be made: code 23111290: "the equipment" should be replaced by the words: "car transport, technology, inventory and medical equipment", under code 2311300 after the words "for the purchase of medicines" should be supplemented by the words "and medical supplies". These changes are not resourceable, but they will allow medical facilities to provide the necessary medical services. It is also proposed that subsidies be included in the sources of the subsidy payments, in contrast to the rates of income from the payment of the tax debt, including restructured or decommissioned enterprises, which provide services for manufacturing, transportation and the provision of thermal energy for centralized water supply enterprises and water from income tax and tax on added value that will increase. [[deferred]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u72	You still have time because you're both from the committee and from. Keep going. He's got four minutes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u73	from the income tax and the added cost tax, which will increase the possibility of calculating differences in tariffs. Therefore, paragraph 2 of the bill is proposed to be supplemented by the text of the following text: "Paragraph 34, which reads as follows: income from tax debt payments, including restructured or decommissioned electricity, coal industries, enterprises that provide services for the production, transportation and supply of thermal energy, central water supply enterprises and water from income tax and the collection of income tax for electricity enterprises, enterprises that provide services for the production, transportation and supply of thermal energy, central water supply enterprises and water supply companies that have emerged after the calculation of Article 23 of the Act. [[deferred]] [[In brackets!]] In paragraphs 35 and 37, replace the words "electric and coal enterprises" with the words "electrical, coal, manufacturing, transportation and supply of thermal energy, central water supply and water supply." Such changes need to clarify the provisions of Appendices 1, 3, 4, 7 to the State Budget Act, as well as to exclude from the title of the bill the words "for the calculation of energy-generating companies before the State Budget in connection with the expansion of the subject matter of regulation". So please accept the bill for registration of 10395 in a co-worked editorial committee, taking into account the additional proposals I have made on the basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u74	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I remind you that Lukyanov spoke both as the author of the bill and as the representative of the Committee on Budget Affairs. He was assigned by the committee, that's the committee's right. He's the first deputy head of the committee. Please sign up if you want to. Please, Jury's Anaustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, well, it's a matter of mutual concern. What's wrong? It's bad that we can't, what year in a row we can't do normal is in a budget that's being approved, we can't give enough grants to local self-government authorities so there's no such thing. It corrupts both utilities that increase debt and corrupt generating companies that don't pay taxes, because it still ends with each other. What's the second problem? The second problem that we have in the State Budget Act is that we don't distribute these funds by region, so we get the towel again: who gets to Minfin first to get this mutual benefit, who gets these things. So we have a very large corruption component in this process. The fact that in the end, we have to set up mutual debt, well, in principle, that's understandable. But we're back in the late '90s, when everything worked out the principle of repayment of mutual debt and so-called barter operations. Well, in the end, we have to stop at some point. When we finally move on to normal money relationships that are guaranteed that qualified people are calculating what needs should be, how they are calculated, what taxes should be clearly set, what prices should be. Whoever's planning ahead, who wins, who's treating the wounds afterwards, always loses financially, and also increases the corruption component -- "screw" and so on. We can't do that, in the end, we'll learn to make the budget normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u76	Thank you. Moysen. Moses, I'm sorry, says Blackwolf. Please, Alexandra.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u77	Dear friends, I would like to point out that when we saw this bill, we were all surprised, to say the least, including on the budget committee. The thing is, it's all mixed up here, what can be confused, and the name is confused, and look at the conclusion, by the way, a very critical science-expert management, well, it has a different name than what's here, the preparation is extremely unsuccessful. The second, dear friends, the very calculation of what's going on is also glued together, well, extremely badly. Well, imagine if, as a result of this, energy-generating companies pay half a billion taxes, what do they get? Now where do you get these two-and-a-half, almost two-and-a-half billion dollars that you're planning to make? What are you planning on doing? If you have an excess of two and a half billion dollars, give all your debts to the black people. No, instead, you're going to give money to water companies that, in turn, are being calculated with companies that are doing electricity, which are actually the money that they've returned as loans, or electricity companies, and then they're already getting revenue from which you're still trying to take half a billion dollars in revenue and half a billion in income tax and then put it into the budget and then return it back to these same energy-generating companies. Well, those citizens who listen to us to imagine who this money is given, energy-generating companies are such a soft word, and in these people, it's all called oligarchs. So in fact, the budget money is increasing the budget by 2.5 billion completely unwarranted, because in the tenth and eleventh years, these articles weren't implemented for the special fund, they're not going to be implemented now. But expenses will be made, and so people called oligarchs, and you call them energy-generating companies, get extra huge profits. Thank you for your attention. For this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u78	Please, one minute, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, what we did not have in our opposition is, no, we probably don't expect constructive ideas anymore, it's bad. Strong authorities need strong opposition. But even worse, when national MPs, apart from opposition, do not read the law without understanding the substance of the law, try to discuss something here. What's Chernobyl for? For the first time at the expense of energy - generating companies, local budgets receive pre-heating costs, and the issue is highlighted before winter, as the funds are being paid and the balance sheet accounts in place are being distributed in a calm manner. That's what the local budgets are going to cost. Take into account the law, which is the source of debt and the obligations of energy - generated companies to the state. What's this all about? That's no way to fool people, "I'm talking to citizens who listen to us." Take the law into your hands, read it, and stop screaming lies from this high court of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, calm down. Nielsia, because the factions have already come out of the faction. Dear colleagues, don't politicize the issue where it's not there. I'm absolutely in solidarity with my colleague Hanushtak, who said that this law is really vital in life, but we should be wiser in the coming years: not in the middle of the fiscal year making similar decisions, but immediately, by adopting the National Budget Act of Ukraine, to take this situation into account. And the situation is very simple. The state budget has been planning some subsidies to local budgets, coming from one price for heat and energy, and now these prices have increased according to the decisions of the national commission, and so it has to be compensated and given from the state budget to locals to make them count, and I don't see any policy here, except that politics is aimed at strengthening public budgets. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt Law 10395 amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012 taking into account the proposals from the committee that were made in the presentation of Lukyanov. [[on the calculation of energy-generating campaigns before the State budget]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u81	Only in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u82	As a matter of fact, there is no time for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u83	I object.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u84	You'll deny it later. [[12:15:33]] For 259. Thank you. The law is passed. Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u85	Adam Ivanovich! Write down that there is a denial, you can't.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u86	It's been six months, if we're still six months with you, and we're counting on the fact that we're five numbers finishing the job not being able to pass the law, we're not going to work with you at all in September, and that means they're not getting anything. Yuri Anatolyevich, the law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act is under consideration. Registration number 10497, 10497-1 is the proposal to consider a reduced procedure, please vote. [[12:16:25]] For 215 A decision has been made. Please, Bill 10497 will report to Natalia Kraljevska, to prepare for the government's Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! The task that we all face is to give people jobs, highly qualified and highly paid. What is happening in our country today? First. In the country, 1 out of every 4 people works in a shadow segment, the most active part of the working population. That is 8 million people today involved in labour migration. It is virtually impossible to find a job in the profession; today, about 20 per cent of young people cannot find a job. In rural areas, more than 30 per cent of the rural population are still unemployed. Today, the cost of working in Ukraine is not possible to live on. At the same time, the Government today offers to work at all for free; others, by their own measures, cast a shadow and push against the crime; and third people, in principle, have lost their jobs. Since the adoption of the Tax Code and the Pension Reform, the number of jobs has decreased by more than 500,000, so we should think about these terrible figures. The inadequacy of economic policy has led the country to fight, not unemployment, but to fight employers today. That they do not attract credit to the real economy today, but that they now charge all the fines and collect taxes with losses. If such policies continue, we are well aware that the number of unemployment will increase and poverty in the country will flourish. We are obliged today to give people confidence in tomorrow, and you will now choose between two bills, not between two economic models. Between the growth and employment model, the promotion of the producer and the creation of jobs, and the new high-quality economy. And you will choose between a model of reprisals, restrictions, pressures and a model of poverty. I'm asking you to support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u88	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u89	Please support our bill, which is based on incentives and job creation. To support our national producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u90	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Sergei Leonidovich Tihypco, prepare Harry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u91	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. The Ukrainian Employment Act was designed to implement the 2012 National Action Plan for the implementation of the Ukrainian Presidential Economic Reform Programme. The aim of the bill is to raise the employment rate of the population, to stimulate the growth of new high-paid jobs and to increase opportunities for Ukrainian citizens to achieve decent work. The main innovations of the bill. Employers receive within one year a hundred percent of the compensation for the only social contribution to new jobs for the following categories of citizens: young people in the first place, unemployed from 50 years of age and above, disabled persons, single parents, parents who raise children up to 6 years of age and children with disabilities, and children with disabilities, and persons who have been released from prison. One year’s reduction by 50 percent of the sole social contribution for those employers who had created new high - paying jobs in the previous year is not less than three minimum wages for which wages were paid. A small business entity that creates and employs new jobs during the year receives monthly compensation in the amount of a minimum premium for each job created. The introduction of order when the student internship period is noted in a workbook that will give evidence of practical experience and promote youth employment. We've also foreseen free, free internships for and if paid for internships, it'll also involve cancelling a hundred percent of the single social contribution on such payments. The provision of five minimum wage start-up payments to young specialists who have agreed to work in rural areas according to the country’s needs are now doctors and teachers. Implementation of the single window principle for free advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u92	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u93	to start a business. Such standards, honourable national MPs, are enough. We have reviewed the experience of many countries in Europe, the United States, and I believe that this law will greatly improve the situation in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Sign up. No, it's not. Before discussing the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Vasil Georgievich Hara. Why? Vassil Georgiyovich, please give us two minutes and we have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u95	Dear colleagues! With regard to the Royal Bill, our committee proposes that it be rejected for two reasons. Kabminovski proposes a completely new law and proposes an amendment to the existing law, with 80 per cent of the text of the Cabinet law in the Royal text. As far as Kabminov is concerned, since there is no time for positives, I will immediately say the negatives that exist. They were expressed by the employer, the trade unions and the committee meeting by the deputies. First. The bill interferes with the scope of other laws. Second. It is proposed that the management of compulsory public social insurance should not be changed. Third. The Fund's Executive Directorate is proposed to become the central authority of the State for contributions from employers and employees. Unacceptable benefit of the employer who created the job was the lack of payment of a single contribution. One contribution is part of the pension fund, insurance against an accident in the production of temporary disability. And it could destroy funds other than this fund. Next. The individual provisions of this law are contrary to the Constitution. Well, first. It is proposed that adjustments and benefits be made, which are required at the minimum subsistence level. It is proposed to reduce the maximum amount of unemployment assistance**. This is also contrary to the Constitution. And of course, it is unlikely that a young specialist would be interested in going to the village for three years just because he would be granted five subsistence minimum benefits. Today's money is 5,000 470. Nevertheless, despite these shortcomings, both employers and trade unions insist that it be accepted as soon as possible. Because our country needs him very much. The Committee therefore requests you to support the decision and to take it as a basis. We have a very good proposal today from the Scientific and Expert Management of the Chief Supreme Council, which, by the way, offers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u96	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u97	There is a proposal from employers and trade unions. If we accept it today, we will have more than enough time for September to prepare for the second reading and accept exactly what it takes. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u98	Thank you. Yes, please sign in. Cibenko, behind him – Chečetov. Vladimir Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u99	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Unemployment is a chronic disease of any capitalist society, and in Ukraine it has been extremely severe. This unworthy, unconscionable method of bourgeoisie degrades the labor force to pay workers and peasants, other hired workers do not actually earn their wages, but copies that are not enough for living or for children or for treatment. However, there are so many jobs in our country that it will not be recycled by more than twice the working population that is now in Ukraine. I would also like to point out that the unemployment rate in official documents does not correspond to the actual state of affairs. Because the unemployed are considered to be only those who are in charge of the employment centers, but the unemployed are probably 5 and 10 times more in the village. I assure you that a capitalist society will never solve the problem of unemployment, because this phenomenon is one of its pillars. To overcome unemployment and ensure the full employment of the population, the authorities of the workers must be established in Ukraine and the socialist path of development. As far as Bills 10497 and 10497-1 are concerned, the contents of both are quite similar, as if they were written by one person, although the government has more clearly covered the problem. There are, however, a number of significant observations to it, which are, by the way, presented in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. We are particularly concerned that, contrary to current legislation, state social insurance management is changing in case of unemployment, unemployment payments have been cancelled for persons who have worked less than 26 calendar weeks in the previous year, and the same applies to the level of encouragement given to young rural professionals. In my opinion, we need to adopt a government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u100	Thank you. Chechatov. Pauline's next. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u101	Dear colleagues! According to official state statistics and statistics of the international organization of work in Ukraine, there is no increase in unemployment. It's like I want to scream "Uh-oh!".. But there is really no increase in unemployment, because in Ukraine there is a halt to the process of modernizing basic sectors of the national economy. If unemployment is caused in European countries by the fact that technology is being replaced and wages are growing along with it, then we have the pressure to starve, the modernization stopped, the reform is not going, and we have another problem: the problem is extremely tense, and why it is necessary, we have a growing number of vulnerable types of people who are becoming unemployed. These are young people and people after 50 years of age. The goal is that this bill in general can solve this problem. But I do not remember in recent years whether there has been one government that would not have tried to interfere with the work of self - control organizations and the foundations of social security to transfer these funds to the general fund of the State Budget. Honorable, or we build civil society and bring people closer to government rule, or we give everything to the state. It's called totalitarianism, it's all been, there's nothing good about it. We've saved people from the stories we've had here by creating social insurance funds from industrial accidents. That's why it's a problem. And at the outgoing meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, there was an extremely heated discussion. We have come to the conclusion that we will support this law in the first reading with only one goal: to start this process so that the search dynamics can begin, indeed, effectively. The chairman of the committee said that a working group would be set up with the participation of employers, trade unions. We invite all the Ukrainian people's deputies who understand the social protection system and the workflow processes. In the way he is now, he generally works, the law won't, and he won't. I suggest you take it as a foundation. [[government]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u102	Pauline tells me, I understand, Zarubinsky. Please, Zarubinsky. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u103	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Naord Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Within the rules, I can't analyze the whole bill -- both the government's and the Queen's, because they're systemic and complex enough. I'd like to turn to those, like for me, two things that allow and encourage him already to support it as an idea and give the possibility, as the Dry said correctly, to develop it further. Not long ago, my colleague, Mikola Sherschun, the National MP, passed a bill to prevent discrimination against older and older people. Jaroslav Suhi said that this discrimination exists for people, especially with regard to employment after 50 years. Not exactly: They don’t want to go to work after 45 years, and after 40 years, and so on. The reasons are different, but the reasons that are called "Ajjism" in the West are discrimination by age. What is provided for in this bill, and what does it not take to be thrown out in preparation for the second reading? [[I mean, the government bill.]] The right position is absolutely correct when an employer who employs newly created working months young people in the first place is an apiori, I do not discuss it further: persons aged 50 years and other uncompetitive citizens in the labour market for a term of at least 2 years will compensate him for the costs of paying the only social contribution without limiting his salary. [[You can think about it -- 45th.]] That's absolutely right. The second position is absolutely correct: Persons over the age of 15 will have the right to receive a one - time voucher for professional training. [[See, it's been here since the 45th, right?]] [[Well, at 45 years old, a normal person, 15 years old, sorry, has to work in his life.]] If I'm not mistaken, 12,000 dollars. This stimulates both people and employers to accept those who need to work, who have experience that they deserve before home. Thank you. We'll be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the information that came to the chairman, this was the thousandth performance by Zarubinsky’s colleague. Carmazine, please. And Carmazine's gonna miss it!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u105	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear National Deputies, the difference is that you won't hear what I'm talking about, that I have different approaches, that I'm not in a controlled faction, so you'll never hear Adam Ivanovich's announcement. But you'll hear another, reverend Adam Ivanovich, you've just created an official crime, you've committed, under the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. You've committed a felony. Timishenko's in jail, and you're sitting here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u106	I denied that the national MPs objected to the adoption of the law as a whole. You're in violation of the law, the Rules of Procedure Act, the Constitution ignored that right, and I accuse you of committing an official crime. And I'm asking the Committee on Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u107	Closer to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u108	Take steps to restore the right of national MPs to make proposals to Law 10395 on the State Budget of Ukraine and do not make such a deal, do not do such things, it is not good. And then figure out what 365th is and what the fuck Timoshenko or Lucenko is sitting in today. About these projects. on these projects, your honor, both projects are needed, but I would like to express my support for the National Deputies Project. Why? First of all, he's making changes to a number of laws. Second, it's more specific and it fills with a certain meaning. So it's not just about declarations that are in the government project, but it's about what those who create jobs encourage. It's about encouraging both introductions and disabled people to work, and it's about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u109	Thank you. Yes, from the faction that did not speak, one minute, Pavlovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u110	Andrey Pavlovski, "The House of Yulia Timoshenko" is "The Fatherland". Dear compatriots, an important topic about incentives for employers, employment, but at the same time, I'd like to make sure that this doesn't turn from the government into another soapy election bubble. Because the motivation offered to the employer by reducing the payment of the only social contribution will destroy the already unbalanced Pension Fund. So can he look for other methods of stimulation? Learn from China. Reduce the workload on the Wages Fund. It can reduce some interest on income tax to those employers who create jobs. And I'd like it not to be another soap bubble, as it would be about the luxury tax law. Without a solution, Mr. Tihypco, the problems of black offshore holes, this is going to be a fiction of all these laws. Close the Black Offshore! You promised the Offshore Tax Law. Where is he?Oh, my God! Maybe you don't want to pay it yourself, because in your own bank of your own time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u111	Question completed. Dear colleagues, each and every one of you is right, and so are the drafters. Which, indeed, and every one of you who is now able to communicate with people, with voters, knows and feels that the employment of the population is the most painful problem in our society right now. And we'll do very well with you if we can solve this problem and maybe take even more radical steps than they are now offering to solve it. So I urge all of you to support these bills, one of them because they are alternatives. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act in the first reading, reported a colleague of the Kingdom. [[Registration number 10497]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:36:57]] For-30 Not supported. Bill 10497 is voted on the adoption of the Ukrainian Employment Act. It's a government bill. Please vote. [[12:37:30]] For 262 Thank you, copy. Let's make a profile committee together with interested authorities, ministries using that bill that the Queen has reported, and we'll make a law that will help people in this area. Dear colleagues! We're going to need to review three more laws quickly, and then we're going to come to a different level with you. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on known registration of means of transport]] Registration number 9209. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, please support. [[12:38:20]] For 201 Please, I'd like Vasilenko, quickly, here, clearly, briefly, to tell us what we're going to figure out.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! This bill had already been passed and was voted in the first reading, the purpose of it. And then it was withdrawn by me, because some were missed. The purpose of this bill is to put in place tasks to collect and distribute license plates, to carry out mandatory technical control, and to register vehicles. Here. *** State Border Services, State Special Transportation Service, State Security and Civil Protection Operations Service. In a nutshell, I'll explain, these state institutions today have a special technique and in the new legislation they need to conduct a technical inspection at private stations, which can't be at all, because there's no technology that can do this test. But to this day they have a special 9-10 mark, these are black numbers. If we let this technique go today, we take it off hold or something, they're going to bring along a lot of inconveniences, not allowing a break from the day-to-day rotation. Because of this, Adam Ivanovich, there are national MPs present, I would like to, please, accept this bill as a basis and thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u113	Thank you. Yes, shall we vote? Now. Apart from Hanustak, do others not insist? Please, Yuri Hanusztak, and we will be determined. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u114	Well, now we're going to see Chechtov's hand swinging, or thank you for voting for the second Russian language. And really, I don't see the need for this bill at all, the situation today is fully regulated by legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Not so, unfortunately, Yuri Ivanovich. You know the trouble, but you're a little bit off here. This is about allowing us to access the registration of a special vehicle that is in military, in fact, formations. In the ministries, in the departments that have something to do with this, what the reporter was talking about. I am voting on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the noticeable registration of means of transport. [[Registration number 9209]] Please be supportive. [[12:41:30.]] For 255 A decision has been made. Dear colleagues, maybe come on, Carmazin denies that I don't want to fight him anymore today. Let's vote in favour of the cut-off procedure. Please provide a brief preparation procedure so that we can consider it in a second reading at the next plenary week. Please vote. [[12:42:07]] For 249 It's going to be reduced to 7 days. We are considering a draft Act amending the Basic Health Law for Ukraine to impose restrictions on managers and employees of health-care and pharmaceutical establishments in professional activities. [[apothecary]] [[Registration number 10560]] Please support the proposal to consider the simplified procedure. [[12:42:44]] For 208 Supported. First Deputy Minister of Health, Raís Mikolayovna Moiseyenko, reports. Prepare Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! Today, too often, pharmaceuticals and medical personnel are used to promote medical products*** by representatives, manufacturers, distributors, distributors, and distributors to directly stimulate the appointment of a particular medicine. This leads primarily to a violation of the patient’s rights. Thus, in order to guarantee the right to health, to respect the constitutional rights of citizens proposed today, the draft law imposes certain restrictions on the professional activities of medical and pharmaceutical workers involved in the appointment of medical medicines. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Aunt Dmitrovna, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the Committee considered the bill on 6 June. Considers it important to support it in first reading. The main objective is to protect Ukrainians, both from quality drugs, which, of course, have a direct impact on their health and to protect their economic interests because of the recent increase in the number of advertising and imposition of drugs in treatment, prevention facilities, pharmacies and pharmaceuticals. And, of course, today we must limit this to the fact that the World Health Organization is providing statistics: mortality on the planet is the fifth largest product in the world. Therefore, in caring for the health of every Ukrainian, we must also take administrative responsibility for those who impose their drugs. At the same time, the bill also prohibits denying information or providing reliable information on the availability and prices of other analogues of medicines. I am deeply convinced that this is the subject that the President, the Cabinet of Ministers, is initiating today, and of course supports the Supreme Council. Please support me on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u119	Thank you, Aunt Dmitry. Shall we vote? Now, now. Yeah, except for Sergei Shevchuk? Matthew. Nobody insists anymore? Please sign up. Because, right, because I can't give all the factions two minutes each. And you'll see who. Please, Zybenko. Get ready for Sulkovsky. Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u120	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues! The reporter made the basic provisions of the proposed bill very clear, and this really shows that such a law is essential today. Aunt Dmitrovna spoke about the positive aspects of this law and what it would do to improve the health care of our population. But I would like to highlight another important point. That the adoption of this law is, in our opinion, necessary primarily for the prevention of a possible conspiracy between health care professionals and manufacturers of medicines and so forth. Distributors, employees of institutions, other institutions that provide medical supplies, or other medical facilities. And, of course, with regard to the distribution of these drugs to patients or to one or more other medications that we face today in practice every day. And we are very often called upon by our voters to adopt appropriate legislative measures to alert us to such a state of affairs in the field of health. Therefore, the Communist faction will support the bill unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u121	Paul Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u122	Paul Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know that in years of independent Ukraine, every year in this field, there's an apothecary about pharmaceutical supplies that haven't been produced in this market. And it has been shown that today the population of Ukraine has never experienced such disgrace as lies with these drugs. And so finally, the people of Ukraine should first thank President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, who drew attention to this and put it. He took control of the case and entrusted it to the government. And this law is finally born. I also want to thank Tetjana Dmitrovni Bachtevi, who is constantly caring and struggling to improve the medical situation. Today, we must show courage, patriotism, and there should be no voice in this room that will not press the button behind such a bill. So I don't think it's even worth discussing here. And finally, we have to vote and order, and we have to spend these drugs, and we have to take control of the government not by 20, not by 30, but by 50 percent. And there's going to be a lot more of these apherists who today are fooling sick people who end up selling houses, selling everything in the world to buy those drugs and heal, and continue their age on this earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u123	Arjevitin says Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u124	Lilia Grigorovich. Dear colleagues, well, I really don't doubt that Parliament and all factions support this legislative initiative. Although another button has to be pressed to sign up for the discussion. Dear colleagues, the head of the committee and the Ministry's report on the fact that the death of a forger is much scarier and more criminal than the death of a man without a cure, because in this case a person pays for killing or poisoning him. And this is where order is to be made, because Tuesday we ratified the appropriate Council of Europe Convention, where we practically made commitments. And I think there's a number of drafts that are in development today. But there are some important things to say. I have no doubt that after this law has worked a little bit, we will still have to make appropriate changes to administrative legislation, because it is life that will fit, well, and in accordance with this law. When it works, we'll see that the pharmacist can't be the main link all the time, which will tell us which medicine is cheaper or less expensive. What was the measure of responsibility, your own conscience? Let's see how this law works. And one more thing. I would like to point out that, of course, we have to spend the drugs in the first row, the most used. But at the same time, the patient should receive not the most expensive, but the most optimal, the most effective, and the most high - quality medication. I very much hope that if we support this bill, we will start working in that direction. We support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u125	Sergei Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! Medical advertising can be public – through the media, it can be personal, it can be individual – through a doctor or through an official. In this other direction, there are a lot of abuse, and we know it, and we realize that sometimes the wages of a doctor because of such advertising are higher than the official wages. This should be stopped, so the law should be adopted in the first reading. It can't be accepted in general, Adam Ivanovich, I say right now, because there are some questionable things that apply, for example, to the principle of cheapness: that a doctor should inform the patient which drug is the cheapest. [[or an employee]] Any of you guys want to take any of the drugs you find? Can it be the most effective? But the question is quite different. There were several times thanks to the President, and I also want to thank the Interigirian for raising this question so quickly, but the question is why a medical officer is forced to go to pharmaceuticals. But it's very simple. Because a doctor's salary — a surgeon, a therapist, a pediatrician, a gynecologist — is much less valued by the state than it is in Belarus than it is in Russia and even in Moldova. I thought that the left factions would now talk about it instead of thanking the guarantor, because today the President’s Administration has been reforming health care for the third year. Where are the results? The results are absurd. It is entrusted to a person who has a status. She once had the status of associate professor at Kharkiv Politics, and she is in charge of health reform. There are no positive results. I'll tell you what, Your Honorable Powers. Reform is needed, but the backbone of this reform should be the figure, the personality of the doctor, the medical worker, and not the reduction of the network that is being proposed today. Therefore, in the first reading, we need to accept and work hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Question completed. I propose the adoption of a draft Law amending the Basic Health Law for Ukraine to impose restrictions on managers and employees of preventive and pharmaceutical establishments in professional activities. [[apothecary]] [[Registration number 10560]] Please vote. [[12:54:38]] For 308. Copy that. There is a proposal to vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for second reading. Please be supportive. [[12:55:01]] For 280 Thank you. And let's do one more. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning the licensing of imports of medicinal products and the definition of the term "active pharmaceutical ingredient"]] [[Registration number 10562]] Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[12:55:37]] For 208 Dear colleagues, I understand, but understand us. Today, instead of half an hour of questioning -- if we followed the Rules, we'd read half an hour -- we'd read more hours. So it's... it's... And you want the questions to be read? Because last Friday we didn't work. So come on, this is the last bill. Reported the head of the State Service on Solovov’s medical devices, Alexei Stanislavovich. Please. And get ready for Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act provides for amendments to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the requirements of directives and other European Community instruments. The European Union has a clear mechanism for regulating the activity of imports of medical devices by authorised regulators. Unlike the countries of the European Union, there is no mechanism for regulating imports in Ukraine. As a result, untransparent offshore import schemes, the absence of protection for Ukraine’s internal market, against possible imports of non-profit products, are the result. In order to ensure compliance with European legislation, an importer of medical devices planning to import medical devices into the territory of a European State must have an authorised representative or other legal person who is fully responsible for the safety and effectiveness of the imported medical device in that State, in accordance with the national legislation of the EU Member State. In doing so, the importer must ensure that a proper quality system is in place that meets the requirements of the GMP, that qualified personnel, first and foremost, are available to the authorized person, that a transparent certification system for each imported batch of medical devices is available. The importer’s authorized person guarantees that the medical device is quality, safe, and effective, and fully complies with the requirements of the registration file. It is the importer who is responsible for the disposal and destruction of medicinal products if this product is withdrawn. Thus, taking into account the experience of the world’s leading countries, it is necessary to implement a clear mechanism of government regulation for importing medicinal products according to international and European requirements. Also in the current Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, there is no definition of the term "activities intended for use in the manufacture of medical devices". Therefore, we suggest that the definition of an active pharmaceutical ingredient be brought into line with European requirements. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u129	Thank you. From the committee, Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u130	The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the committee in charge of the bill, decided to submit it to the Hall for consideration. I request that it be adopted on first reading and by reduced procedure, ready for second reading. I didn't take a minute because I knew I was going to speak, and I also wanted to be thanked by Mr. Ganustak for voting for the Language Act. I'm not saying no, I'm proud, I'm telling Ukraine, I'm proud that I voted in favour of the Language Act. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because it is by this law that we create comfortable conditions in the language environment for representatives of different nationalities of our multinational Ukrainian friendly family. But I would like to say to the voters of Western Ukraine that most would never have been able to vote in favour of this law if the BUT faction had not helped us if the Front Change did not. With your silent consent, we voted, thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] I am speaking to the voters of Western Ukraine, I hope that the Fatherland and the Front of Change will be consistent and in second reading also quietly, smilingly, create an enabling environment for us to adopt this law on second reading and thus create the most comfortable conditions for our Ukrainian people, the multinational people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u131	Sign up for the performance if you have. The reply will be after the discussion. Please, Moses, follow him. There will be a line, Moses, please, then Ganushkak, please Ganushkak. Yuri Ivanovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u132	First of all, please don't screw it up. I just thanked you for being a very skilled conductor. And you give the command to thank the previous speaker for voting like you did. And that's why we don't have to mess with the people who listened to us, especially because they're smart enough to figure out which one of us says more or less correctly. As far as the bill is concerned, it would not be desirable for the rules to be determined by Kabmin, not here in the hall, the import rules, the remark that must be made on the second reading of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u133	Please, Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u134	Yuri Carmazin. Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. I will take a joint position with Mr. Volodymyr Moses on this bill. The bill is, in principle, necessary and, unfortunately, so stated in the current law on medical devices that the procedure for importing them is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Another question is that if the government agreed that it would be better and more transparent for Parliament to set such rules, maybe it would be much better. It's not quite clear to me, as it is to the Scientific and Scientific Administration, why we're saying that the expiration date for these drugs is no less than the second term. The term "use control" has to be serious in Ukraine. And I wouldn't want it to be the law, because of the definition of the term, and because we're now writing the exact right thing to do about reinforcements that actually reinforces control to increase the corruption component and then end up on medication. And I'm going to vote in favour of this bill, I just want to answer to Chechchev's colleague. You know, I'll answer you in Russian, although for the Russian language, what you voted five numbers, you did more harm than you can imagine. You just don't understand what you voted for or how much of a provocative bill you've drafted in the Russian Federation's FSB. You have been drafted a bill that aims to “success” Ukraine's “dismemberment” by a language principle. It was not the Russian language that was cooked there, it was used to make the federalization of Ukraine, only to the district level. Just so you know. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, although mostly talking about other matters. I put to the vote the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine was adopted in the first reading. [[concerning the licensing of imports of medicinal products and the definition of the term "active pharmaceutical ingredient"]] [[Registration number 10562]] Please vote. [[13:04:07]] For 264 Can we take it as a law now? Oh, no? Then let us vote in favour of the reduced procedure of preparation. [[13:04:32]] For 253 Offer supported. Dear colleagues, that's enough for today. I'd like you to sign up for "Virgin." Replica was expressed by Ganustak. The one he thought was necessary. I didn't interrupt him because he, I didn't interrupt him, he devoted half of his speech to answering the line. I repeat, there was a line. And Hanusztak replied from the faction. You're gonna have to call him. Please, Pavlovsky. Prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u136	Andrey Pavlowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block - Fatherland. Dear fellow countrymen, first of all, I address the Chernobylites, the Afghans, the children of war. I would like to point out that under the cover of the scandal over the language law, Bill 9127 was passed, which was originally planned by the authorities to cut down social benefits, helping 16 categories of citizens. They took it, they say, in the first part. But there are problems in the first part. Because the money that the Afghans, the Chernobyls, the children of war and the other socially vulnerable will receive, not as they are used to, but through the authorities of the State, at the offices of the Pension Fund or the relevant social services. And the State Department is in charge of law enforcement. There is not yet a mechanism for the payment of these court decisions. So this question is a threat, it can be delayed for several years. Because the law states that it will enter into force as of 2013 and the government's mandate to draw up appropriate normative documents on these court payments until the end of 2014. What does that mean? That black people, Afghans, children of war, other categories of citizens are rightly condemned by them, by law, their increases are additional money. Won't they be paid for their pension? That's why it's a problem. And I think we need to support the appeal, but yesterday, the Supreme Council of Chernobyl and Afghans, and I think we need to support their appeal to President Yanukovic, not to sign the bill, but to veto it. Because it's a threat that, despite its name on the guarantee of enforcement of court decisions, it can make it difficult, or maybe it's actually making it impossible to pay for the money that people have won from the state in the courts. I would like to point out that the authorities have declared that it has begun the restoration of July’s payment to a thousand from June 1. But they didn't get that many. Why? Because they wrote that first they get those who are over 80 years old, next year who's over 70 and so on. Well, that's propaganda. And also, notice that the prices for food, for utilities, have increased by a factor of two or three, officially. So you have to pay it, not pay it back, but you have to pay it off from Vitti for at least 2.5-3 thousand dollars. That would be fair. Because this is what people need primarily from an older generation to eat.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u137	Yes, please, Taran. Get ready for Smellow, Prestenka, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u138	Victor Terrence, Fatherland Party, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Well, actually, I'm talking to people, and by doing this, I want to draw the attention of Ukrainian society to what's coming to them. Well, good people took a lot from you, if that's not all. They took a decent standard of living. The Minister of Anti-Ukrainian Education of Tobacco and such as he has taken away Ukrainian education, taken away basic human rights, wanted to take away your Ukrainian language. They took away justice and imprisoned Julia Timoshenko. And now the last thing is that people still want to take away their passports. My point is, they're still trying to take your passports. And I'll tell you how and why it's done. And it's not black fiction. This is the keynote address of the Tolstenka bill, which is actually a government bill. It's just given, let's say, by other authors. And the whole point of this bill is for people instead of passports to be taken away, to issue a passport to a Ukrainian citizen, to say you have a passport. This bill appears in Parliament from time to time. And I want society to raise its voice to protest. I said we'd give you passports, like the rest of Europe. But that's not true. Because in Europe, passports are hard to match European standards. In Europe, the passport is in line with the ISO requirements. In our passport card, which is proposed, there will be the same taped photograph as before, which has been banned by the ISAO since 2001 after the New York terrorist attacks. I mean, even if today's passport is imperfect, why change it to a passport, and it's not just an assessment of the opposition I'm in at this time of sadness? The 12 pages present the conclusion of the scientific management. And this conclusion clearly states that replacing passports with passports will call for changes to the huge bill array where the word "passport" is used. So who needs it, and why does it need it? Answer number one. This replacement is needed for for forgeries in elections. People need to know. The other one. Answer number two. This change in passports will cost the budget 3 billion dollars. That is, in truth, the government's substitute for gold, which is trying to carry out its bill, Deputy Tolstenko. And I'd like people to know that. It's getting ready. And together with the MPs, who are at least a little bit behind justice, we should not allow that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u139	I'm sorry, please. According to her, Grigorovich is handing Moses over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u140	Respected Adam Ivanovich, respected voters, the scientific community of the Crimean Astrophysic Observatory expresses its protest and outrage at the planned establishment of the so-called landscape park, which is stifling most of the territory of the observatory. The planned park, designed to accommodate a distance from public science, will cause irreparable damage to the Crimea Astrophysic Observatory and will make many scientific research impregnable. This tragic experience has unfortunately already occurred for the astronomical observatory of Uzhgrad, Lviv, Odessa and other towns in Ukraine. The creation of the Crimean Astrophysic Observatory in 1945 to 1955, after the most severe and bloody war, highlights the public significance of fundamental science in general and astrophysics in particular. At the same time, the Crimean Observatory was built only after special explorations in various areas of the Crimea over a long period of time. At that time, the Soviet Union adopted a decree establishing a three-kilometre protection zone around an observatory that prohibited any construction without agreement with the USSR Academy of Sciences. Space exploration conducted in the Crimean Observatory has brought world news to her. At present, it is Ukraine's largest observatory, with 9 telescopes of national ownership. I would also like to point out that many Governments have an understanding of environmental issues. The world view of its citizens is particularly important in astronomy, as evidenced by the attention given to, for example, astronomical institutions in Chile, the Canary Islands and the United States. At the same time, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, in violation of its own Order of 2 October 1997 on the manner in which the Crimean Observatory protects, adopts a programme for the establishment of an environmental network in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which establishes plans for the establishment of a so-called landscape park directly adjacent to the south-eastern part of the observatory, i.e. in areas where monitoring is most frequently carried out. The Observatory team requests assistance and protection of the unique scientific institute of the Crimean Astrophysic Observatory. I request that this statement be considered as a request by the MP to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to issue a legal assessment of the decision of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea in respect of the violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u141	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u142	on the violation of the Order on the Operation of the Crimea Observatory Protection Zone, the Minister of Environment and the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u143	Thank you. Vladimir Moses. To prepare for him, Jemilev is handing over Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u144	Vladimir Moisik, Party for Ukraine! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies! Last week, I had a meeting with the voters of the famous Cologne, and I was approached by workers and the management of the Cologne Experimental Plant PRUT, a former woodworking plant, with hundreds of people looting, looting, stealing, and fewer than a hundred of them, losing their jobs and not getting any money. Let me remind you, respectable voters, respectable colloquials, that the woodworking plant began operating in 1947. He made furniture, classes, equipment for schooling, kindergartens, colleges, and in the 1980s, he was the best enterprise in the former Soviet Union. Today, this enterprise belongs to the Ministry of Science and Education, which is run by the famous Minister of Tobacco. What happens to the factory today, the colloquials don't know. The debt of the factory to the people on salary is 400,000, to the tax authorities up to 300,000. And rumors in the city are spreading. Some say that the factory is privatized with the fact that a forest piece of colossal land in its center reaches monetary areas. Others say that the plant is transferred to municipal property. Others, and this is the head of the tobacco minister's apparatus, say that the factory has been included in privatization under a large privatization programme by 2014, but the producers are said to be neither sweet nor bitter. Because whether it is privatized or transferred to municipal property, the factory does not work, the wages are not paid and there is no worst job. I assure the colloquials that I will do everything I can to make the factory work and no matter who it belongs to. And for the rest. Dear colloquials, dear voters! The law on language, which was adopted on June 5, this year by the "factions of the State Duma of Russia" in the Ukrainian Parliament, is a Communist faction, a faction of regions and communists. Members of the Gosduma in the Ukrainian Parliament, carcases. The law on language will not pass. Ukraine will have the only native Ukrainian language. And I turn to those of the factions who voted, who, with their mother's milk, suck up their native language, do not betray both their language and their mother. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u145	Arjovitin, please. Get ready. Shustik's handing over Korja.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u146	My presentation is dedicated to the dangerous large-scale construction of small hydroelectric power stations in the Carpathian region. I am tasked with informing our voters about the situation surrounding the uncontrolled construction of more than 550 miniGES in Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankivsky, Lviv and Chernivsky areas. [[It's Davemuk, Kosov, Helmet, Tuck, Stojko, Goodima, Arzhevtine.]] Upon learning of such large-scale plans for the construction of miniGES, the public of these areas held a multi-thousand rally, protesting that 330 small GES were expected to be built in Zakarpat, 150 in the Ivano-Frankiv region, 150 in Lviv, Chernivecki in a few decades. The construction of such mini-hejes was envisaged at the expense of investors, according to a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, giving them certain preferences. The school for the environment from the already built 10 small GES is obvious and significant: rivers disappear at many kilometers, and they are launched into special pipes. In Carpathians, most of the new small GES are designed at the top of the year. Rivers have little water at the top, so to produce as much electricity as possible, it is projected to consume large volumes of water a year, and virtually all the streams. Instead of a living stream, there is a dry moat that is covered with stones. Instead of a few miles of rivers, we can get a few miles of metal pipes. And the problem is not just the distortion of natural sights. Taking the main part of the water from the rivers will cause a whole range of environmental and socio-economic problems. These include the disappearance of aquatic organisms, the deterioration of tourism potential, the activation of negative geological processes. A group of deputies, which I have already announced, made a parliamentary request, which was announced in March of this year, in the name of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. What did we get? We got the answer that today the State Department has identified 45 potential sites for small hydropower plants, but based on public hearings, only five small hydroelectric projects have been agreed upon: 4 in Ivano-Frankivsky and 1 in Zakarpatsky. Today, in Zacarpatski, Ivano Frankovsky, Lvivsky, and Chernivsky, 10, four small - hydropower objects are planned to be built in 2012. According to the Ivano-Frankov district administration, the construction of two is now stopped. The construction of a hydroelectric power plant in the Zakarpatsk region was also halted. So it's a little bit better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u147	Vitaly Corge. Get ready for Stemashenko. Popescu, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues! I speak at the request of teachers and medical personnel in the township of Chernigovishte. Education workers and doctors in their letters to me in writing and verbally point to the evidence of a consistent destruction of these areas by means of a regular delay and an incomplete payment of wages. By the end of May, school workers were paid only for the first half of April, including the salary paid for the first half of April, only on May 7. Teachers are also concerned about the fact that they also have an adequate salary during their annual vacation and a month’s salary allowance, in accordance with article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Law, will not be paid in time. Medical personnel at the central district hospital in the region of Montenegro report to me in their letter, quote: "In the last three months, we receive a salary with a delay of one and a half months. We have problems not only with the payment of utilities but even with the purchase of food, not to mention all the other needs. Our wages are low and we get them nervous, because we don't know when that's gonna happen. And all of this is happening against a constant rise in prices, tariffs and various payments." This letter was signed by 46 workers in the central district hospital in town. And even though doctors and educators are not regularly paid at the proper time, they are regularly given an ultimatum from Black Gas: "Dear subscriber! Please pay your dues for March until the end of April. Otherwise, the gas will be cut off without warning and the case will be referred to the court.” In addition, there has been a clear trend in recent times to pay not only late wages but also in parts. At the end of May, the region’s salary debt in the budget area is 3.8 million dollars, particularly for education students, one million 811,000 dollars, and for health workers, one million 438,000 dollars. Salaries for cultural workers, social protection for other budgeters, are also owed. According to the chief of finance management of the non-producer sphere of the Chernigiv Observatories of Love Aleksyivna Žukov, the debt owed to Montenegrin budgeters is 497 million dollars. Educators and physicians suggest replacing the funding mechanism of budgetary institutions in such a way that the only authority responsible for financing schools, out-of-school institutions and medical institutions is the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u149	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u150	At the same time, educators and doctors are determined to demand that the leaders of the State stop feeding people with promises to improve their lives and with various initiatives. They warn that this game has reached a dangerous limit. Please consider my statement to be a parliamentary address to the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u151	Ivan Popescu, get ready, Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u152	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! From this rostrum in different ways, I usually only raise the questions that voters ask me when I work in the district. Today I will remind you of some of the problems that I have already raised from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. So last year, I was happy to report that for the first time in the school bus program in the Chernobyl area, 30 buses were allocated. At the same time, I insisted on the need for a bus to be assigned to a school in the center of the village of Lower Petrovci Szorzenicky district, where 314 children from different hamlets and parts of the village were currently being trained. A bus would be a real gift for a village that celebrated the 600th anniversary of the first historical mention and 400th anniversary of the first mention under the modern name. I'm reporting that there are several artistic dance and folklore groups in the house. These include three of them from local school students, who are winners not only of local, regional, and republican levels but also of numerous international festivals, but also require transportation. In 2010, I would like to point out that, for the first time in 2010, the members of these teams on the Inter channel had performed the Hymn of Ukraine in the language of the national minority, the Romanian minority. And for this reason today, during the Year of Government, I had a conversation with the Minister of Education, Dmitr Tobacco, who reminded me of the need for a school bus to be delivered to the Lower Peters School in the district of Czerniewice. And I hope that by October of this year the problem will be resolved. The second question concerns the state of the roads of regional importance in the Deep Sea region, namely on the plots: Petrichanka. Suchevenas, Cup, Korčica and Privatka, Stanovci, Turatka. Which will soon prevent you from going by car. So I'm refocusing my attention on the need to take steps to do repair work at the respective sites. Please consider my request to the Minister of Education, Mr. Tobacco, and to the head of the district government administration, Zacharyuk Mikoli. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u153	Black Will, please prepare for Silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u154	Dear friends, I would like my statement to be considered a parliamentary request to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, to the Central Electoral Commission and to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And it will talk about the fact that, contrary to current legislation, and contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, the MPs from the Party of Regions and the Party of Regions as a whole have launched the electoral campaign on time. In doing so, they began this campaign to bribe Ukrainian citizens by resorting to corruption. I'd like to draw the attention of our citizens to a lot of high-rises, as well as other advertisements that hang along the roads, all over Ukraine, where they smile, they laugh at them, they're threatened by MPs from the Party of Regions going to major districts. Dear friends, I would like to assure you that only the members of the Party of the Regions have the opportunity to "screw" all over Ukraine, and all the others, the companies involved in external advertising will always be able to do so. This is an instruction, or they won't exist as advertising companies. In addition, I would like to point out that it is these members of the Party of Regions who, after the election, want to be members of the Party of Regions, distribute rations, distribute money, and do other corruption activities that bribe Ukrainian citizens, the population of Ukraine. And these are the obvious corruption actions that the Ukrainian Security Service and the Ukrainian Prosecutor's Office should be doing. Because when mass elections in the state are held as a population bribe, it is a deeply corrupt state and there is absolutely no economic success in this state. Because no investor will come into this state because he will know that it is a country governed by bribes. That's why they don't go to that state. And there's more. I would like to draw attention to the fact that still in Kiev, after the city’s head had retired, the unappointed election of Kyiv’s city head. Moreover, on purpose as a deliberate insurrection, one could say that the Kiyevrada session, at the suggestion of Secretary Kyivrada, appointed the Kiyevrada session on July 12th, though it was to be in August. This statement should be considered at a session. If they consider this application on July 12th, only the secretary will serve for 15 days with the Supreme Council, which will not work at this time. So the election will not be scheduled for at least the fall, and then 60 days can be counted. And this is a gross violation of the right to self-government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u155	Quiet, please. Get Bondarenko ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u156	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, on June 5, as is known this year, 234 national MPs on the first reading adopted a bill known as Koleschenka and Kiwalova, actually written at the Institute of CIS Zaturin. By breaking the oath of a national MP and defaming the Basic Law of the State they represent in Parliament. The open lobbying of the language of the neighboring state, which was and is the language of the imperial occupation, severely limits the functions of the national language, damages national values, national culture, and national information space. The party of regions and its satellites legalized their contempt for everything in the Ukrainian language and demonstrated the criminal intention of dividing our nation by language. What inevitably leads to the creation of various political and administrative zones and the destruction of the Ukrainian state. The new ravines have set the stage for linguistic conflicts in the centuries - old Ukrainian lands. But even though the Russians of all political arts know that they are outside the law? The constant dissension of a society burdened with serious economic and social problems will cause a storm. The slyness of regionalism is masked by the interests of national minorities. But it immediately makes them deaf and blind when it comes to the fact that the Russian Federation has not ratified the European Charter of Languages, which is the only Russian language in all the autonomy, countries and areas of the country. Even though there were 20 million Ukrainians up until recently! There are about three of them left. Citizens of Ukraine! Let's stand by our rights! And let us use all possible methods of constitutional protest and resistance! We call on the Council of Europe to warn that Ukraine is becoming a zone of European instability. The reference to the European Charter of Languages, which is called to defend for. language is actually a disguise of denationization and destruction of the language of the indigenous Ukrainian people. Let us not let our Ukrainian language, which today is the biggest opposition to the ruling regime, be imprisoned. Let's not be afraid! With us our famous grandparents, with us national heroes, our prophets Taras Shevchenko, John Franco, Lesia Ukraine. Let's stay together! Let us not waste our soul, our Ukrainian language! Let's party! Let us resist. We need to create everything possible, a public movement in every direction so that we can continue to do what we did in protecting our rights in our own state, and we will protect them. This is the completion of the central administration of the All-Ukrainian Education Society since yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u157	Bondarenko. Behind her is Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u158	Olena Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Dear Ukrainians, 2 days ago the award of the international award for the name of the unacquired knight of the Ukrainian spirit, Eugene Koncević. The founders of the prize are representatives of Ukraine, the United States, Canada, Norway, Russia. Eugene Koncevic is one of the true symbols of the Ukrainian 1960s, which broke through because of Ukraine's will. In the nomination of "literature", the award was awarded to a large Ukrainian writer, Lini Kostenko, in the nomination of "politics" – the leader of the Ukrainian opposition, the heroic man, Yulia Timoshenko. This is indeed a very symbolic event. Eugene Koncevitch, a young man who had been bedridden with a severe illness, has demonstrated during his life the amazing power of the spirit, integrity, and consistency in the struggle for Ukraine’s will. His life was an example of courage worthy of imitation. Likewise today, Julia Timoshenko, who has been illegally imprisoned by Yanukovich’s current regime, has been unjustly imprisoned, has not seen a human rights officer in prison as a political prisoner, and jailers have led to a serious illness. Julius Timoshenko remains an example of the struggle for freedom and justice, the right to human dignity, and the right of the nation to defend its shrines, including the national language. The Yanukovic regime destroyed any Ukrainian hope of a normal life, swinging at the national language, the tipping points of power manipulated the instincts of my Eastern countrymen, because the minds of Donbass residents have long since been unaware of the perjurers who are tirelessly improving their lives except for their own and their own families. Speculation on a childish issue for society is also about trying to distract people not only from social decline, but also from political repression, the pressure on opposition, the destruction of free speech and thought. It's an attempt to divert attention from the repression of Julia Timoshenko. Once Ukraine is divided, the Ukrainians are welded, and behind the scenes are looted, tortured, and destroyed by the people’s defenses, smothered with tear gas, and beaten with rods of bold men who defend their language, country, and freedom. Let us follow the example of our heroes! Let us be strong and united! Glory to Ukraine! Thank you, Julie!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u159	Acid. After him, he's a good guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u160	Respectable compatriots! The hysterical statement by the BUT faction in the defence of Timoshenko, which they had announced at the beginning of the plenary meeting, had demonstrated that they feared that they would understand abroad: Timoshenko is not a political prisoner. As Vice-President of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on EECU, I formally approve: the information provided by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Azarov, is absolutely reliable. That is why both Timoshenko and her protection are doing their utmost to prolong the consideration of the case on ESA in essence. And if the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Litvina, were to be dealt with in good faith on the application of BUTT, the Ukrainian society would also be convinced abroad that, in the case of Lazarenko, for which he was sentenced to nine years in prison, Timoshenko was being held as an accomplice. This is confirmed by tens of Lazarenko's statements, as confirmed by financial documents, including accounts, by bank accounts that confirm the transfer of millions of funds to Lazarenko's account from Timoshenko's accounts, also confirmed by Federal Prosecutor Martha Bersh. I think it is time today to ask the question of the return of funds to Ukraine from the ex-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Lazarenko, outside Ukraine, which is not much or little, about $300 million. And that, let's say, not hilo, is 2.5 billion bracelets. And in conclusion. Even the insolence must be limited. It is impossible to create shame and lawlessness, steal budget money, try to get away from responsibility while calling for a foreigner to be regarded as politically motivated purely criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u161	Eugene Good. Get ready for Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u162	Good boy, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Fatherland. The inhabitants of the Malinsk, Radomisl, and Korstoszów districts of the Žitomir region assigned me to speak out of the Supreme Council’s rostrum because there is another environmental disaster, such as Chernobyl. There was a serious threat of dehydration by a U.S. police force. In the high-level offices of NAC Nadra Ukraine, they decided to wave an ecological ax at people's health and mine out the areas of these areas of almenite ore. Only the Torchinsk family, Korostišovsky and Radomislski districts, are over 6,000 hectares [6,000 ha]. The Malin region, which is about 4,000 hectares [4,000 ha], is a village in Malin. I have the address of the inhabitants of the Chopovi Village Council, the Barwink Rural Council, a total of 7 populaces with more than 1,400 signatures of men who rebelled against the intention of extracting titanium. Also, 204 signatures were collected by the people of Modelova Radomisl district. In the eastern part of the village of Torchinka Korostišovsky district, on May 18, the community decided not to give consent to the development of almenite ore crops. The communities of Tchaikovsky, the Philippine Rural Council of the Radomisl district, also speak against the mining of the limenites. But the authorities fear the people, they don't go to these meetings. Moreover, the harassment of the people of the village of Modeleva by law enforcement authorities began. What are the risks of producing almenite ore in three areas of the Žitomir region? Answer: Dehydration, environmental insecurity, and health. Speaking in Torchin in front of the village community, the director of the NAC subsidiary Nadra Ukraine, Zitomirboudzka, said to the villagers: from the beginning, you will have no water at a depth of 25 meters. On April 25 in Chopovishte, the deputy head of NAK "Nadra Ukraine" Maximtsov stated that the depth of his career would reach between 25 and 30 meters. Recycling will take place for 20 years. The main thing is that the water will be tamed. Because of the lack of water - treatment facilities, the quality of drinking water in these areas does not meet the standards. All-time supplies are available for only 65 percent of the population. In addition to dehydration, they will be exposed to soil and air, plant and animal life. At the risk of Malinsky and Irshanski Falls, natural customers and most important is the health of our children and grandchildren. The Zitomir police have been destroyed on several occasions, this is a melioration, that is, an unwarranted drying of the pain in the 1980s, an intensive deforestation, granite careers, water pollution, and then Chernobyl. The fact was that Zitomirsk began to take first place in cancers, anemias, chronic tonsilites, bronchitis, and so forth. In the days of the Soviet Union, after analyzing population density, hydrogeological conditions, the uniqueness of the nature of the U.S. police force, government men and the military-industrial complex were able to contain their appetites and used only one – the Iršan heritage. Yesterday, the Zitomir District Council, despite all the decisions of the village councils, made an illegal, terrible decision to grant the first permits for the development of titanium-Ilmenite ores, i.e. it began genocide against its own people. I'm addressing the prime minister of Ukraine, the minister of the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u163	Finish up. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u164	Prime Minister, Minister of Environmental Protection and Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u165	Mush. Behind him is Cowchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u166	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. The venerable Ternopil community, President Viktor Janukovic, stated that the issue of corruption is one of the barriers to the development of our state. To overcome it, we need to remove the official from the financial resources. The people of Ternopolska fully support the initiative of the head of state to stop the corruption of the Wakhanalia and to cleanse the authorities of those who are spoiling the name of a public official. We have already seen corruption as a threat to economic and social development. Few district administrations are held accountable for bribes. Individual heads of administration and councils, such as Bučica, Gustinska, and Zbrazka, felt like local princes, forcing the community to look after themselves and their families. It came to the point that the head of the Butchik regime, Vasil Sauka, brutally beat the teacher in front of the children, and the law enforcement authorities not only responded to the crime but also acquitted him by saying that they did not see the crime. Thus, the issue of combating corruption is as important for Ternopilska as the preservation of statehood, Ukrainian language, and the area. Because corruption takes on new subtle forms, officials who went to cosmopolitan schools create various charitable foundations like Galicina-Volin, which not only make money go up, but also destroy the President's and the government's gains by ascribering them to themselves. Today, a whole series of friends from various areas disguised as patriots and benefactors, our saviors with you. By promising the golden mountains and even by teaching them how to love the Ukrainian language and the land, tomorrow they will be among the first traitors of our interests, traitors to our land. I'm sorry and ashamed that these Cossacks are accompanied by the authorities, giving them a green road. To make up for that, we joined together in the representation of Ternopolska. Together, we will not only allow ourselves to be humiliated and exaggerated, but we will also place the shoulders of the head of state in the fight against the disgraceful phenomenon of corruption and remind officials of their powers given to them by the state and the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u167	Kravchuk, please follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u168	Basil Krawczuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." I want to reach out to you, fellow countrymen, to reach the heart of those who have given up their faith and have convinced themselves that nothing depends on him, that we should not go to a rally, not just a drink, a protest, but not even a polling station, saying we should be deceived and solved without us. It's only been a few days since June 5. I was approached by hundreds of people with a desperate question: What happened on that day and did we lose our native language? Why did the opposition not die on the barricades? Why was this room not torn to pieces by the Party of Regions for the sole purpose of carrying out a criminal bill? After all, the efforts of many of our patriots are ruined by a gang of foreigners in just five minutes of the session. I saw people in whom, after the news of the adoption of the language bill by the Party of the Regions, their hands and voices trembled. I saw people who did not believe that some horde in jackets and ties had succeeded in five minutes of January raids and looting the Ukrainian sanctuary. To you and to all those who are willing to fight I want to say the following, the opposition factions in Parliament have repeatedly argued that they are ready to defend Ukraine's interests. I have a right to speak about this as a person who spent a month in the hospital after the Party of Regions broke the Kharkiv Accords by force and blood. Then, you remember, another crime against our nation was committed by a powerful majority, loyally to another country for all time. In a parliament run by a speaker under close supervision and control by the Party of Regions, fighting itself was the only way to resolve the political opposition around the country's resonant issues. So today's parliament doesn't need teachers, teachers, doctors, agrarians, this Parliament is looking for cut ducks in the mid-'90s, because there's a right to power. And the right to power is the only rule of today's Supreme Council. On June 5, enemies of the Ukrainian language blocked the parliamentary rostrum, blocked the presidency, took the mercenaries, and blocked the streets around the Supreme Council. There were militias in the street in a frat room talking about their fear, they were afraid of how patriots reacted to rallying and opposition in parliament, fear forced them into vile manipulation with the order of the day, they attacked the Ukrainian language just as suddenly as the aggressors did during World War II. But I want to make sure that this number doesn't go away, and I urge Vasil Kravchuk to withdraw the bill from further consideration and stop the political speculation on the language issue. I promise to fulfill the oath of a national MP, which states that I am committed to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u169	Master, get ready, Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u170	Ulyana Mistpane, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland Party. Ladies and gentlemen, the constituency, the problem that I now want to raise from the Court of the Counting Council, concerns the social benefits of the black people. Yesterday we discussed the subject in this room. I personally met the rallyers at the Supreme Council and heard them think about all of us, sadly, I heard nothing new. In my constituency — Rokitnian, Mironowski, Kagarlicki, Boguslavsky, and the city of Rziszów in the Kyiv region — again sees a scandalous situation with the failure to execute court rulings on the social payments of black people. By the end of last year, the Government of Mikli Azarov, with the support of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, had temporarily removed the tension that was at that time taking on a dangerous turn. We still remember the rally near the walls of the Supreme Council, covering roads, starving in district cities, and even the death of a rallyer in the city of Donetsk. What about today? In fact, it's the same thing. District courts continue to make external applications, to consider them, to make decisions in favour of consumers. And then these court decisions are accumulated in local pension funds and until the state budget allocates the funds. People and even pensioners are not sure how long these decisions will be theoretical, or virtual. The situation is very similar to the direct deception of Chernobyl pensioners: the decision is, the money is missing, and it is unknown when they appear. And there's another question that's extremely acute. Why the Chernobylites of Boguslawski, Rokitnjanski, Mironovsky, and Slavitić Kyivsky region have stopped paying social payments since September 1, last year, with the decision of the courts. In general, in Ukraine, this took place on November 1, 2011. Two months earlier, pension and social benefits were substantially reduced in these areas. There's no explanation for that, so people think about it, and these choices don't adorn the legislative or executive branch of power. After many complaints, I prepared a parliamentary appeal to the Cabinet of Ministers, which was well addressed to the Ministry and hence to the Pension Fund. Here's a soccer game, but the whole government is jamming its own gates. That bill that we adopted yesterday on the execution of the court's decisions will in no way solve the matter, only stretch it out in time. As a result, it is necessary to commit the pension authorities to execute all court decisions concerning social benefits as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u171	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u172	Yes, by ensuring that they are executed at a cost. And that's what will restore faith to the government and the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u173	Can I have a glass, please? After him is Kovalova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u174	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! My presentation was prompted by a critical situation that resulted in the distribution of district radio programmes in Koryukovsky, Korobski, Seminowe and Sosnic regions of the Chernigiv region. The district radio, according to the licenses of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio, speaks in Montenegro on the first channel of radio "WIW-1" at 2 o'clock a day with morning, day and evening blocks. In the village of Holma Korukowsky district, at the local radio station of the Chernigian branch of the RRT concert, which provides for the distribution of the radio programme, a replacement of the transmitter was made for a more modern one operating in the FM range. Accordingly, last year the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio Broadcasting announced a competition for its use, in which Chernigiv’s Regional Broadcasting Company also participated. Regrettably, the results of the competition did not result in a district radio license for language. It was given to Ukraine’s National Radio Company for 24 hours. So the Montenegrin branch of the RRT concert had to stop providing services for the distribution of district radio programs on this radio transmission station. And the district radio disappeared from the local air in Koryukovsky, Korobski, Seminovian, and Sosnic regions. There has been a situation in other areas where there is no radio in the air, and in four areas there is no radio in the area. This sparked fair complaints from the radio audience. They appeal to the national deputies of Ukraine, state authorities, and local self - government to resolve the issue of the restoration of district radio at the radio transmitter station in Holma. In view of the fact that this issue can only be resolved by amending the Ukrainian National Council's licence for television and radio broadcasting, I am addressing the leadership of the National Radio Company of Ukraine with the proposal to restore the sections of the language "Chernigian District Radio" in the local broadcast of these areas. Moreover, on the rest of the broadcasters that broadcast the radio programmes of the SD-1 network in the area, the Montenegrin Regional Broadcasting Corporation and the National Radio Company of Ukraine have been speaking after a coherent network for decades. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u175	Julia Kovalova. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u176	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Citizens of Ukraine! Today, I would like to draw attention to the measures taken by the authorities to stabilize the situation on the pharmaceutical market in Ukraine. First of all, the signing of a memorandum between the Government and the organizations representing manufacturers and sellers of medicines, medical equipment that took place yesterday. For the first time in independent Ukraine, there is a consistent policy of providing people with affordable and quality drugs. Since the beginning of this year, at the direction of President Yanukovic and the decision of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Government has intensified its work on drug trafficking. In my view, the priority measures to address the situation on the Ukrainian pharmaceutical market should be to strengthen State control and stabilize drug prices. In this context, the signing of a memorandum with manufacturers and sellers is extremely important. There is a 20 per cent reduction in drug prices, which are included in the mandatory range of socially oriented medicines of domestic production. This will make them much more accessible to socially unprotected and underprivileged citizens. The achievement of an agreement with producers is a very important but not a first step that makes the power to ensure the availability of quality medicines. No Government had attempted to regulate the drug market before joining the Party of the Regions. The Government of Yulia Timoshenko has shown the greatest failure to manage the situation on the pharmaceutical market. The price of drugs grew rapidly, and the artificial restriction of the retail allowance did not yield anything, as mass medicine was transported through off-shore zones. Moreover, even public procurement was made at excessive prices and unwarranted amounts during that period. Then, millions of bracelets were burned for unnecessary use, such as the destruction of 9 million doses of measles and rubella. And of course, everyone remembers the situation with the famous Tamiflu, which was purchased 20 years ahead of schedule and has expired and has already been written down and destroyed. Even to destroy this drug, the State has spent millions of bracelets. Such actions by the previous authorities have led to a critical situation where the State has virtually lost control of the drug market and only in the last two years has the Party of the Regions succeeded in regulating the pharmaceutical market. In Ukraine last year, drug quality assessment laboratories equipped with modern equipment were employed, and the quality control system is a serious national network located in every area of our country, and in 2015 we will complete the process of resupplying them because it is a matter of national security.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u177	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u178	I call upon representatives of all factions, both the majority and the opposition, to join forces and to adopt, as soon as possible, those bills that we considered today, yesterday, on the market, on the pharmaceutical market. And adopt these bills as quickly as possible. This is very important for the life, for the health of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u179	Yuri Carmazin. Behind him is Volinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u180	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition. Dear Ukrainian people, I am addressing you because there are five of us left in this room. I want to address you with the problem that it was possible yesterday, five numbers, to amend the Constitution as a result of the adoption of the so-called Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Judgments, and in fact I want to call it direct and frank fraud by the State or how not to execute a court decision. They wanted to correct article 55, which reads: "The rights and freedoms of man and citizen are protected by the courts." The amendment was decided by part five of article 124 of the Constitution, which states that judicial decisions are approved by courts in the name of Ukraine and are required to be enforced throughout Ukraine. That's what the law stipulates, the Constitution is our basic law. But unfortunately, this day in the European Court of Human Rights hearing 3,000 400 claims against Ukraine, which are wholly or partly related to such problems, and the number of these claims is increasing. The terrible figure that the state has now owed people 230 billion dollars. This debt continues to increase. Obviously not to execute these decisions, and so - called decisions have been made that have been made, the so - called law. And what's more, my briefing on the Council with the head, with the headmaster of the All-U.S. Association of Chernobyl Veterans, Prokopenko Peter Andryovich, was circumcised. And that's why you didn't hear the demands of the Chernobyls to the President. And they called for: to apply the veto to the Law on State Guarantees for the Enforcement of Decisions, to meet with the President, to oblige the Government to implement the Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, to oblige the Government to bring the Cabinet Order of 23.11.2011 into conformity with the Constitution and articles 8 and 22; to oblige the Government and the Pension Fund to end the shameful information war committed by officials against Ukrainian Chernobyl, to commit the Supreme Council of Ukraine to enact the laws of the Pavlovsk and Karmazin National Deputies; to oblige the government to end the information war that is waged against the black people all the time. Dear people's deputies, I'm addressing you, you were wrong when you passed this law. I want us to now defend the rights of all the categories of citizens that are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u181	Thank you. Volincian Eugene. He's been followed by Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! Once again, we all have to make sure that the bourgeois State and the market system are indifferent to people, that the benefits and benefits are the basic principles of the functioning of capitalist society. This was fully felt by the employees of Shahterski Bread in the town of Shahtersk, Donetsk. The company shuts it down, shuts it down for no apparent reason. Some 250 people are at risk of being fired, and that is to say, they are at risk not only of themselves but of their families. The management of the enterprise has already drawn up reduction lists. In order to save costs, it reduced the working week, thus forcing workers to resign at their own request. This is despite the fact that the factory is a winner and winner of numerous competitions. In 2011, it was recognized as the best enterprise in the area. The Chechter Breadworks had been famous since Soviet times. The bread was mined and remained the most delicious in the region. I don't know, 'cause both me and my family are eating mined bread directly. And what's more, there's fish on this bread in Yalta. And believe the locals, for 10 years, there's no fish for any other bread in Yalta. The range of products produced by the factory was about 10 recently. Now only 2-3 species can be found in stores. If the factory is closed, the bread will be imported from Red Luch, Enakiyovo, Snowy and even Harkov. But the inhabitants of the region are convinced that such luxury as fresh bread will simply not be available to them. It is clear that the idea of eliminating an enterprise could only be born in the heads of modern life-owners for whom human life, as well as a plant that has been supported by several generations of workers, is no more than an ordinary means of personal enrichment. The company has always stood in the interest of the people of work, so we will make every effort to ensure that the miners continue to enjoy their fresh baking and that the rights and interests of members of the labour community are respected. I call upon all those who are not indifferent to the fate of a once-glorious enterprise to participate in the Communist protests aimed at protecting the enterprise. We can't have 250 employees on the street! Only by unifying ourselves will we be able to resist the arbitrary will of the oligarchs and their controlled authority. There's no victory without a fight! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u183	It's a mess. And behind him is the Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of language is not an exclusive challenge to Ukrainian society. Since the 1980s, humanitarian issues have become a major theme for the work of security services to weaken neighbouring countries and promote national interests. Yes, by manipulating human rights issues, Canada passed a law on second national language. Accordingly, all documents of the authorities must be drawn up in both English and French. This greatly complicates the work of the administration by causing its hidden opposition. The language issue was accelerant to the breakdown of the state, which is not formed because Quebec is a plano-donationist and is not in a hurry to get off this needle. Even greater problems are caused by a seemingly democratic solution to the language issue in Belgium, from the collapse that saves only the uncertainty of the status of French-speaking Brussels, which is surrounded by Flemish communes and the presence of a few German-speaking communities. The wise Swiss, whose three peoples are destined to live in one state through geography, have solved the language problem simply: knowledge of German, Italian, and French is compulsory only for officials working at the confederate level, while in most cantons only one language is national. The crafty French use the language issue skillfully, generating through various European institutions up to one and a half dozen language papers without ratifying any of them in their own parliament. While its neighbours — Spain and Italy — met with regional elites, they had serious centrifuge trends. In the Middle Ages, if religion had a serious impact on the nation’s creation, in the 19th century, ethnic roots played this role, the most important sign of the State’s identity today was language. This is well understood in Russia, which, even as a Federation, limits the use of others except Russian, languages, knowingly destroying them. While the foreign policy of the Russian Federation is focused on a permanent humanitarian expansion that is objectively conducive to the economic intervention of the Russian business and to the implementation of Russia’s strategic interests. The fact that the Party of Regions is implementing foreign policy is well understood by its leaders and sponsors. It is remarkable that this dirty mission is entrusted with the task of articulating mancure mainly with Ukrainian surnames. However, even a slight improvement in pre-election ratings does not compensate for image losses for a party that claims to carry out its own policy. Strategically, pro-Russian rhetoric will inevitably lead to its marginalization, as has been the case with many screaming parties exploiting the nostalgic moods of the electorate. Ukraine is changing, a generation born in the 1990s is gradually entering social life, and it has been deprived not only of the illusion of rebuilding the Soviet empire, but also of the fears of forced Ukrainianization. And with the strengthening of an independent state, with the emergence of symbols and objects of pride, there is a growing sense of autonomy from the world. Moreover, in Ukraine, apart from Crimea, Ukrainians make up the majority, and this fact will work sooner or later. This is how a nation is formed, the Ukrainian land has a unique capacity to transform into Ukrainians anyone who settles on its territory, let it take a decade.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u185	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Hare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u186	Thank you. John the Rabbit, the Ukrainian National Party. Dear fellow countrymen, for 20 years now we have been proud of your peace and tranquillity on Ukrainian soil. We are justly proud that we did not have any wars, especially on the ground of language. But now I want to warn you, peace and peace in the country under great threat. This threat is posed by the language bill of the Party of the Regions. I appeal to all of you, the patriots of Ukraine, to express a strong protest against this bill. There are three things in this language that need to be understood. First, is this the question of the purpose of this bill, whether it is for evil or for good? The second is the way the bill is put forward, whether it is a gang or a deputy’s will. And the third. This is the question of the responsibility of the MPs, the President, for this bill. So it's about setting up a bill. Its authors and pushers are pathological Ukrainianophobics. It is the very existence of the Ukrainian state, because they know that the largest building house of any state and Ukrainian in particular is language. So if you take the English language out of the official sphere, if you take it out of your life, there will be no state. And that is the kind of bill that is proposed today. Because there are standards that allow the local council, even if there are ten people in the community, to adopt the Regional Language Act and replace the Ukrainian language. If even migrants there, Chinese or Vietnamese, or anyone else, arrive at a community location and do not want to learn Ukrainian, they can reach that official language. This will divide Ukraine. This is going to divide it not only by political signs, but by linguistic and ethnic. It is a very dangerous thing to look at Yugoslavia and even the former Soviet Union. We need to get out of the fact that language is the home of the nation. And if you ruin the language, you destroy this nation. We have a peaceful home. Why Build Others? Why build one that will set us on fire to Ukraine? These are our deputies. These are the gerastrates who want to set Ukraine on fire. For this bill, 16 billion dollars will be allocated. Today, our people are not going to end up in the end, and they're going to have 16 billion dollars left, and this money is going to start a war between our citizens. The Ukrainian People’s Party strongly opposes such policies. And the question of political responsibility. Every MP has to understand that by voting for this bill, he's crossing everything that was done by the Ukrainians, that he's letting a snake of interpersonals into our society, and society has to know everyone by name. He needs to know who voted from the Lithuanian faction with cards. Twelve cards voted in favour of the bill. Whether the Lithuanians voted "carts" with foreign cards or let them go to work. So we'll protect the language, we'll protect Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-08-m0.u187	Yes, dear fellows! All who wanted to take part in the talks took advantage of this right. Let me remind you that according to the calendar plan for the 10th session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call from June 11 to 15, national deputies work on committees, commissions and factions. The plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, June 19, at 10 a.m. The commission, those who have asked for the form of an address, please prepare. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
