ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. And given your attitude, I think we need to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council that will oblige the congregation to win today. Turn on the "Race" system. [[16:01:56]] Cards were registered in the 413 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. And considering that we have a lot of questions, respectable colleagues, the 21-hour job offer, and then just for football. A draft Act amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code is being announced for consideration. [[on the appointment of a pension to convicted persons during the course of the sentence]] [[Registration number 9773]] Suggestion: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:02:47]] For 206 Decision taken. The reporter is Oleg Ivanovich Tishchenko. The reporter is Vasl Gritzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u2	Thank you. Oleg Tishchenko, "BUT" faction, "Paternity", "Paternity Party". The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, to make the proposed changes under this law is due to the fact that the current legislation of Ukraine does not provide for pensions for convicted persons who have obtained pension rights during the course of their sentences. For such citizens, it is only possible to obtain pensions after the execution, which is a direct and gross violation of their constitutional rights. The most vulnerable in this regard are those who have no prospects at all to receive the pension they have earned before they commit the crime. In addition, convicts who have lost their jobs in the course of their sentences today have the opportunity to form a pension and receive adequate compensation only after their release from prison. If a person who is permanently imprisoned loses his job, no valid legislation provides for retirement or compensation at all. The draft law provides for the establishment of a pension for the sentenced person who has acquired the right to a pension, directly during the execution of the sentence at the place where the correctional facility is located, by providing the administration with the necessary conditions for the establishment and assignment of the pension, including, if necessary, by calling on the representatives of the Pension Fund of Ukraine to prepare the necessary documents in accordance with the established order of the necessary documents, either directly from the person who receives the penalty or from the representative on a notary assignment. The findings of the Chief Executive Board, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Intelligence, the Pension Service, the Pension Fund are positive. In view of the above.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u3	Microphone. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u4	Yeah. And given that all the conclusions are positive, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u5	Thank you, too. The report has the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vasil Gretzak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u6	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the assignment of pensions to convicted persons during the course of the sentence]] [[Registration number 9773]] The draft law provides for amendments to article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, complementing it with part three, which prescribes a mechanism for the exercise of the right to a pension acquired during punishment at places of deprivation of liberty. The changes proposed by the project are as follows. Yes, according to article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, persons who have acquired the right to a pension may exercise their right of retirement only after they have been released from their places of deprivation of liberty. That is, according to existing legislation, a person who is in need of work and who is deprived of liberty at a pre-retirement age is also deprived of the right to retire from a place of deprivation. The project therefore proposes that part five of the article cited should be made available in a new edition, the substance of which is the right of those sentenced to retirement and compensation for damage in cases and in the order established by Ukrainian legislation, irrespective of their release from punishment by expelling discrimination from it on the existence of this right in convicted persons after their release from punishment. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a basis. The committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Enforcement (as regards appointment).
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u7	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u8	on the assignment of pensions to convicted persons at the time of the sentence) as a result of his consideration in the first reading, to be accepted as a basis. [[Registration number 9773]] Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, no comments? Can we vote on the basis of this bill? Who insists on the performance? Please sign up. They're desirable. Please sign in. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Then Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u10	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland", Ravenshkina. Glory to Ukraine! I want to win today’s collective Ukraine! To win is to prove that Ukraine is a European and an athletic state. As far as the bill is concerned, there is obviously a problem that has already been discussed. And I think that on the basis of the perspective of this bill, given that today there are political prisoners who are illegally convicted, such as Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenko, and actually will change power, obviously soon, and then those who have made wrong decisions, the wrong decisions -- the Kirievs, the Wolfs, they will be punished, but, well, leave them at all without a pension, maybe even if at least, because otherwise, what they will do when they are all executed. Hence, justice must be restored in relation to those who are illegally condemned and, in the case of those who are, well, given a piece of bread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u11	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u12	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I think that each of us had to think for the future, it could be different, time shows. That's why we're voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u13	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, despite the fact that the committee has supported this bill, it's worth working on, because it's about finance and making this decision lightly, I don't think you should do it. At the same time, there is no need to politicize the matter. Because all the speeches that sound, who's going to judge, who's going to do it, I wouldn't want our colleagues to have a dialogue like that. I think that this bill needs to be rejected and further worked on. If we have to settle some issues under the regulations, let's see, but this is a matter that needs to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office also believes that a bill can be recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending article 122 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. [[on the appointment of a pension to convicted persons during the course of the sentence]] Please vote. [[16:11:14]] For 124 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work. Please be sure. [[16:11:40]] For-73 The decision is not taken, the bill is rejected. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on improving responsibility for urban delinquency]] The Committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to a vote. [[16:12:13]] For-187 Decision taken. The rapporteur and co-rapporteur is the first deputy head of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law Enforcement Activities of Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! A party of regions wants a united Ukraine of victory and a sign of solidarity with this victory of the scarf suit. And we urge the Ukrainians to make a killing for the congregation. Now to the point. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Law is to remove gaps in legislation and to clarify the provisions of legislation. The bill provides for amendments to articles of the Code of Administrative Offences relating to the powers of the Staterichbudinspection and its territorial authorities to deal with cases of administrative offences, as well as to specify the type of infringement of part one of article 96 of the Code on Administrative Offences. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the results of the first reading of the bill suggest that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further development. The committee believes that the adoption of the bill will help to improve the mechanism of responsibility for urban delinquency. The Committee thus recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading plenary session of the draft bill. I want to point out that this bill contains essentially technical amendments that are based on the practice of law enforcement. The problem has been identified in practice, and legislation needs to be improved to solve it. We therefore propose to adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this bill. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I immediately apologize, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I have pressed the red button, and I will support this bill. And the thing is, in this session room, we've talked over and over again about the need to increase responsibility for the rough construction violations that we're seeing with you right now. I'd like to ask you, colleagues, when you're going to the Borispil Airport, take a look to the right, near the village of Gora: one area, five hectares, a second area just recently, one hectare. Hundreds of oaks and hundreds went under a knife, and there someone wants to build something for himself. You might ask, how much did this cost our business people? And 70,000 bracelets -- and the Kyiv District Administration decides to remove a hectare of forest and transfer a man there to do farm work. That's ridiculous and absurd. Then these agricultural works will turn into something else, and now there's a gas station, and there's a piece of forest, like a piece of lungs covering the city of Kiev is gone. And we have these things all the time. When you fly a plane to Kiev, look up at our forests. But they were kind of beaten up by moths like these, seen these woods to look at, or something like, the poor builders were glued there. I think we should support this bill unanimously because, at least to some extent, it will increase the responsibility of the builders for making and making themselves. In general, even mass protests by people do not find any support from officials. I also received a letter from the district attorney’s office, which tells me how it happened. A fraction of the forest was placed under the water. Imagine the paradox, the forest was given to agricultural work. Then the forest stopped, cut itself out, and the damage was estimated in penny. And I'm asking you very much who wants a lot of forest under Borispol 60-70,000 gravel and a hectare of forest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u19	Do you have everyone? Thank you. Yuri Prokopchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u20	George Prokopchuk, "BUT is the Fatherland" You know, I totally agree with the previous speaker, because of course and not only under Kiev, but around all the big cities there's really no more forest, lungs and anything else. Because under Kiev, the residence of Mezigira is taken away, the forest is cut off. We've actually got separate parties, and more precisely one, everything is actually in our hands, and it's destroying the forest. And it's supposed to be a good law. But what's really behind this is the budget that the Party of Regions broke up with Yanukovich, including the fallouts, including the international community now, as it really went to Euro. It's now an attempt on the part of the citizens who don't give God, a bitch on a tree will cut down, apply fines to cover this lousy budget. That's why this law can't be adopted in that way, because it's meant to come out of people, not from those who really stole the hectares, as I've already calculated, Yanukovitch and his entire scroll, and those who are said to be able to cut off a dry bitch and then sit in prison like illegal convicts and Timoshenko and Lucenko and other political prisoners. That is why this law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill should be returned to work. A proposal is made by the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Improving Responsibility for Urban Offences. [[Registration number 10139]] Please vote. [[16:18:58]] For 253 Decision taken. A draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons is being announced for consideration. [[on the size of pensions in case of loss of a breadwinner]] [[Registration number 9724]] Suggestion: To consider the matter under reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:19:35]] For 218. Decision taken. The reporter and co-reporter is Anatoly Gritsenko, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u22	Your Honor, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, I would like to inform you immediately of the decision of our committee in this bill, which was unanimous. And the request to the Supreme Council to support this bill in the first reading. Now I'm going to explain the point of this bill. It's really about justice and morality, in fact, about the restoration of justice and morality. According to valid legislation, we have two classes of Ukrainian citizens, the harsh word "sort," but that's how the state treats them. The first category is civil civil servants. The second category is military and comparable categories in all power structures. Not only the army, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the internal forces, the border guards, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Security Department, which protects the highest officials, all of these people. What is the point of immorality and injustice now? If, God forbid, a civilian civil servant dies, his wife will be incapacitated to receive 70 percent of his wages. If, God forbid, he dies in the line of duty, which is often the case, a military officer, a police officer, and other force structures that I have called, his wife will receive only 40 percent of the, I would say, less than a civilian civil cashier. The state values the life of a person differently, and that's not fair. There's no way to explain it. Our committee receives hundreds of letters from all regions because of over 30,000 100 people. Including the last resonant deaths that were on Odessa when the gang was neutralized, and the Berkutu fighters, and the militias who died in the same humiliating conditions, and those armpits that are sometimes shot on the road, and any other people in the heathens that the state took to service to protect the interests of the people and the state. The purpose of the bill is to put civil and military conditions at the level, not in better military conditions, but in those with civil civil civil servants to receive them, their families, more precisely, in the event of the loss of the breadwinner, had the same compensation and had the opportunity to live in peace. This bill had already been introduced, and it was unsaidly accepted by the General Legal Office. He had been preparing for over a year, and meetings were held on the committee with all the power structures involved, including the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Another factor, the Minister of Profit and Social Policy, is Deputy Prime Minister Tihypco Sergey Leonidovich on direct air in Savik Schuster's program, who promised that the government would support this bill. The bill is worth 281.8 million dollars. This is small money, compared to the amount of the budget, you can find it. But given the problems that might exist in the government, we suggest that we put it into effect as of 1 January 2013 so that we don't even break the budget process. Please support this bill. I know there's an arrangement to reject it, but I'd ask you if you'd refuse it, at least for the first reading again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this statement. Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u24	Yuri Prokopchuk, "BUT - "Fatherhood", Equality. It is evident that the State that is referring to the service duties of military personnel and representatives of all power structures should take good care of them. And actually, these are the guarantees that all of them have: and military personnel, including those who are acting against the Ukrainian people today, I mean, all of these beasts, the Berkutites there and the things that are under the roof of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. But, not me, they carry out criminal orders for which their superiors will be responsible, but they also suffer for it. However, there is, if you intend to reject, you will consider who will protect you tomorrow. Because the Armed Forces today, including through such reforms and policies, are actually coming to an end. No weapons, no housing, no officers live like this, sorry, as they say, like beggars. And so, although we can guarantee families that they will be socially protected, well, just in case. And for all the boys who carry both military services and other services, I wish them long years of life and health. But the law has to be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u25	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u26	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, Ukrainian Opposition Ladies and gentlemen, I will remind you of the time when we voted in favour of this law. 396 votes were cast. The same law, nothing has changed. But then we fail the second reading of this law. And that's why those people who have to go under bullets, by the way, most of them as searchers get a salary of 1,400 dollars. Not everyone gets at least three and a half. I repeat, from 1,400 to 1,500 dollars these people get. But they must be confident that if they die or die as a result of injury, injury, or disability, even if they are legally loved, they will act on their conscience. As a result, I do not see any caution in adopting this law in the first and second readings. He was ready for his second reading. And I'm going to make an offer, support it immediately in two readings. But what I want to say is the financial component that the committee's head was now stressing. Don't worry about the budget, don't worry. The government that will come after the October elections will certainly find money to finance these expenses from January 1. This is why I urge you to comply with the constitutional requirement for equality of citizens. Make sure everyone's healthy. It's like, you know, the price of the bill, or maybe everyone will be alive and well, and then you won't have to spend anything. So I ask you to support this bill in the first and second readings. And I'm talking to the representatives of the Party of Regions, let's work together to help those who protect the country to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u27	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to make a comment to the speakers on the baseless and harsh slanders of the Party of Regions. A party of regions is one and a half million Ukrainian citizens. And you have no moral right to hang on to all the vocal, offensive, and lying accusations. Do you have specific claims against specific people? Please respond. You're a Ukrainian national deputy, you can ask questions or petitions. Take, Your Honor, an example of tolerance from the Party of Regions. Have you ever heard from us that "Fatherland" is a bunch of killers and cockroaches, homosexuals and pedophiles?Oh, my God! You've never heard of it or heard it, because we're tolerant of you. Keep your mouth shut. You'd shut up! When you speak, you are constantly losing an excellent opportunity to keep quiet! Keep your mouth shut and you'll look smarter than you really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u29	Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Here's what I'd like to say. Here, in the hall, some say such words that military formations also have plans for the loss of personnel. So, what I'd like to say is that in 30 years of my job, 25 of them in management positions, District inspectors, search and rescue officers, road patrol, post office, a lot of other services, including the same Berkut. Thus, there is no indication of the death of coworkers, in large numbers, that they differ from the tragedy of each family. That's why I think this bill needs to be supported. In addition, support the entire hall here, in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u31	Thank you. Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u32	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. As a person of European social-democratic values, I will vote in favour of this law. Because I understand that if the state's level of concern for military personnel gives the chance that military personnel will repay the same state. Every year, we vote that military contingents are going to do their duty in other states. We understand that there are military personnel in our state, and unfortunately, it's happening, well, it sounds terrible, but these plans to lose people. And at every cost are families, families of military personnel, who have laid down their lives in behalf of our nation. We do not take a situation where there may be, there, the Chernobylites, do not give God, some cataclysm, where military officials also carry out their duty to the State and to their people. So, of course, this law needs to be voted on and I will personally do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office in its conclusions is that the bill needs to be redrafted. It is up to the vote, please note, the proposal of the adoption committee on the basis of the draft Act amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Act on Pension Insurance for Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons" on the size of the pension in the event of a loss of a breadwinner. [[Registration number 9724]] Please vote. [[16:32:17]] For 128 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Fathership" – 58, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 31, communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 5, non-fractional – 7. I'm voting on a motion to re-read the bill. Please vote. [[16:32:52]] For 338 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act 10437 on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl Disaster on the free choice of a sanatorium. Proposal: To consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[16:33:28]] For 219 Decision taken. The rapporteur – first, I'm sorry, Deputy Prime Minister – is Minister of Social Policy Tihypco Sergey Leonidovich. The reporter is Anatoly Seminoga.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u34	Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, the government has drawn up and submitted to you a bill designed to improve the order of the State to provide legislative guarantees for the recovery of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Today, citizens who have suffered are receiving health-care trips in order to buy them at the expense of the state budget. The purchase of sanatorium routes is done according to the result of the tender. This leads to citizens being dissatisfied with sanatorium treatment in many cases. They are practically given a trip, and they often come from cities where there are nice facilities where they can get better, to a completely different part of the country. This leads to unnecessary spending, which leads to unnecessary corruption. The proposal that we have made is that these people will receive a voucher that will allow them to choose for themselves where they will be interested in healing. Today, the Ministry of Health has tested 354 such institutions. That means people will go out, they'll go into the Ministry of Social Policy website, they'll pick a place that they'll be interested in, they'll take their voucher, and they'll rest where they want to. The price of travel will be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the order in which this mechanism will operate will be determined by the Ministry of Social Policy. If we can do so, we will virtually avoid corruption during these tenders. I have a great request to consider and, if you please, accept it in the first and second and in general. This one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u35	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u36	This bill was done with public organizations, we discussed it in the plenary of the Chernobyl Union, and they took part in its development. They fully support this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u37	Thank you, Sergey Leonidovich. Please, from the committee, Anatoly Ivanovich Seminoga, head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u38	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster at its meeting reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens Affected by the Chernobyl Disaster, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the free choice of citizens affected by the Chernobyl sanatorium accident]] [[Registration number 10437]] The bill provides that citizens who have suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster will be provided with health-care routes through the provision of annual cash assistance to compensate for the cost of travel through a cash-free recalculation of sanatoriums that have a licence and economic activity from medical practices for the provision of health-care services or for their desire for monetary compensation in the amount of the average cost of travel of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that you and I have basically held public hearings every year about the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. And at virtually all public hearings, public organizations representing the Chernobyl community made proposals to address the problem of sanitation, sanitation, sanitation. And you remember that most of the complaints were that they were offered directions that did not satisfy them; they were sent to sanatoriums that did not meet the requirements for their treatment, recovery, rest. The committee is convinced that this system will allow the right of the black people to choose the treatment facility in which they wanted to be treated or compensated, to pay for their expenses, and to go to other treatment facilities. The committee supports the bill in its first reading and asks the Supreme Council to support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u39	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Chechetov. Get ready for Carpuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This law is absolutely apolitical, absolutely it does not add to the election. He adds ratings and respect to all of us people's deputies, regardless of who's in the political faction, who's in what political party, who's going under what slogans, because the bill really needs a voter. And the Party of the Regions is calling on our political friends, our opponents, to also, as you have supported our patriotic momentum in supporting Ukraine in football, to divide our flags, our scarfs, we hope that you have such support as sincere, support for the Party of the Regions in support of our assembly, we have no doubt. And don't hide, you've already identified yourself with our scarfs for history. We therefore ask for the patriotic support of this law, and then the victory will be for us, for the Ukrainian Parliament, and will be won by the Ukrainian people as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u41	Carpuk, please, Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u42	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". We will support this bill, which deals with a very painful issue for people who have suffered from an accident at CHAS, including children and children with disabilities associated with this accident. I'd like to hear, of course, whether there's a debt of compensation for sanatorium treatment. But so far, there's been practice that thousands of people who need this treatment, let's say they're headed to a region where there's no conditions where there's no practice and provision of a medical diagnostic process that's much lower than you can do even on the spot, within the area, let's say Kiev or Volinsky, where there's enough sanatorium. At the same time, indeed, the breach of tender procedures, and the purchase took place somewhere in Poltavsk or in another area, resulting in excessive payments by people on the road, on the move, on the escort of children and so on. That's why it's a pretty good idea, but I have doubts, Sergey Leonidovich, whether that's enough to compensate, because the queues and the need for sanatorium treatment are great. And will that limit be enough? Will that be enough for a person to get full treatment or within 10 to 14 days and then pay? Because many of these people will be able to pay, indeed, for full treatment. And the good idea is, we'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u43	Thank you. Gordine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u44	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Well, the best thing about this bill, if you look at it and read it carefully, is, of course, its name. Besides the name, there's nothing we can see here at large. The other one. Some speakers said that the law was apolitical. I would just like to deny it, because politics is a concentrated expression of economics. Third. I would like to say that this bill is a kind of version of Bill 9127, which restricts the ability of the Chernobyl population, not improves. I'd like to say that yes, within the range offered by the Cabinet of Ministers, there will be healthy black people, 10, 20, 100, I don't know how many, but an absolute majority of them will be without recovery. And today, if you look at today's legislation, let's not blame the soul: a person has the right to choose the hospital facility, or a sanatorium, where he can get better. But the trouble of executive power, and of today's, and of the past, first of all, that extremely little money is being invested in sanatorium and smoking, and the vast majority of those citizens who need it can't get it. Let's remember that we're the buyers' tenders, we're taking them to midsummer and so on, and the guides aren't getting bought, and that's what makes us less likely and less likely to get better. And I would like to say the next thing that, after examining this bill, after considering all the possibilities, we're frankly saying that it's not good and that the faction of the Ukrainian Company is not going to support it, because it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u45	Yes, please, Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u46	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, unlike the distinguished forerunner, I would like to say that there is a meaning here besides the name. We all know that legal guarantees have been put in place for the rehabilitation of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. I mean, there are guarantees, but I think that many of the deputies who work know that there are a lot of issues around the tenders about sanatorium treatment or rehabilitation, a lot of problems. And I think that a lot of the deputies have been approached by representatives of sanatoriums, houses of rest, so that some quota is in these institutions to be sent to people for treatment. The opaque system of these tenders, dishonest, corrupt, often dense, leads to bad consequences, everyone knows that. If a different order is offered, and this order will help a person choose a sanatorium, it's just a plus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u47	Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u48	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reforms for the Future, no matter what, there will be calls or misunderstandings for this bill. We understand that he's imperfect, that's a fact, and among the comments that the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration made, there are the right things. In particular, we read through the following lines, the main thing is, who defines the amount of funding? The second is, what do you do if you don't have enough money? Third, who's in charge? Fourth, who's buying these services for these people in medical institutions? Of course, all the categories expressed by this law need respect. And maybe for the first time in such a small, you know, we're talking about all of the population categories that were affected in the Chernobyl disaster. That's why we're going to be supporting him. And if there's any, you know, screwyness, then we're going to work on the second reading. Because such a law is worthy of motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u49	Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Here are the government officials, Mr. Tihypco tells us how they care about the Chernobyls. When will you return your pension? When you return money to the black people, the children of war, who have been in court for years, have lost their health in court. We've reached a court decision, and you're not doing it, these court decisions. Return to the Chernobylites, return to the Afghans, return to the children of the war of retirement. Do you get paid on time? You don’t pay taxes, and you don’t give people the blood benefits they earned by giving up their health. You don't have a conscience. I demand from the government, I demand that the authorities immediately execute the decisions of the courts and pay the Chernobyls and children of war their dues. Otherwise, retire and do not fool people into thinking that you care about them. They live on a penny, they don't have anything to eat for, unlike you. You're drowning in red and black eggs, and you're not giving away the last penny they made.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I think after such a brilliant speech, Easy should be appointed Minister of Finance. Yes, the discussion is over, Anatoly Ivanovich. It's a reduced procedure, everything's going to be fine. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. [[on free choice of sanatorium]] Please vote. [[16:48:17]] For 259. Copy that. Dear colleagues, since the holiday season has begun, there is a proposal for a decision to prepare for the second reading under the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[16:48:45.]] For 241 The committee's request, Anatoly Ivanovich, that you prepare for your second reading for the next plenary week, was considered about Tuesday. Dear colleagues, we are now considering with you a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the issue of the internal government loan bonds to Pat "Ukrhydroenergo"]] [[Registration number 10612]] These two laws are binding. 10611 is a draft Act amending article 23 of the Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on the securities of PAT "Ukrhidroenergo"]] There is a proposal to unify these two laws, that is, to listen to one report and two reports, because different committees, and then to discuss them together, because once again, I repeat, these are related laws, there are two sentences or half sentences to make changes to the law. Is there no objection? Then I propose to discuss these laws with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u52	There's no budget, and there's no budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u53	There's a budget there, Yuri Anatolyovich, it's clear with the budget. There you will hear, and you will now vote. [[16:50:05]] For 208 Supported. The Czech Republic reports Sergey Mikhailovich. Please, Sergey Mikhailovich, by both laws per minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft laws amending the Ukrainian State Budget 2012 Act and amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders' Associations, developed by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. [[on the issue of internal loan bonds]] The project is designed to reconcile article 23, it's technical, about stock companies, it adds to an active editorial that defines the particular order of redemption of shares in Naftogazu and Ukrhydroenergo by the shareholder company. The purpose of the adoption of the bill is to carry out the tasks of the President of Ukraine with regard to the completion of the first line of the Dniestrów Hydroaccumulation Station in 2012. The issuance of domestic government loan bonds with further acquisitions into state property in exchange for these bonds of the additional issue of the public limited stock company Ukrhidroenergo will allow funding for the first line of construction of the Dniestrów Hydroaccumulation Station. The drafts are in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, Mine Economic Development, Minnesota, and approved at a government meeting. The implementation of the bill will enable the state to provide energy security, the financial stability of the national economy and the competitiveness of domestic producers in line with the energy strategy. Taking into account the importance of resolving the issue? Please support the Pakistani projects for amending the Léstate Budget and amending the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u55	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Sit down, please. Please, by law 10612 Baranov Valerius Alexiyovich, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u56	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Budget Affairs today considered this bill on the issue of domestic government bonds and the bill was drafted by the government to provide first-line funding for the construction of the first line of the Dniestrów hydroelectric power station. The bill provides for the granting of the government the right to issue 1 billion sums of UDPs and further purchases of state property in exchange for these bonds, additional shares of Ukrhydroenergo and an increase in this amount of government debt. According to the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Ministry of Finance supports the adoption of this bill. On the basis of the review, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u57	Thank you. According to Bill 10611, the Vice-President of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, the bill is very simple and very short, it consists of only four words. If you remember, about six months ago, we passed a bill that allows the Government to entitle the statutory capital of a particular state enterprise, called "Neftegas Ukraine", to fill, not with living money, but with domestic government debt bonds. Thus, the same right of the Government requests for another State enterprise, called the “Ukrhydroenergo”. The Committee on Economic Policy proposes that the Supreme Council support the bill not only on the basis but also in general. Because there's only four lines, there's nothing to rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u59	Thank you. Please sign up if you want to. Gordien Sergey. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u60	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. The faction of the Company of Ukraine will support both bills in the first reading. But I would like to draw attention to another. Today we are building these objects, including hydropower, and the cascade of such private hydropower plants, we can say, built in the Poltava region in the Psel River Basin. Today, this has led to negative environmental phenomena: water congestion, river congestion, and so forth, particularly in the Great Britain region of the village of Balaklia and others. People try to save the environment where they live, turning to the highest officials. But Kiev is coming from high cabinets of screams that can't be provided with a normal water leak, because it's going to damage and damage the structures that built these hydropower complexes. So once again, I would like to stress that we will support these two specific bills. But I would also ask the Ministry to pay particular attention, including the protection of the environment and the watershed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u61	Yes, the Hebrew Paul, please. Sebravsky Paul Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, it would seem a good thing to build something. But really, let's see what they're offering us. Bond issue. Who Will Buy The Bonds? What about commercial banks? No, it's not. This will be sold to the National Bank. The second issue is an increase in Ukraine's budget deficit. And in fact, amendments would have to be made to this very article of the state budget. The question is, what is it that you really want to build today, because it's one pocket. Because they built one bracelet, and the other one in the pocket, I understand. It's already purchased two 250 million dollars worth of Minpalevenergo for $400 million, and $300 million was put in the pocket. The second question. I'm sure today is the day. They used to say, "what's good for the German is death for the Ukrainian authorities today." Because, in fact, what they're doing today is actually just stealing the government budget. I think today this law, as a minimum, in the second reading and as a law cannot be adopted. I will have amendments to this bill, which is why I immediately, Adam Ivanovich, say that in the second reading I ask you not to put in, because there are amendments to this draft law. And I would say that since there is no substantial justification for these things, it cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u63	Please, Ganushkak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we have another example, a visual example of Kabmin's very bad work. I mean, I understand this: we planned three years in advance, the medium-term planning in our budget code is fixed, these investments are fixed, and it's going as it should be, on the course, and so on. No, in the middle of the year, they suddenly decided that there was no money. Instead of increasing government debt and budget deficits, it's absolutely correct to say that if we don't have reinforced income, then there's a budget deficit. There's a bill that doesn't seem to have a deficit because there's a stock issue coming out. But it's the same thing, an issue of shares that's being produced by the state, which is actually we're buying this money and increasing government debt, which is that there's no such thing as miracles. In this respect, the bill is messy. Then there's the question of who still owns these shares after they're released. So we see that it's possible, in advance, to blur the property of the state, because the shares are still going to buy private structures. Next. Why is the instrument for financing this debt, or bond, clearly indicated? Because he's the most expensive? Well, of course, if there is a possibility of making money from one of the third parties, it is the tool that is most expensive that is being offered. So even if there are noble goals, because you have to build them up. Even on the condition that everything that could be exploited within the general budget fund has already been given to the President, who has owed us $30 billion. Under this condition, this law cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, if any of you were on this paradise side of the earth, on the Bukovin, which rests with Moldova and sees what is done there, you would agree that a hydroaccumulation station should be built. Unfortunately, it has been built for more than 20 years. That's very bad, that's over 20 years, because in Soviet times, it started to build and almost finished part of the first line. And so far we can't complete it. And I think it's absolutely right, absolutely right that the government found, in my opinion, a fairly reasonable alternative to finding the funds to build this hydroaccumulative station first this year. I think, dear colleagues, don't look for a black cat in a dark room because it's not here. This is really a people-to-people issue. So I would ask, let's be here without politics, let's be without politics. I propose to pass a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the issue of the internal government loan bonds to Pat "Ukrhydroenergo"]] [[Registration number 10612]] Please vote. [[17:01:57]] For 255 Decision taken. I propose to adopt the Act amending article 23 of the Act on Shareholder Associations. [[on the securities of PAT "Ukrhidroenergo"]] [[Registration number 10611]] Let me vote and show you the factions, because that's about the same thing. Vote. [[17:02:27]] For 255 Both laws have been passed. 255. The factions, please. The 180th Region Party, BUT, did not vote, "our Ukraine" - 1, communists - 25, People's Party - 20, Reforms for the Future - 19, non-fractional - 10. Thank you. Laws are passed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u66	You didn't vote for anything. I said the law. You listen to what I'm saying. You may deny it. We are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the use of motor fuels with biocomponent content. [[Registration numbers 10572, 10572-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:03:27]] For 219 Decision supported. Please, Bill number 10572 reports by Paul Anatolyovich Klimec. You don't? Please, then, Bill 10572-1 will report to the Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Czech Sergei Mihajlovich. [[government]] Prepare Plednik from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft amendment to some of Ukraine's laws on the use of motor fuels with biocomponents, designed to increase Ukraine's energy independence and stimulate the development of alternative fuels. The need for adoption of the bill is in line with the basic principles of State policy and is based on these factors. The need to diversify energy sources in order to reduce import dependence, to significantly pollute the environment with harmful emissions of motor vehicles, and to encourage the national producer to produce alternative fuels. The project amends article 2 of the U.S. Law on Alternative Fuels, which determines the gradual increase in the regulatory part of production and the use of biofuels and mixed motor fuels. The content of bioethanol in motor gasoline produced and/or implemented in Ukraine will be at least 5 percent in 2013. In 2014-2015, mandatory content is no less than a percentage of the volume. Since 2016, mandatory content is not less than 7 percent vol. The draft law is designed to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations in the context of membership of the Energy Co-authorate, such as Directive 2003 of the European Union. This directive provides for a mandatory share of renewable fuel for transport of at least 5.75 per cent by the end of 2010, and according to the Directive, at least 10 per cent by 2020. For Ukraine, it is the optimal model for adding petrol to the engine of bioethanol, alcohol of ethyl denatured alcohol.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u69	Thank you. In view of the large number of unladen companies in the alcohol industry. Ukraine’s Ministry of Agriculture and Food has developed a programme to transfer the eased power of alcohol companies to the production of bioethanol alcohol of ethyl denatured alcohol. The introduction of the program will increase the capacity of the state-owned firm Ukrispirt by 40 percent, load 38 alcohol factories that are now easy and secure 30,000 jobs. Well. So, by improving the socio-economic situation in the areas where alcohol companies are found. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u70	Thank you. The fences.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u71	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 19 June 2012 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Use of Motor Fuels with Biocomponents, respectively registration number 10572, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Klimc. But to amend some Ukrainian laws on the production and use of motor fuels with the content of biocomponents provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10572-1]] The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with the above-mentioned drafts of June 18, 2012, making a number of observations both before the first and the second drafts. At the same time, after considering both the first and second drafts, the Economic Policy Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 10572-1, on the basis of which it had entrusted the committee with the task of redrafting the draft bill for the second reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made by subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, by shortening the deadlines for submission and consideration of such observations and proposals by half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u72	Yes, I'd like you to sign up for this, if there are. Jaroslav Suhi. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I have once had to say from this rostrum that according to the productive potential of bioethanol and biofuel Ukraine, it can be bold to call itself the new Kuwait. That's for sure. The corn that's been in the fields for about a year, the grass of all kinds, it can all be fuel. But. and, of course, it is necessary to vote in favour of this law or even if the process that is currently at the point of freezing should begin. There are two moments. But the first moment I still haven't figured out in whose hands is the government sector of Ukrainian Spirit Plants? Who gives the license? Who gives permission? Who's in charge? How much is it now? How will this happiness continue to be reflected in the congregation’s excise budget? I have a bad experience on my skin, what it is and how it looks bad. First. And a second observation. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I ask you to take into account the experience of Brazil and Argentina, for example, in those countries where such fuels have been introduced long ago, there are some technical changes to the engines. Engines have to be processed, we've got to make them. Therefore, even if we now accept it in the first reading, both in the second reading and in the subsequent reading, it is extremely important that we work with a motorized office. You can't just give the engine back to the experiments -- it's not that simple. So I call on the Ukrainian people's deputies to vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u74	Please, Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u75	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the MP's Reforms for the Future, in principle, sees this bill as worth paying attention to, and we should have such a law. Yes, indeed, we need to develop with and not stop this step forward on the development of production and the increase in the fraction of bioethanol in the fuel used as much as possible. Indeed, today the speakers referred to the experience of both Brazil and China, and Argentina, yes, indeed, it is. But there are some observations, and the main ones are the following. Let me remind you that on June 7, 2012, we passed Bill 7524 -- the draft Biofuels Development Act. And in article 8, "State regulations on the production and consumption of biofuels," there was also a clear provision for dealing with the production of mixed motor fuels. I'll even tell you, "The country, by implementing the economic and organizational measures defined in this article, contributes to the production of mixed petrol and motor fuels with bioethanol content in such proportions." And it went on 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015. I have a question for all of us. If this law is on the signature and the President, what do we now accept? Because we're changing the percentages of these mixtures in these fuels according to this law that we're considering today. For example, in 2015, there should be 20 percent of the law adopted, and we have 7 percent. So what are we going to do? That's the first question. And the second question. So what do we do today is that some companies like Mitsubishi forbid the use and disposal of a guarantee to use their car if there's bioethanol fuel in there? What do you want to do about it? Today, Comrade Suhiy has said a little about this, but we do not understand how and in what position we will put the Ukrainians. Therefore, we should support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u76	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u77	That's why we should support the Bill with Part 1, or government, but wait for the second reading until we deal with the bill on the President's signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u78	Yes. The factions don't insist? Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I think I'm talking to my colleague, you're saying it right, but if we tie one law to another, to the third, to the tenth, wait for them to sign or not to sign, then we can, well, wait long enough to wait and fail. So let's vote for these bills and take down the problem. Because everyone understands that it is relevant, that it needs to be maintained at a state level, including legislation, and more importantly, that this is required by all the standards of those international organizations with which we already have direct contacts and have entered into a contractual relationship. Bill 10572 is passed. I'd like to make up my mind. The author is Klimec. [[17:14:25]] For -8 Not supported. I propose the adoption of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the use of motor fuels with biocomponents. Please vote. [[17:14:54]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. The law is passed. Yes, dear fellows, let's work in a day's work, because today. Where are we? 9554 is a bill amending article 38-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine (for the use of the right of payment), the Yegorenko National Deputy Project, 9554. There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[17:15:42]] For 212 Supported. Please, Yegorenko Tamara Vasilevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u79	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, the bill proposes to give disabled persons, children with disabilities and persons who accompany the disabled of the first group or children with disabilities a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of travelling on internal lines, air, rail, river and road transport throughout the calendar year. Today, it is stipulated by the law that the specified benefit is effective from October 1st to May 15th. The adoption of appropriate legislative change is a matter of social justice, which is called upon to guarantee the disabled equality with all other citizens, opportunities to participate in social life and create the necessary conditions to enable the disabled to live a full life. It should be noted that for another category of citizens entitled to appropriate benefits, similar restrictions on the duration of the extended passage were lifted. Therefore, the adoption of the draft law will help to improve the level of social protection of the first group's disabled, especially children with disabilities, and will eliminate their discrimination. Please support the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u80	Thank you, Tamara Vasilevna. Have a seat. Committee head Suškević, turn on the microphone, please, Valeriy Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u81	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 38/1 on the use of the right of extended passage. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that I am sure that the disabled of Ukraine, listening to us now, have given us a bad breath, because everyone knows how much today is the problem with travelling tariffs for rail transport, namely, inland air and river transport, road transport, so that the disabled person can pay for this journey. Imagine that since May 15, people with disabilities have not been able to help, and that is, from May 15 on, a sanatorium treatment for many disabled people who go to a sanatorium, rehabilitation centers, and all the facilities where they can receive current treatment. And given that the state today does not finance sanitation by about 10 to 15 percent of its needs, it practically finances the disabled itself for its treatment and rehabilitation and recovery. Under these conditions, 50 percent of the cost of rail, air, and other transportation is extremely important for the disabled. I'm going to everyone, first of all, the governing coalition, the governing faction, to solve the issue and support the disabled in Ukraine as to what they're going to do with providing them with a tax passage on inland transport lines. I hope that the points involved in financing this benefit will be resolved and that we will support these people because the state is indebted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u82	Yes, please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. I'm getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u83	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Of course, the proposal should be supported to ensure that disabled persons, children with disabilities and persons accompanying the first group or children with disabilities have a 50 per cent reduction in the cost of travelling on the internal air, rail, river and road transport lines for a year. But, dear colleagues, it turns out that we're adopting normal laws like this, but they're not being implemented, including today's power. We take the first part of article 38-1: disabled people, disabled children and persons who accompany disabled people and groups or children with disabilities have the right to free travel, well, let's talk, all kinds of suburban transport. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I often receive people with disabilities or who accompany people with disabilities. In Chernigiv County, we're looking at the suburban bus routes of Chernigov-Rivnopil, Chernigov-Petrusin, Chernigov-Ivanovka, Chernigov-Ivanovka, Chernigov, from Chernigov, from the highway, free of charge, and the driver who comes back is pushing out the invalid: "Pay." I'm going to the district government for the first time, and I'm going to say, "The carriers are having a preventive conversation." The voters come, the question is not solved. The second time I'm going to the district government, the question is not being solved. For the third time, I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. They're being sent to the district government -- the issue is not being solved. They refer to the reason for the subsidy to be granted in order to benefit, from the State Budget to the district and to the city. So, if they're traveling around the area, that's how urban residents don't have a disability, and if they're in the city, that's what they have. And that fits me with the first deputy head of the district administration of Prokopenko, who has to settle this problem. So the Company faction will support Bill 9554. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u84	Andrew Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u85	Please pass on the word to Vladimir Viezowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u86	Please, the microphone of Vyziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u87	Vladimir Vyezivsky, Czervonograd, Sokalščina With regard to this bill, it is clear that, first of all, by adopting certain laws here in Parliament and by raping the Constitutional Court one more time, we understand that any amendments to the expansion of social guarantees are absolutely against the simple thing: what do we have in the budget? That's what the Constitutional Court said: if there's money in the budget, there's going to be aid, there's not going to be any money, no matter what you say, there's not going to be any benefits. And that's why, to the extreme extent, to take this position, which is now being offered and supported by a committee of profile, I'd like to say another simple thing about the allocation of funds in places for this benefit. Some citizens can benefit if it is a large city and has a certain grant, and they have the opportunity to allocate additional domestic funds. The residents of villages, whatever benefits they may have with regard to carriers, do not generally have the right to do so because the costs of transporters do not reach the villages. Moreover, even if some of the funds do come to those carriers, the carriers stop driving people to the villages simply because there is no road to those villages. And how many times have we asked this question, so that, apart from Euro, where it's very easy to wash billions of dollars, to put money in places where local authorities can build and repair roads, these funds don't go to places. So people, even with the benefits, and even if the government's minimum costs go up there, they don't have the ability to actually use this tax rate in places. That's why I'm calling the chairman again. We've just made up our minds, we've gone into debt one more time, probably already to our children or grandchildren, and we've turned the money over so that the Party of Regions can pick them up one more time, because super-big projects with huge billions of investments called. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u88	Chechtev Mikhailo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u89	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Elections took place in Greece. In the elections, the whole of Greek politics was divided into two parts. On the one hand, they're the ones who told people the truth. Let her be tough, but true. Those who saw the future in the European Union, those who did not want Greece to leave the eurozone, those who saw the prospect and tomorrow of Greece. On the other hand, there were populists who thought to spread oil on the bread and thus enter parliament. And this is what the people of Greece have chosen to vote for: Boltun populists or pragmatists. And the Greek people supported the pragmatists, he voted in favour of the European perspective for Greece to remain in the eurozone, he voted in favour of tomorrow. Therefore, I would like to say that this law should be adopted and it should indeed be considered in the context of the implementation of the President's social initiatives. And there is absolutely a problem that needs to be solved, and we need to see these people who need to be helped first and we will help, but we will help, in real terms, given the real possibilities of the budget, so that it doesn't work out that the law has been passed, and then people come to Parliament, and in November there may be another parliament, another mandate, and people will come and say, you've passed the law, why there isn't a vote. Therefore, the law will have to be voted on and we will necessarily vote on it when we measure the price of the law against the reality of the budget. And we will vote in favour of this law because it is in the context of the President's social initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, I ask you not to line up, to record when the recording is coming, not just under the current and we'll talk. Asshole, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u91	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Gennady Zadirko, MP of Reforms for the Future, Mikolayevščina. Our parliamentary group will support this bill and we understand that the state must, of course, shoulder the people who need it. But I'd like to say a little bit about another, honourable colleagues, if we vote so fast for privatization laws, we put the seaports to privatization, the Kharkiv factory tries to do it, but we have to understand that as soon as the privatisation and the enterprise ceases to be state-owned, taxes are going down three times, so there's nothing to fill the budget. We need to understand that we need to end up in our country with liberal economic reform, we need to understand that we need social steps, and if we're going to be saving on children, people with disabilities and those.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u92	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending article 38-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[on the use of the right to payment]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u93	Let's vote and see. Please vote. Have you seen Yuri Anatolyovich? So what do you want. [[17:28:22]] For 124 Not supported. The factions. Please. The Party of Regions – 6, BUT – 49, Our Ukraine – 20, Communists – 25, The People's Party did not vote, Reforms for the Future – 17, non-fractional – 7. There is a proposal to send the author a draft for further work. Please vote. [[17:29:03]] For 284 Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the specificity of education]] [[Registration number 10233]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[17:29:34]] For 218. Supported. As the author and committee, Korz Pavlov Petrovich. Please, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u94	Respected Adam Ivanovic, respected colleagues, the Thurmanov Bill has been introduced because the rule of social guarantees laid down in the Law on the Promotion of the Prosperity of Mining Work of Ukraine for persons who are children of mining workers on the basis of birth does not take into account the specificity of national legislation that defines children as under 18 years of age. This law corrects the situation where children with benefits under Ukrainian law have reached the age of majority since the end of their 11-year general education course and therefore lose the opportunity to benefit from the right of extra-competition access to higher and vocational education. Moreover, it is very often important not only for months but also for several days, depending on the date of birth of the child. On instructions from the Fuel and Energy Complex Committee, which was held on 10 April, I report that Bill 10233. has considered the bill and proposes that it be adopted on first reading and in general. The Chief Research and Expert Office has given us a positive response to the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u95	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Vyziewski, please. Behind him is the Chaplain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u96	Vladimir Viezivsky, Shakhtarsky, Czervonograd On this subject, I have to read the article itself so that voters understand what is going on. This is about the 5th article "The Personality of Acquisition of Education." "The miners who have worked underground for no less than three years, the persons whose parents are miners and who are under 15 years of age or who have died as a result of an accident in production, or who have become disabled I or P groups, are listed in the first year after obtaining general secondary education outside the competition for personal choice of speciality to state and municipal higher and vocational technical education institutions of Ukraine for learning at the expense of the state and local budgets with the provision of accommodations at the time of study and guaranteed pay, at the expense of the state budget, scholarships at the size of living minimum established by law for working persons." This is the kind of editorial that is now being proposed to be accepted in this reading. Indeed, it will relieve a lot of stress, especially in those mining families where their father is no longer a miner and a child is taught in the private sector, at the expense of his parents. Therefore, this standard would allow children to enter a state or community institution after graduation in the same year. And at the expense of government spending, it's also at the expense of the state to get a scholarship that's as big as living. This would give these mining families the greatest support of the state. Because those people who work in mines, mostly in state-owned enterprises, where the conditions of work are not fully resolved today, do not adhere to safety techniques, because there are no public funds available for this, including fatalities. That is why, first of all, such children would have to learn, and they would have certain preferences from the State when they went into state education. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u97	Vladimir Caplienko. Prepare Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u98	Please pass the word to Vitalia Semenovich Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u99	Please, Kuril.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group "For the Future Reforms" will support this bill. It's small and it's about, first of all, those kids who, after they graduated from school at the age of 18, didn't fall under that category. This happens when, for example, a child goes to school not from 6 years old, but from 7 years old, 11 years of age has studied, graduated from school at 18 years of age, and no longer falls under that category, even though she would be entitled to it. So this is a small number of kids who are going to get this extra benefit. Even though it is a matter of social benefits, especially the benefits of entering higher educational institutions, it is highly irritating. And in general, we're all here to eliminate any benefits when we enter higher institutions or review them. But if this is the case, it is necessary to bring all of this into one piece of legislation. And there can be no discrimination against one child or another. So in this case, I asked everyone to support this bill because it eliminates these inadequacies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u101	Landik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u102	Thank you. I said no, but to vote, we'll all be in favour. Why are you saying no? I am against this approach when we adopted the Mining Labour Authority Act. Remember how in this room, with what pump, with a hand-kissing, with Ukrainian heroes, medals, medals. Why did we accept that we were making changes throughout the period that followed? All the time, they forgot everything, they wrote: education for free. We're bringing it in now, it turns out, not all of it. It has been written that coal is free of charge to dead miners, and widows of the dead are forgotten. In addition to forgetting that coal has been removed, taxes have also been forgotten. Therefore, we must immediately be able to remove the income tax and social coal VAT during this session. And I think we'll do it on Thursday and free our citizens from the tax on free, so to speak, coal. And for the law itself, of course, we will vote, and there is nothing to discuss. But once again, if we approach the law on the part of politicians and piranhas, it turns out that over the next few years we will change it all the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a committee to adopt is based on the draft Act amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Mining Act. [[on the specificity of education]] [[Registration number 10233]] [[17:37:49]] For 315 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, one minute, I heard. I heard the broadcast was going off, I heard your speech. Dear colleagues! Does anyone object to the committee's proposal? To put adoption on the vote as a whole? Is there a denial? Dear colleagues, please let's take care of this. Because in such an approach, you have to count off the external independent evaluation. And then make decisions about different categories. We need to make one decision. There's a denial. I'm voting on the proposal to have the committee handle the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please. [[17:38:55]] For 293 Decision taken. In summary, we have decided, with the commission of the committee, to prepare for the second reading of the reduced procedure. Dear National Deputies! We were about to consider a draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the decision to ban entry into Ukraine. At the same time, the author of the bill, Vladimir Olijnik, appealed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill. Therefore, we must vote in favour of this proposal. I am voting for a motion to withdraw from the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the decision to ban entry into Ukraine. [[Registration number 10205]] Please vote. [[17:40:06]] For 263 Decision taken. Mikhailo Chechtov, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u104	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The following two laws, 10381 and 9592, are laws that address one serious problem related to both the European perspective and the visa-free regime. And the bill on this issue should be adopted by the House before Parliament goes on summer holidays. But since there are still certain nuances to be agreed upon in order not to burn the bill, there is a proposal to postpone the consideration of these bills to the next plenary week in order for us to finally adopt the bill in the Chamber by a majority vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, this is a very serious matter. You know that you and I have repeatedly tried to consider draft laws on documents that identify a person in the light of the modern requirements that exist in the European Union. We've already failed several drafts on this subject, roughly speaking. Now there are two bills again, there are no votes for them. Therefore, it would be logical to postpone consideration of these bills, or they would be burned. Wait a minute! Caplienko as the author of the bill. () [[B in m in s a l in]] The author of one of the bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues, you know, until today we've been preparing for the vote for a week and a half. The MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction is set up today to adopt both bills, and 10381, and 9592 in the first reading. Then why put it off? Our European prospects will be lost if we delay the week. We do not want to pass on this bill. () [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's look at it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, I strongly support your pleas. But let's face it, if the biggest faction doesn't vote, the decision won't be made. Do we want to burn this bill? Let's burn. So I'm putting a motion to the vote, I'm asking you to postpone consideration of draft laws, registration number 10381, 9592. Please vote. [[17:42:53]] For 243 Decision taken. Kirilo Kulikov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u108	We are losing sight of the prospects for Ukraine's European integration. We have a protocol to be implemented by the State of Ukraine by July of this year. If this is not done, we will lose such a truly Ukrainian dream. You know, someone has a dream, and we have a dream of being European. And on the other hand, this bill gives us the right to remove all corruption schemes in the issue of passports. Well, how can we vote like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u109	Well, me. Dear colleagues, I tell you again. In this situation, we have made the most of what we can do. Otherwise, there would be no vote for this decision. This is the first time. Secondly, I think we've lost the dream of a European partnership today. And secondly, the dream is on TV, and one second is 500 bucks. Yeah, the commercial's full. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep working. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct is being announced for consideration. [[on the preservation of the debtor's right to a single residence and the land in which it is located]] [[Registration number 9124]] The proposal to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Voting, please. [[17:44:55]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter is Vladimir Matthew. The reporter is Yuri Carmazin. Please, Vladimir Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u110	The draft law amending the Act on the Enforcement of Conduct in respect of the right of the debtor to the only housing and land on which it is situated aims to establish a legal basis for the protection of the right to own housing and to prohibit the forced eviction of the owners of the dwelling and their families if that is their only residence. With a view to protecting these rights, protecting the owners of housing and preventing the increase in the number of families without housing, it is proposed to amend articles 52 and 63 of the Act on the Enforcement of Conduct. These changes are intended to prohibit the recovery of the debtor's only residence and the land on which it is located. The list of types of property of citizens in the form of an annex to this Act, which cannot be recovered from the executive documents, shall be supplemented by the heating equipment of the premises if it is used simultaneously to prepare food. The adoption of proposed amendments, apart from the protection of the rights of the owner and the prohibition of forced evictions from the sole residence, allows for the regulation of the legal relationship in the execution of court decisions and the elimination of conflicts of law. Comments to the bill, which have been made by the Scientific and Expert Office and the Ministry of Finance, may be deleted by the second round. There is no budgetary cost for the implementation of the bill. And the second is the moral side of the matter. Thus, Christians, especially the Orthodox, were considered to be a sin to carry the last animal out of the courtyard or to take away the family of the house. Burners have always helped the world. If we do not accept this law, we will act against, including, Christian morality, human morality. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u111	Thank you, Vladimir Josephovich. Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u112	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 21 March 2012 the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct, submitted by the People's MP Matthew. The purpose of the bill is to create legal conditions for the protection of property rights for housing, to prohibit forced evictions of homeowners and members of their families in the event of their only residence. In order to protect owners and their property rights, as well as to prevent an increase in the number of persons without housing, the bill proposes to amend articles 52, 63 of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, which prohibit the use of the debt to the sole residence of the debtor and the land on which it is located. In addition, a list of types of citizen’s property, which cannot be applied for implementing documents, a supplement to the law, is supplemented by equipment for heating the room, if it is also used to prepare food for the room. The implementation of this project will protect the owners and their families if it is the only residence, from forced evictions, to prevent an increase in the number of people without housing and to regulate the legal relationship in the use of court decisions and remove the conflict of laws. At the same time, the Ministry of Finance noted that the proposed changes were not in line with article 56 of the law, according to which the list of types of citizens’ property that cannot be sought for implementing documents is set out in the appendix to this law. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority generally supports this legislative initiative, but they believe that the restriction should be complemented by a mechanism that should allow a person whose property is sought to be acquired to have a much larger housing size than the standard of living determined in accordance with Article 48 of the Housing Code, to move him to a smaller residence, by making the housing of a larger apartment more adequate. So, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u113	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u114	The first reading recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. After considering the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending the Act on Executive Conduct to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. That is why I would ask you to accept this bill. I also consider, as did a colleague who reported, Matthew, that he could be processed in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, please sign up for the performance. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Sergey Sobolev will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u116	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll be very brief. The MPs will support this bill, we think it's right. We had already seen how many people were left homeless on the street. The only thing I want to say is that these observations are negative, which are referred to here by our colleagues from the expert board, that this is supposed to lead to a reduction in the bank's credit portfolio, as if there's no minimum area or whatever. It's all talk. I want to tell you that, for example, in Odessa today, nothing stops the executive service and the court decisions, even the children are being evicted from. We have to put an end to this. Ukraine is proved as beggars to pen. We need to take care of the health of our citizens. We won't. We will vote in favour of this bill because we think it is absolutely right and necessary for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u117	Sergey Sobolev, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u118	Dear colleagues, I'd like to thank Deputy Matthew. I think he's done a unique job and what should be the norm of the law and unfortunately he's not working today in civil relations or in the Enforcement Law. We're finally, I hope, we're still going to legitimize this and we're not going to let things happen that today are property-occupied and land-dwelling, doing everything we can to evict even young children who are allegedly banned today by existing legislation, and here they find loopholes and do everything they can to ensure that young children, even those who are under the care of or who are registered in a given living room, are evicted by the decision of the executive services. By the way, statistics should be given to how the executive service works when there is still a restriction on evicting children if they are registered in a given residential area and this is still happening. That is why our faction “Brother’s Father’s Mother’s Block” believes that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, and even in general, because it must be regulated immediately. It's not just a warning to those who try to manipulate citizens' housing using their difficult material situation, and that's a warning for the future when, in fact, such schemes are used to evict and older citizens from their housing. The warning made by scientific expertise, moving to a smaller residential area. Whom will you move if it is, for example, a family of many children, a family with children? Or if it's an elderly person? Are you going to throw it somewhere else at the age of age? So I think that this warning is groundless, and the bill can even be taken into account in that version, as was submitted by Deputy Matthew. That's why our faction will support this idea. We'll vote for it. Moreover, it is principled for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u119	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u120	The changes that are being made actually make it impossible to manipulate any housing manipulation for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u121	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u122	Yuri Carmazin. I have already expressed my position by speaking out of the rostrum. And now I want to give the word to my colleague Arjevetin, he has some warnings, better make this law. Please pass the word to your colleague Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u123	Please, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u124	The honourable national deputies, indeed, seem at first to think that the initiative is very right. I listened to those who argued in favor of this proposal. But I would like to make a warning on the example of specific implementation or specific implementation of this standard in life. They were talking about evictions today. They were talking about evictions. But there are standards that work at a certain stage. For example. If forced eviction is carried out by a State, legislation is a prescribed norm when it is done with the consent of the evicted person, he is improved by conditions, he is given alternative options. Now if we implement this rule, we will automatically cancel the mechanism that works. I don't think we can accept this by introducing a populist one in an article. Let's think about the Ukrainians who, for example, wanted to do this today, have the right to get a loan and mortgage their property, or land, and they're convinced that they're able to pay off that loan. If such a rule appeared in the law, Caplienko today said that nothing would diminish, believe me, no Ukrainian would receive credit in such an order, nor would he benefit from his legal right, his own property to dispose of his own judgment as he deems necessary. Let's take another group of Ukrainians. If, for example, there is housing and according to the 48 - year - old Codex, it has much more than is foreseen, the minimum size of housing, such as 500 square meters. He has no right to order and sell, or if he has given consent because of the compulsion. Why do we deprive such Ukrainians of the right to exercise this right? I'm asking a different question. Please tell us how to deal with those agreements that are already concluded and are in force for two years, five, perhaps ten years now, especially mortgage agreements as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u125	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u126	How can we deal with these legal relationships? That's not what the law says. Today, too, there was a rule that the Ministry of Finance would make substantial remarks, so in my opinion we would create a whole series and a coalition to implement the rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u127	Thank you. Fedun, please. Now Beales, then Chechtev, one minute at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u128	Dear colleagues! So you listen and you think after all, when are you gonna think about people? I want to say one thing to the predecessor, according to the Institute of Strategic Research in the last two years, the tenth and eleventh years, that 410 billion dollars of bank capital have been withdrawn from the country. What kind of loans are you talking about? You're just protecting a bank lobby and no more. Therefore, the proposal of the people’s deputy, Matthew, is absolutely sound and must be voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u129	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u130	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, one of the most disturbing social problems has been raised and it will have to be addressed, and we will solve it. Indeed, we must protect the right to housing of poor citizens who are unable to repay loans so that they are not evicted from the streets, that is clear. But we must protect not the populists, but the legal ones. Unfortunately, there is nothing free in life. And in this situation, if this family is unable to pay, the question arises, and who should put it out? That is to say, it is necessary to decide whether to place the payment on the local budget or to place the payment on the public budget, but still have to be extinguished. We need to get the family out of the umbrella and transfer that debt to someone else, to the State or to local authority. This will be a legally correct decision. And I think it's in that context that the law will be passed, and we will protect these poor people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-06-19-m1.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. I'm voting on a proposal for adoption based on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the preservation of the debtor's right to a single residence and land in which it is located]] [[Registration number 9124]] Please vote. [[17:59:50]] For-126 The decision is not taken. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, don't scream, please. The Party of Regions – 1, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 64, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 15, communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 3. The proposal to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further work is put to the vote. [[18:00:27]] For 306 The law. Decision taken, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its plenary work at 10 a.m. Dear fellow believers, we wish our congregation to act with dignity today and win. Thank you.
