ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:39]] They registered in the 359 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of the national deputies Igor Alekseyev, Yuri Voropeyeva, Irina Gorinova. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them health on these New Year’s, Christmas days. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from December 20 to 23. Six plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine took place. 123 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 57 laws and 41 regulations were passed, 13 bills and one draft decree were adopted on the basis of the two bills being converted to the drafting of the legislative initiative; 5 bills were converted to the committee for further elaboration with the second reading, 17 bills and 6 draft regulations were rejected; one law was adopted in a new edition after the amendment; one law was rejected; 133 parliamentary requests were rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to inform you. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Zabzaluk Roman Omelanovic into the membership of the parliamentary group "Reform for the Future" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, I also announce that on the third floor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, an exhibition of a police towel has been opened. At 12 o'clock, this show will open. I would ask everyone who is interested in folk culture, especially the police towel, to visit this exhibition. Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please record the performance. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected Ukrainians! The MP Group on Reforms for the Future considers it necessary to draw attention to the reforms that Ukraine urgently needs. Summaries of 2011. The wave of instability captured much of the Arab world, marking the revolutionary upheavals in Egypt, Tunisia, Yemen, Algeria, Syria, and the downfall of the regime of Muammar Gaddafi in Libya. Instability is also evident in the Western world. For example, the recent threat of defolts in the United States, protests against the strengthening of corporations under the slogan, captured Wall Street or a financial crisis that has gripped the European Society, which has virtually silenced closed protest sentiments in Greece and Italy because of the massive collapse of social state standards. Most of the reasons for such sentiments are the misunderstandings of the future, the social and social insecurity of citizens, poverty, the traffic in food products, which are now accounted for by more than 40 percent of the consumer budget, the protests of young people against unemployment, and the reluctance to tolerate authority that has concentrated all the wealth in the hands of the narrow circle of corrupt power. The axiom is that bringing about reforms requires resources and temporary constraints on which society will voluntarily go only if the burden of reforms is borne not only by the citizens of Ukraine but also by the authorities, but by the Ukrainians who will know why they should wear belts today. However, the government of Ukraine has not yet, in our view, presented a clear and clear concept of reforms that are intended to answer the key three questions: how, for what reason, and just when, instead of Ukrainian poverty, the Ukrainian society becomes a successful and prosperous people. We demand real reforms, namely, the five reforms aimed at self-sustaining the nation with goods, technology, and self-sustainment. This is: efficient land use, energy dependency, housing conditions, and understandable taxes, quality education and applied science, a three - level pension system, and insurance medicine. Dear colleagues! If we are carrying out land reform, let us form a more important role for the State in stimulating agricultural production and efficient land use. But you don't have to do that at the expense of poor peasants, as predicted in the sessions of the profile committee that took place on January 2nd and 3rd this year. If we're going to start a housing reform, we need to see among the priorities the formation of the Ukrainians' domestic protection, not the profitability of the businesses that serve them. Among other things, it should be based on a transparent and understandable system of consumer and supplier relations. People need to know who and what they're paying for. If we're doing a real, not a declarative energy reform, so let's start by building our own energy balance, diversifying energy sources and developing our own and affordable energy-saving technologies. If we reform the social sphere, it's time to introduce the second and third levels of pensions. Disasters in health care and public health require urgent steps toward the introduction of insurance. Active reforms also require education and applied science. That's why. Wake up, Ukraine, in time for reform for the future! And to the end. Dear colleagues! Then perhaps it is time to create a working group involving professional project managers, whose basic expertise is the implementation of projects, as well as authorities, including the government, the President's Administration, which will have only one goal: to develop for Ukraine the same five fundamental reforms that can bring peace to the dwindling Ukrainians and restore us to a sense of pride for our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u4	and restore our sense of pride for our own state. Thank you for your attention, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u5	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Please, your performance. Alexander Ephraim will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u6	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Every year in Ukrainian politics has its own, and often unattractive, features. Yes, 2010 was the culmination of television politics when a television screen came up with a cassette of teleheroes and at the same time failures in real affairs. Of course, things aren't for themselves. It's all right. 2011 was marked by the violence of political cynicism. In support of one part of the power to defile another part, publicly, demonstratively to embarrass some oligarchs by being kept in other parts, including foreign ones, by the way, is this true of some mass media, cynicism? Cynicism. And when the multimillionaires end up talking about social justice and the poverty of the people in clothing with accessories, for the cost of just one set whose ordinary family could live for 10 years — cynicism? Yes, of course. A patented fraudster sheds crocodile tears about poor people, and then, looking at a multi-thousands of dollars wristwatch, sits in his car for more than 100,000 euros stolen from road construction -- cynicism? Absolutely. A person who proved to be a complete failure in high positions of authority yesterday promises to be a paradise on earth with him tomorrow. Mosquito cynicism. Just like a false combination, on the one hand, of self-infatuation and superiority, haughtiness and vanity, and on the other hand, of false nationalism. And a hundred percent are paid for publications with self-waving and dirtying of others in each number of regional weekly ratings, which goes to millions of dollars of money, of course, not later earned. If you truly fear for the people, they will spend this money on these people, not on their own pyar. Or another ugly type of cynicism, political cynicism -- fancy charity. When the so - called benefactor is followed by a group of hired journalists. Affiliated charity, charity, and television cameras are not charity. Constant public interpretation of requests for Europeans to sign a treaty with Ukraine, and in fact, a systematic non-voice of emissaries in various Eurostructures, which was not signed by any treaty with Ukraine on the basis of a single court case. Cynicism? Cynicism. So, 2012 is there an inevitability that the worlds and the basals will determine the fate of the social processes in Ukraine? No, it is not inevitable, but it is necessary for our people to finally adopt and take advantage of the wise principle: faith, faith, but first test who we can trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u7	Alexander Efraemov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Taras Stacks will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u8	On behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, the honourable President, I congratulate all Ukrainians on the New Year and Christmas of Christ! [[Applause]] On these days, it is customary to draw conclusions and plan for the future. The main result of the government's work last year was political stability and projected economic growth. The State has returned to planned development. Its strategy is outlined in President Viktor Yanukovic's programme “Ukraine for the People” and in the reform plan until 2014. Step by step, we are moving towards the main goal of change — human well-being. It is important to understand that improvements in life will not take place overnight. This is the result of intense long-term cooperation between the authorities and society. Much remains to be done to make the outcome of the reforms tangible to everyone. We are therefore far from complacency when we say that last year the Ukrainian economy grew by five per cent, a stable national currency, a record yield of 55 million tons of grains, preparations for the Euro-2012 infrastructure upgrade: airports, stadiums, subway stations, bridges, hundreds of kilometres of roads are being rebuilt. Today we can talk about the first results of administrative and regulatory reforms. The optimisation of the central executive bodies has improved their effectiveness. The costs of officials were reduced by a billion grevens, and this year the administrative reform will reach regional and local levels. This is the most difficult stage, but it is he who will bring the State closer to a human being. We have established a legislative framework to combat corruption that meets the requirements of the GRECO European Group. This only allowed more than three thousand bribes to be prevented last year by high-ranking officials. At the ninth session, the People's Deputies adopted the relevant European requirements of the Customs Code, amendments to the Tax Code on Small Business Tax Facilitation and more than twenty other laws that are critical to deregulation. Hundreds of licences have been abolished, dozens of procedures have been simplified, and the principle of a single window for entrepreneurs has been introduced. But the effectiveness of even the most perfect law can be nullified by sabotage at the executive level. Regrettably, the methods of work of the tax and other supervisory authorities are not always adequate for the recovery of the business climate. To break this system, we must create effective mechanisms, of course, to comply with the laws adopted. For modernization to succeed, it is important to convey to people the essence of what is happening in the country. Citizens must understand the direction in which the State is moving. Therefore, only after a broad exchange of views did we approach the reform of land relations. Thousands of comments and proposals have been received from people. There is a substantive expert discussion. And all our further steps in this direction will be taken in the light of the outcome of the dialogue that has taken place. As Head of the Deputy faction, appreciating the work of the Supreme Council at its ninth session, I will note that we have adopted more than 530 legislation today. At the same time, in pursuit of quantity, we do not rarely lose ourselves as passed laws. Both the people's and the Government's parliaments have a number of unprepared drafts. Our legislative initiatives must be systematic, tailored to the positions of professionals and based on a well-formed public opinion. Dear colleagues, all of us in this Hall have a consolidated responsibility for the situation in the country. We therefore need to learn from the experience of finding compromises and working together for the benefit of people and the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u9	Taras Stackov, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", next will be by Peter Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u10	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" has been forced to state that, for this plenary week, a parliamentary majority is scheduled to consider and adopt two extremely dangerous bills for Ukraine's sovereignty that relate to the gas transport system and the market for the land. In fact, without having been able to reform the Ukrainian economy in two years, by failing the negotiation process with the European Union by failing the gas negotiations with Russia, the Ukrainian Cabinet simply wants to banally allow the privatisation of two, perhaps the main or last assets that Ukraine has, the gas transport system and the land. How does the Cabinet of Ministers justify the bill that stands today in the order of the day and applies to the gas transport system? This bill gives the Cabinet of Ministers the right to take any action on the gas transport system, including privatization, transfer to the statutory fund of various joint ventures. The Cabinet of Ministers tells us that we need to reform the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine. We claim to be deceit and hypocrisy. Ukraine has been a member of the Energy Community for a year. During that year, Ukraine was obliged to adapt its legislation to European standards. Nothing's been done in a year. Instead, there is a law that has one single purpose: to allow Ukraine's gas transport system from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine and to transfer it to Russia's Gazprom. If the Ukrainian authorities really wanted to reform the gas transport system and the gas market in Ukraine, it would not do so. She would arrange for gas intake points on the eastern border of Ukraine. It would transfer contracts with European companies from the Western border to the East. It would create conditions that would make our gas transport system attractive for gas transit. Instead, it is simply an attempt to obtain once more cheap gas in exchange for the Ukrainian pipe. And now it's the main thing. The strategic mistake of Ukrainian authorities is that they're looking for cheap gas in Russia and they're willing to sell anything for this cheap gas. In fact, Russia will never give cheap gas. Cheap gas should be sought in Europe. Why did no one ask that question, why is gas in Germany cheaper than gas in Ukraine? And because Ukraine is monopolistically dependent on just one Gazprom, and it will always dictate the price it wants. And Germany can buy gas from at least three sources: Norway, Qatar, and now it will buy from the United States. So the problem is that the Ukrainian authorities are focused on relations with Russia and on the culinary political arrangements. At least the experience of the strategic Ukrainian partner, Poland, could be mentioned. What part of the gas is purchased in Russia, builds a terminal of compressed gas on the Baltic Sea, extracts its own now solar gas, and imports Germany's gas by substitution. It turns out that this is possible in European practice. And so in Poland, gas will always be cheaper than in Ukraine. And I'd like our authorities to just be interested in that experience. You don’t need to be a pioneer; you just need to know how countries who want to have energy independence behave, especially gas. But to do that, the Ukrainian authorities need to make a civilisational choice towards Europe, not just in the economy, but primarily in the rule of law. Don't put political opponents in jail. And to act as a civilised Europe does. And then we're going to have cheap competitive gas and Ukraine's economy is going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u11	Thank you, too. Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Please, your performance. Next is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, comrades, having summarized the results of our work, in the last year, 2011, I inform you that, in defending the social and economic rights of Ukrainian workers and the Company of Ukraine, only in the framework of two of our all-Ukrainian projects: “Work, protection, wages”, and “Control, order, justice” have been able to bring back to the workers more than 600 million bracelets of wages. We were able to protect those whose pockets were deceived by means of excessive bills for utilities, and they tried to clean them up once and for all. There are many examples. Starting with Lvov, where the communists were able to pay off the payroll of the emergency ambulance brigade. Zitomir, where we have managed to pay off half the debts of tram and trolleybus workers. The Odessa area, where we helped to restore justice and pay off debts in enterprises such as the Odessa Project Institute*** Institute, Bread Base No. 77, the Odessa Congregation of Bread Products, the Storm Research Institute and many others. Yes, Communists helped, helped, and would help people, defend their rights and freedoms. But let's look at things real. Without a specific, personal struggle of every worker, without a radical, anti-crisis socio-economic programme, Ukraine will not be able to avoid a social catastrophe, nor will it be possible to face a new wave of global crisis. Unfortunately, the Government has not been able to offer society an adequate time-consuming anti-crisis programme. The 2012 budget for all parameters adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the social defult budget. Moreover, after obtaining an unlawful, irresponsible decision by the Constitutional Court, the authorities de facto abolished such protected articles, allowing the Cabinet of Ministers to determine who and how much to pay and whether to pay at all. Thus, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has introduced a legal know-how, a special enforcement regime depending on the wishes of the Cabinet of Ministers. It does not tolerate criticism and the foreign policy course of the current authorities. Contrary to sound logic and their pre-election promises, nothing has been done largely to achieve a new level of economic ties with Russia, which would allow Ukraine's energy security to be fully ensured, to ensure that gas prices are acceptable to our economy. The Government has inadmissibly prolonged the question of the establishment of a gas transport consortium and has thus virtually deprived Ukraine of the advantages of a transit State. Ukraine's unthinkable policy of independence has been pushed into a gas stalemate and is now trying to get out of it, raising the price of gas for the population and housing and utilities. It's unacceptable. Therefore, the Company requires, and this is reflected in our anti-crisis programme, first of all, to establish the most severe state control over all the wells in Ukraine without exception, to provide our housing and utility complex with domestic gas. That is, cheap Ukrainian gas, i.e. 200 grivens per thousand cubic metres for the population of Ukraine, and expensive Russian $416 per thousand cubic metres for the oligarchs, if they are unable to agree on more favourable conditions with the Russian Federation. Secondly, immediately start the process of accession to the Single Economic Area with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. The faction of the Compartium of Ukraine believes that, by rejecting participation in the Single Economic Area, which has effectively earned since 1 January 2012 in favour of peaceful European integration, the power commits treason to the interests of our people and betrays the interests of future generations. Once again, I insist that Ukraine's full participation in the EP is, at this stage, the only way out. Indeed, the EP is also the power of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization to the BRIC States, where billions of people are living where they have enormous natural resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u13	Finish up, please. Andrey Kozemyka's faction "BUT" is "The Fatherland." Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u14	Good afternoon! First of all, I am authorized to carry out the personal commission of our leader, Julius Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, and on her behalf to welcome everyone with the New Year and the bright Christmas of Christ! But wish for happiness, health, and, above all, faith! For only unwavering faith will give us the strength and inspiration to endure in these difficult times that our nation and all the Ukrainian public are experiencing today. Unfortunately, for our political leader, the head of the Fatherland Party of Yulia Timoshenko, did not bring justice at the beginning of this year to decide her fate. A frightened authority that feels the powerful influence of Timoshenko's authority on the real Ukrainian patriots, and their millions, is doing everything they can to get the leader of opposition out of the political game. On the pre - New Year’s Eve, she was taken in secret and in a hurry from the Lukyaniv S.I.A. to the Kachaniv colony. Why did they do so, since all of this secretly causes mistrust and resentment? The answer is simple: The authorities have warned the leaders of the state that thousands of citizens who will be gathered to celebrate the New Year’s celebration of the Mayan Independence, united by the idea of justice, can go to the Lukyanian SSO and try to free Yulia Timoshenko from illegal imprisonment. Timoshenko wanted to see more than 11 million Ukrainians as president, and it is worth counting on. Although Justice Minister Lavrinovich had assured journalists the day before that she would remain in Kiev’s SIS until the investigation of open criminal cases against the leader of the opposition was completed. But the authorities are maneuvering, and they are moving dangerously far from the capital. They continue to act with special cynicism. On all television channels and on the Internet, the conditions of Julia Timoshenko are demonstrated, implying that she has an exclusive environment for increased comfort. You think Julia Volodymyr and her supporters don't understand why this is being done? But of course, to provoke the irritation of millions of ordinary Ukrainians who may actually live in worse conditions — in dormitories, in inns, incinerators, and in semi-contaminated rural homes. But it is a disgrace to the authority itself that it cannot create decent living conditions for its citizens and hopes that people will envy prison comfort. The demonstration of the "Golden Cage" for Julia Tymoshenko has turned society's attention away from the main: Juli Tymoshenko is imprisoned for nothing. By keeping Timoshenko out of active life, the country’s leaders feel that they have untied their hands and can continue to do whatever they want to do, without hindrance to embalming national strategic objects for their own good. If anyone has doubts, let him look into the agenda of today’s session, today’s week, for which the majority is willing to vote. What is proposed today in Government Bill 9429 to amend the Pipeway Transport Act poses a direct threat to energy security. Under government law, it will be possible to privatize a state-owned enterprise, a major pipeline. At the time of Julia’s initiative, Timoshenko passed a law prohibiting the privatization of the GTS. At that time, more than 400 deputies voted. They knew that GTS was not just a tap pipe. Regrettably, the current authorities are unable to protect the interests of the state, to confuse partners with the position of Ukraine. So the only thing she can do is think about today, sell everything that's possible, and put it in her interest. The methodical outpouring of national interests has begun since the so - called Kharkiv covenants. What about tomorrow? And tomorrow the earth. The government already intends to take a look at the most sacred of citizens, the Ukrainian land, because this week there is the Land Market Act. Our faction has repeatedly warned, the Land Market Act of the present edition is the creation of conditions for the biggest affair. And the last. Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" all the way to active power, don't drive the Ukrainian people into a dead end.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u15	Microphone, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u16	Stop the political repression and allow Ukraine to move in a progressive, democratic direction, for the desire for freedom will not stop. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Factions finished speaking. Regarding the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask that you prepare the necessary references and assignments. Dear National Deputies, in view of the acute nature of the issues involved in the draft Law on the Market in the Land and the Reformation of the Petroleum Gas Complex, let me lead you to your knowledge of what was going on during the Conciliation Council. In view of the fact that the Communist faction proposed on Friday during the "hour of questions to the Government" to examine all the circumstances involved in negotiating cooperation in the gas field with the Russian Federation, to hear information and to get the necessary answers from the Minister of the Fuel and Energy Complex, Yuri Boyka, and thus to suggest that it would be appropriate to consider the draft Law on reforming the oil and gas complex after receiving the answers from the minister. That is why the Conciliation Council turned to that position. I also held consultations with the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue, and we agreed to look into it together, and it needs to be considered. In which part, in whole or in part, is this another issue after appropriate consultations and hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So I'd like to make an understanding of the very idea that we're going to consider this, that there's an alternative bill after we hear information from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Second, on the draft Law on the Land Market. Dear colleagues, I would ask you very much not to create problems in an empty place. Again, a proposal was made at the Conciliation Council: In view of the fact that the committee’s working group was working on this law during New Year’s celebrations, it was necessary for the committee to meet to finally agree on the committee’s option that would be offered to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After the final agreement has been reached, we will hold a meeting of the Conciliation Council to lead to the Supreme Council, to the general public, which is proposed at the exit, and then we will move on to a review of the relevant law. So in this regard, I would like to ask that we were calm because the bills matter. And I warn you, this bill does not have the right to sell land to foreigners. Therefore, those concerned with Ukrainian land would have to break the problem at least three years ago when appropriate legislation was in place. So let's work clearly and make responsible decisions. Is there no objection? Thank you. Now, honourable national deputies, we turn to Tuesday’s January 10th schedule. A vote is taken on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Bill on the Unification of Territorial Communities. [[Registration number 9590, government]] Please vote. [[10:33:14]] For 237 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the conduct of public procurement is put to the vote. [[Registration number 9451]] Please vote. [[10:33:45]] For 263 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to strengthen State control over the activities of stock market participants. [[Registration number 9493]] Please vote. [[10:34:16]] For 271 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Law of Ukraine "To amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine to increase liability for infringements of personal data protection legislation" on the transfer of the deadline for entry into force. [[Registration numbers: 9624, 9624-1]] Please vote. [[10:35:03]] For 312 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Higher Education Act. [[Registration numbers: 9655, 9655-1, plus the bill introduced by Yuri Miroshnichenko, i.e. three bills]] Please vote. Three bills, yes. This is the government, then Arsenius Yatzenuk, Lesia Orobec and Yuri Miroshnichenko. [[10:35:40]] For 279 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Vines is being announced for consideration. [[on secondary wine enterprises]] [[9023]] The committee suggests that the reduced procedure be considered. Please vote. [[10:36:16]] For 231
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u18	Offer supported. I invite you to report to the Deputy Minister for Agrarian Politics and Food, Sena Alexandre Vasilovich. Please, two minutes. Get ready for the Sidellick Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u19	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Grapes is presented for your consideration. [[on secondary wine enterprises]] The purpose of the bill is to bring its provisions into line with article 4 of the Law on the Free Management System in part of the duplicates of the permit to produce dry materials in unfavourable years for harvesting grapes, to clarify the terms for not allowing double treatment of the concept of primary and secondary winemaking and to allow secondary winemaking plants to cook the cups in the production of dry and semi-dry, semi-sweet wines. I think the adoption of the bill will ensure the rational use of grape raw material, the production of planned quantities of dry wine, and the unfavourable harvesting years of support for the domestic producer. Please support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u20	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The head of the Committee’s subcommittee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Sidelnik Ivanovic, reports. The executioner then. Grigory Mikolaiovich, Kaletnik, please, the opinion of the committee. Gregory Mikolaiovich, the opinion of the committee on this bill, please. Oh, there you go. Well, Ivan Ivanovich, I've invited you five times.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 11 October, last year, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on Grapes and Grapes. The Committee notes the following. In that bill, it is proposed to add to the functions of secondary wine-winning enterprises the notion of “wine processing” and “purchase preparation”, which under the current law is only a function of primary wine-growing enterprises. If these changes are adopted, secondary wine enterprises will be given the right to produce any mixture of wine of unknown origin. Thus, uncontrolled production and supply for sale of mixtures unknown to the content would be indicated, which would not comply with existing legislation. The interpretation of the concept of its own stable commodity base as vineyards, which are taken into account by operators as main means of production or are leased, does not give rise to the definition of either the size of the leased area or the length of the lease. Consequently, any small enterprise can rent or submarine ten square metres of vineyards for a period of one month and be given the opportunity to provide a new brand of wine from the winery for approval. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u22	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u23	I'll send you to work on it. The wine, respected companions, is to our delight. But if this law makes wine, it'll work. The Reforms for the Future Group will not support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u24	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Then please write down if you need to discuss the matter. Names of the national MPs, please. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions. Sergey Gordienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u25	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee considered the bill and unanimously decided to send it for further work. And my personal point of view is that this law has to be rejected, because it doesn't essentially solve two fundamental things in our market for these products. The first question is that we are not able to produce quality products and control the state all the processes that are taking place in the production of grapes, in the production of baths, in the production of wine and in the distribution of wine in Ukraine. You know that Ukraine now consumes two medical standards, so to speak, allowing alcohol materials that are already harmful to the health of the population. If this law allows us in the secondary market to make loving surrogates, surrogates of guilt materials, we make the situation worse with quality products in our market, and this threatens the health of the population. You know that much of this product today is made from materials called not primary processing, but from materials called powdered wine that are imported. Outside of Ukraine, and they're being produced, they're being distributed in our market. And there is no wild market in any country of the world. I'm in favour of rejecting this law. Not re-read, but reject. And I suggest to the government that it develop a fundamental concept of supporting domestic wine production that will ensure the health and normal consumption of quality products rather than surrogates. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u26	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u27	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The Communist faction won't support this bill, it agrees with the committee's conclusions that will roll a variety of barrels and mixes, and please pass the word to your colleague Blackmoreov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u28	Blackmore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u29	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! I want to say that this bill is purely lobbyist. This bill is designed to destroy our original wine. This bill is being sent against European legislation, with which we have only recently agreed on all issues in the Grapes and Wine Act. The draft bill would like to take the responsibility of preparing any mixtures they wish, calling them whatever name they wish: without taking account of geographical origin, without taking into account grape varieties. I, like my previous colleague, would like to propose that the draft be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u30	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u31	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, you know how sorry it is to talk about this in 2012, but in the world, it's less natural and natural. And if some of the colleagues who decide that they're not natural, their personal conclusion or personal choice, then if we don't eat natural products, let's put an end to it here. Right here in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're against the fact that in winemaking we're moving our producers with actually cheap powder wines that will compete with them in a way that will cost 12 bracelets of wine, that's the first. Secondly, we are against the State moving away from controlling the quality of these products, giving the local authority a questionable right to make a decision that this year is not conducive and that this enterprise can engage in buying or buying wines for its imagination. I would like to remind you that the international standard of the ISO series, which proves that there are standards in the field of quality or subject matter, is not mandatory in the field of winemaking. Therefore, the MP's Reform for the Future will not only support this bill but will take a firm stand against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u32	Please, Vladimir Bondarenko of BUT. There's a minute, there's a right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u33	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Back in the '60s and '70s, there was this label or little poster in the shops of Ukraine that said, "It's appropriate to drink safe sunspots, wine." Unfortunately, this cannot be hanged in any of the fault departments today, because what we see there is far from to blame. So I think we need to give MinAPC or interested MPs a real wine law in Ukraine, which, first of all, would give us a full understanding of how many vineyards we have that are productive, because our grapes make up only 2 percent of France's vineyards, which are the prospects for the development of this sector, would reinforce criminal responsibility for producing beverages that are far from wine, and would certainly set the form and content of labels on wine products that would guarantee the use of wine, not surrogates. So it has to be rejected, but it's a natural law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u34	Please, the faction has the right to speak. Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, there are various bills that can be understood, this bill cannot be understood. Why, when there are good factories in Ukraine, the winegrowers grow up, take the last brand of Shabo wines, Inkerman wines, other wines that you can be proud of. Today, we are pushing forward a bill that can do more harm to domestic winemaking than anything. Why is this being done? To make some money. The legislative body cannot bless counterfeiting. We don't need so much in the internal market that our people are digesting. Today, wine requires a certain culture, an attitude towards it, an entire science, an entire culture in which the nations grew up, have a beautiful culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u36	Finish it, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u37	The bill cannot be supported, and the faction will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u38	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Unfortunately, I must say that this law does not really withstand any criticism, but the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes the right decision. Yeah, it's government. I am voting on the first regulatory proposal for the adoption of the draft law on the basis of amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Grapes and Grapes. [[Registration number 9023]] [[on secondary wine enterprises]] I'd like to make a statement. [[10:49:27]] For-0 The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on the responsibility of those convicted of absorptive punishment in order to replace punishment with more mild]] [[Registration number 9025]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:50:09]] For 228 Decision taken. The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. Correspondent is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine. [[on the responsibility of those convicted of absorptive punishment in order to replace punishment with more mild]] The purpose of the bill is to impose responsibility for the avoidance of punishment that is not related to the disqualification of persons by whom such punishment is intended to replace punishment in the form of deprivation or restriction of liberty with a more mild one on the basis of a court decision or an act of pardon. In this regard, it is proposed that the criminal code should be supplemented by a new article that would determine the legal consequences of the abolition of the convicted person, the order of substitution of punishment, and the criminal procedure code should be supplemented by a separate article that would determine the order of abolition of the more mild penalty. The introduction of proposed changes is due to the fact that existing legislation provides for the responsibility of avoiding punishment only on the basis of the judgment of the court and not to those who have been replaced by a more mild punishment. In this connection, the project suggests that such persons may be returned for the execution of the sentence imposed upon them by judgment, by cancelling the court’s decision to replace it. Such a mechanism of responsibility is more appropriate and humane than attracting new criminal responsibility. With regard to the observations made by both the committee of profile and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate that the responsibility of these persons is covered by two articles of the Criminal Code, such as article 389 and article 390. I would like to point out, then, that only those individuals who have been sentenced by the courts are the subject of these articles and are not specifically involved in the deprivation of liberty. Not the other person who has been replaced by a more mild type of punishment. At the same time, I wanted to draw your attention to the practice of both the courts and the law enforcement agencies that have been formed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u40	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u41	Thank you very much. In particular, a couple of statistics. During 2010, criminal enforcement sent 2.5 thousand allegations to the Public Prosecutor’s Office regarding a criminal offence against such persons, and nearly half of them decided not to do so. At the same time, the Attorney General’s Office was sent letters to the District Attorneys ’ Office, which, according to articles 389 and 390, can only be convicted of those persons and only those who have been sentenced and who avoid the execution of the sentence, not as a result of the commutation of that sentence determined by the court’s judgment. Please support this bill, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u42	Thank you. There's been a replacement of the co-rapporteur. He'll be speaking as a co-rapporteur for Yuri Prokopchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u43	Good afternoon! With the coming worlds! Happiness, health, good things for all, and a voice never to be lost! Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Legislative Security of Law, prepared in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. [[on the responsibility of those convicted of absorptive punishment in order to replace punishment with more mild]] The bill proposes to supplement Ukraine's Criminal Code with a new article 85, footnote 1, “Legal effects of the removal of a convicted person from a punishment ordered to replace punishment with a more mild one” and the Criminal Procedure Code, with a new article 408, footnote 4, “Measuring the abolition of a more mild penalty”. The proposed amendments also provide that a portion of the more mild penalty imposed on convicted persons by law will be counted by the court within the time limit prescribed by the court for punishment under the rules provided for in the first article of article 72 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. According to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, the return of the sentenced person to the sentence imposed by the court by abolishing the court’s decision to replace this punishment is more mild and humane than the attraction of a new criminal responsibility. After examining the bill, the Committee considers it necessary to note that the removal of a person from a more mild punishment, which he was given in exchange to the full, falls within the scope of the crimes provided for in articles 389 and 390 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. In turn, according to the rules laid down in article 82, part six, of the Criminal Code, the court adds to the procedure provided for in articles 71 and 72 of the Code. Thus, the issue is fully settled by valid legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u44	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u45	and therefore there is no need to supplement the codes with new articles. So to shorten, I'm going to say, there are conclusions from the scientific and expert, the Chief Legal Authority, who think that this law, the bill, should be rejected. And the committee actually made this decision about rejecting the bill. Nevertheless, in my personal opinion, I said to the committee that this bill could and should be supported. We need to be a little bit nicer. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this bill. Please put the names of the national MPs on the board. Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u47	Dear colleagues! I think it's worth supporting this bill. He is right because it is a question of humanizing the existing legislation, which foresees that there may be a substitute for a more mild punishment, but if the person to whom such a humane position of the State is manifest is being improperly served is to be avoided, then the procedure for returning to that punishment that has been prescribed by the court should be clearly prescribed. It is very important that this is a European approach, since the return procedure is provided only through a court decision. So I think it's worth supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u48	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u49	Yuri Carmazin. The Party of Motherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Well, you and I have seen what laws are the most urgent for the government today. We saw that it was important for the people to use forged wine, which was signed by the Prime Minister. At a time when I want to ask the Prime Minister or the people who are sitting here. Ladies and gentlemen! What was done to restore electricity to Kharkiv University of Air Force? Two weeks of people sitting without light. Why? Oblenergo, electricity and so on. This must have been the first question, Vladimir Mikhailovich. And we're asking some secondary questions. This is also the question of change. A new amendment to the Criminal Code is planned to be made, and to the Criminal Procedure Code, which sets out how to abolish a more mild penalty. [[Article 85.]] [[408 with badge 8]] I absolutely agree with the committee's conclusion, with the conclusion of scientific expertise, and I would like the government to know that the General Section of the Criminal Code provides two grounds for exemption from the sentence of probation in connection with the conclusion of the statute of limitations. In theory, these releases are either conditional or unconditional. And because of that existing base, which is in the Criminal Code, that's quite enough. It is even sufficient to recognize today the actions or omissions of the government in restoring the energy supply of the army by criminal means. Because of this, the project must be rejected, and the government of Azarov must be ready for the jury. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. I would like to remind you that the committee is proposing to reject the bill, and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is of the same opinion. Vladimir Bondarenko, please have one minute. Faction “BUT – Fatherland”.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u51	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Of course, the declared policy of humanizing Ukrainian legislation, which seems to be in place, remains selective. Humanization has been in place before. I have studied in detail the practice of Judge Kyrieve’s work, who has completely groundlessly condemned Julia Timoshenko on top of seven years of imprisonment, has several cases involving drug abuse, drug trafficking, manufacturing, drug use, and so forth, including the fact that he has not condemned any of these people to actual punishment, but has released them with conditional terms of punishment, including a four - time recidivist. Therefore, if the Supreme Council of Justice were not political in Ukraine, we would certainly not have to adopt any new rules. But so far we're living in a politicized country, so this law, it's supposed to be settled, it doesn't make sense today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u52	In accordance with the Rules, honourable members of the People's Parliament have put to the vote the first motion for the adoption of the draft Law on the basis of amendments to the Criminal and Criminal Procedures Code on the liability of those convicted of absorptive punishment, which has been ordered to replace punishment with a more mild one. [[Registration number 9025]] [[11:01:58]] For 214 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Strengthening Responsibility for Violations of Labour and Labour Protection Requirements is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service, Hochotva Alexander Ivanovich, and co-rapporteur, Head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Savchenko Igor Vasilovich. The committee proposes to consider the issue of a reduced proposal. I'm putting it to a vote. Please vote. [[11:02:52]] For 224 Decision taken. The reporter is Alexander Ivanovich Hohotva. Please. Dear colleagues, while the reporter is coming, you and I have traditionally been working with you for the past few weeks before the completion of all the issues identified by the schedule for a specific day. Please keep that in mind. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u53	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for violations of labour protection and protection requirements, which also provides for increased administrative and criminal charges by increasing fines imposed on those responsible for violations of labour protection and protection legislation. The need to draft the bill has been caused by an increase in the number of violations of legislation in the field of labour protection and protection by employees and officials. In drafting the bill, it was considered that since the administrative fine could not be more than criminal, the bill proposed to increase the fines of articles 267, 271, 272 and 275 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. The bill agreed with all interested executive authorities and social partners without notice. The adoption of the law does not require budget spending, but it will contribute to additional revenue. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u54	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Igor Savchenko will inform you of the committee's decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u55	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a bill amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code to increase responsibility for violating labour protection and protection requirements. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, according to which: First. The second part of article 41 and articles 47, 58, 93, 94, 188 with the "4" badge raises the size of the sanctions. The other one. Article 41 is complemented by a new part. This part establishes administrative responsibility for failure to provide information to a specially authorized central authority on an industrial accident. Third. A new edition of part two of article 231 is proposed. It defines the authority of the responsible officials to deal with administrative offences. Articles 267, 271, 272, 275 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code propose to increase the amount of fines. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill is appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u56	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u57	the subject of the legislative initiative for further development. In turn, the committee considers that the adoption of this bill will improve the legal regulation of responsibility for violating labour protection and protection requirements. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the results of the first reading of the plenary session, that the bill be adopted on a basis. [[Registration number 9071]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u58	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, if necessary, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, your name, please. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Vladimir Oilynik will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u59	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! I wanted to support this bill, and to a large extent thanks to a sufficiently thorough explanatory note proposed in this bill by the subject of the legislative initiative. In particular, there is a tendency, a negative trend in the nature of property protection, a violation of state ownership rights over the years. And the table is given in the explanatory table, sorry, in an explanatory note, which states that there has been an increase in violations of articles as 47 -- violation of the right of state ownership per nadr, 57 -- violation of the protection requirements, 58 -- violation of the rights and requirements of geological research and so on. What does such a negative trend indicate? To a certain extent, I do not say that, in general, but to a certain extent, that the punishment and responsibility involved in violating these articles is not effective, that is, it is not one that motivates the employer to ensure the normal conditions and the fulfilment of his or her basic functions, his or her obligations. And that's true, because if you look at the maximum administrative fine in the area of labour protection and industrial security, which can be placed on the employer, on the person in charge, it's up to 14 non-taxable minimums of citizens' income, it's $238. It is understandable that the employer is much easier to pay 238 dollars, thus regulating normal working conditions, working protection. And so this negative trend confirms the importance of increasing responsibility or aggravation, if you want, the responsibility for violating those articles that I said. Clearly, then, this bill can be adopted on a basis. Our faction of the National Party will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u60	Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u61	My fellow Members, of course, this bill needs to be supported on the ground, and I think that life confirms that this is an issue that is not settled. Usually, when an accident occurs in production, we observe the procedure as much as we can to prevent its publication from happening as much as possible, and it happens from the entire management of the enterprise and organization from the brigade to the head of the organization to prevent the fixation of this accident. In this regard, the introduction of a new administrative article, the responsibility for not providing such information, will have a direct impact on the reduction of accidents. Of course, it is a characteristic point of this bill that we practically increase fines by four or more in one case. This will also affect the fact that the managers responsible for safety have faithfully carried out their duties. I think it's worth supporting this bill because it settles the legal gaps that have arisen in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u62	Vladimir Bondarenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherhood."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u63	"Julia Timoshenko Block", Vladimir Bondarenko. Of course, any regulation in this area should be improved on the basis of practice. It's a terrible practice: that not every day, but sometimes every day, in the press, in the media, we see reports of the deaths of people in Donbas, Lugansk, other regions, we see what's happening in rail and other transport, we see what's happening today in electricity and so on. But why does this happen, especially in the mining sector, because those fines that are, are, in fact, meager, and in the context of billions or more of their profits, their impact on the processes that are going on is irrelevant. Today, there is no incentive for the owner of any kind of production, for the person who receives the main profits, or for the main shareholder to develop a labor protection system, because he is not interested in it, and for fines, he is moving away from it like flies. I think that's the basis that we can accept, but we need to base this law on the struggle for the lives of the people who work, not the fines that go into the state budget, and forget about them who paid them, but the care that gas analyzers on the mines don't smear soap or anything else with paraffin, so that they can work to make it a criminal responsibility for those who are personally responsible for the safety of people in mines and other productions. Indeed, they should not soften their legislation, but they should make it worse. If a person gets the money for this, if he's going to provide it instead of providing it, he's going to have to sit in jail, otherwise the orphans' children who are going to stay after those workers who have died will curse him for the rest of their lives. I would also like to draw attention to the coercion of owners of such productions with dangerous working conditions to establish modern - day new remedies. They need to be forced, as a direct imposition, to be closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u64	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, please. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u65	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! I'll call your attention to that for a second time. What we're looking at after the holidays is not the situation in the country, and not the measures that can be taken can still be used to save it, but we're looking at small-scale drop-and-drop bills, butterfly bills. I would like to quote the opinion of the Scientific and Expert Office, which shows that the recent analysis of the changes made to the Code of Administrative Offences shows a tendency to increase the compositions of administrative offences that provide responsibility for failure to comply with prescriptions or legal requirements. And they have 40 of them. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to see you. To draw your attention to the fact that now the lights of the arsenal, the 6th Armoured Force of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, located in the Chernigian Highlands, are being turned off, there are 70 percent of the ammunition.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u66	Thank you. With regard to the light-off information, I ask the secretariat to prepare an appropriate request for the Cabinet of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill is appropriate to re-establish the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. The first is therefore to vote on the first proposal to adopt the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for violations of labour protection and labour protection requirements. [[Registration number 9071]] Please vote. [[11:16:21]] For 292 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! A draft law amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine on increasing responsibility for interference with pipelines is proposed for your consideration. [[Registration number 9344]] The reporter is Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Makuha. And the co-reporter will be George Prokopchuk. And the proposal was, by a reduced procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:17:11]] For 227 Decision taken. Please report to Volodymyr Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u67	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The need for the adoption of this law is due to the increasing number of illegal violations in the work of industrial and highway pipelines, including through so - called cuts aimed at the theft of oil products and the theft of appropriate equipment. And statistics here are very disconcerting. If in 2008 there were 398 such facts, in 2011 there were 472. And the total amount of damage caused by such illegal acts in 2011 alone amounted to more than 9 million dollars. In addition, such actions create real conditions for emergency situations with severe consequences: oil spills, environmental pollution, the danger of explosions, and other threats to human health. The opposition to such offences is compounded by the imperfections of legislation, such as article 292 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the "Injury of Mainline Oil Pipeways" provides for the presence of a criminal composition only in the event of damage to Mainway Pipeways and does not provide for criminal liability for damage to industrial pipelines operated by industry. At the same time, only the company Skrnaft was using more than 6,000 kilometers of naphtha and pipelines, discard lines and plumes, which are industrial pipelines. The Crushing Company operates more than 600 kilometres of industrial gas-condensate pipelines and so forth, but today the criminal case under article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is not possible because of the damage to the industrial pipeline itself, regardless of the significant social danger of such actions. Thus, the adoption of this law will promote the safe operation of industrial pipelines and protect them from criminal interference with their work, which will have a significant positive impact on the operation of the oil - gas industry. With that in mind, please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u68	Thank you, too. Yuri Prokopchuk of the committee is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u69	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A law enforcement committee has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 292 of the Criminal Code on increasing responsibility for interference with pipelines. The purpose of the bill is to establish and strengthen the responsibility for interfering with the activities of the main industrial, inter-industrial gas distribution and internal gas and gas and petroleum products. The bill proposes that the name and part of the first article of article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which now imposes responsibility for damage to oil and oil pipelines, should be added in the new edition. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill should be rejected. After considering Bill No. 9344, members of the committee agreed with the comments made by the experts of the General Scientific and Experimental Administration, but given the problems that exist in Ukraine today, including in this sector, when they actually interfere with the work of oil pipelines, they are hit, including an explosive situation, and some pipelines have done so when oil broke out there, environmental damage was actually proposed by the committee to finalize the bill. What should we work on? This should be done in the context of giving proper justification for the current model of criminal law, appropriate social relations. The committee thus recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft bill be rejected and sent for further work as a result of the first reading of the plenary session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u70	Yes, thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, name, please show me. Vladimir Olijnik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I think we need to adopt this bill as a basis. The essence of this bill is very simple. It is proposed to increase the number of buildings named at the disposal of part one of article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine by including in the text of the article the reference to highway capacitors, oil and gas pipelines, telemechanics, electrical defenses, electrical power plants, and gas equipment. The problem is that we often see from the media what's going on in the pipelines. And the question is not only about stealing substances that are transported through these pipelines, but also about security. According to experts, about 50 to 70 percent of the pipeline's strength decreases if an unsanctioned cut is passed. Undoubtedly, the effects of corrosion are increasing, and in this regard we have side effects, such as environmental pollution and the threat to real life and health. In this regard, the bill clarifies legal definitions and allows for a clearer application in this article, as a liability for offences committed, of an unauthorized gas strike. In this respect, I think we need to take the basis and keep moving towards acceptance as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u72	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u73	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Our group considered this issue, it was separate from our expert board. And we came to a conclusion about that. First. The very problem really exists. We know about the enormous damage that ecology is causing, as well as the general state, in connection with attempts to interfere with oil pipelines, ammonia pipelines, and so forth. There are also gas lines and others. An unsanctioned attempt that usually ends either by explosions, sometimes by human victims, or by the massive spillage of petroleum products with environmental pollution. Clearly, then, those measures that are now provided for by legislation are not sufficient and should be strengthened in this regard. There's a second moment. We sometimes forget that these objects are not just the pipe that goes through. These are also energy objects, electrical supplies, certain transformation structures, and so on, and so on, and so on. An active article already contains some detail. And since this detail is, there's a way that we're going to have to keep going on and on and on. Now we're going this way. In principle, the logic that is accepted is right. We're covering up a number of other points and situations where there might be problems. But in the future, we need to think seriously about some universal formula, because in the end, the goal is cunning. There will be a situation where it will be difficult in court practice to apply this rule to certain interferences and violations that will relate to some very detailed elements of this infrastructure. But now this law is really necessary for adoption. Therefore, our parliamentary group urges everyone to vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u74	And Yuri Carmazin, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u75	Yuri Carmazin. Dear National Deputies! Think about what's going on. There is a normal article 292, which reads: "The damage to oil pipelines and oil pipelines". Of course, there are laws that explain what pipeline transport is, which says that it is a technological complex that functions as a single system and so on. [[That's the law we have.]] No, we're now trying to detail and interfere with the Criminal Code, and I think we need to put the responsibility now for foolish interference in the legislative field. Because a normal legislative field is being destroyed. And the government that's taking the time to approve this kind of thing, I'm going to recommend that we just find 8,000 dollars, 38,000 dollars, you know what? To be calculated from Cherniwoblanergo, which has shut off the power supply of parts that carry combat alterations in the antiair defence system. It's a radio-location unit of air defence troops and a separate task force. 8,000 and 38,000 dollars. Is that a problem, Mikola Janovich Azarov? This is not even a problem with learning Ukrainian. Or Montenegro's district military commission -- 3,000 dollars, you see, owed. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want the Supreme Council not to be taken to a corner, taken away from her, taken away from her, given her the role in which she does nothing in the country today. Come on, we're dealing with serious issues. And that's the question, it's regulated by the current Criminal Code and there's no need for detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u76	Thank you. And I ask Yuri Carmazin not to divulge the State secrets that we are completely disarmed. Vladimir Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u77	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Dear friends, in this bill we are discussing technical intervention in equipment, in the pipe itself, that is, what is clearly visible. But there is a specific sliding expansion in terms of pipeline transport, in terms of oil, gas, ammonia, and electricity. This is a matter of getting closer to these areas of pipeline transport, namely, neglecting the rules of the security zones. I can tell you that in the Kyiv area today, and in other regions, there's land capture, security areas of pipelines, which are actually leading to the fact that once existing 300-meter security zones have turned into 150 meters and then turned into 50 meters, and then some retold tax collectors start drilling on the pipe itself, and then the tractor flies up by 150 meters.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u78	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u79	As it happened on the high-pressure pipeline in Kiev-Svetoshin district a few years ago. So obviously, this law requires not only technical intervention into the object itself or equipment, but also preservation of the security zones of these objects is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office also believes that the bill needs to be rejected. I'd like to take that into account. I now put to the vote a proposal in accordance with the Adoption Rules on the basis of the draft Law amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the liability for interference with pipelines. [[Registration number 9344]] [[11:30:42]] For 262 Decision taken. It is now proposed that the Supreme Council of Ukraine review the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Prostitution and the Subordination of Relevant Matters. [[Registration number 9406]] Since the problem is clear, the committee suggests that it be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:31:29]] For 224 Decision taken. I don't think politicians can do anything else. Rapporteur – Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Dmitry Mikolayovich Vorona, co-rapporteur – First Deputy Head of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Vladimir Mikolayovich Olijnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u81	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences to increase responsibility for prostitution and jurisdiction. The bill proposes to strengthen administrative responsibility for prostitution, as there has recently been a trend towards a steady increase in the number of persons involved in providing sexual services for monetary rewards. In accordance with article 218, only the administrative commissions of the executive boards of the city councils can deal with these matters. Such cases are dealt with solely by the place where the wrongdoer resides, and a large portion of the written protocols remain uncontested. This fact shows that the inability of the administrative commissions to fully counteract and prevent this negative phenomenon. In view of the above, the IMF proposes to make the following changes to the CoAP in the part of increasing responsibility for prostitution by increasing the fine: between 10 and 50 untaxed minimum citizens' incomes, in part one of the first article 181 above, in part two of article 181 above. - 20 to 100. In addition, the amendments to articles 218, 222 and 255 are proposed to transfer the authority to the internal affairs authorities — the militia — to deal with such cases from the administrations of city councils. The implementation of the law will not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. The bill is accepted without notice with all interested central executive authorities, and the Ministry of Justice's observations are fully taken into account. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the irreparability of responsibility for administrative offences, combating social morality crimes, eliminating the causes and conditions that contribute to administrative delinquency. The bill included comments by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Committee on Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u82	Microphone, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u83	the legislative provision of legal protection activities. I want to go to all the national MPs, support this bill in the first reading. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u84	Please take the seat of the committee. Vladimir Olijnik, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u85	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has been reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Prostitution and the Subordination of Relevant Matters. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the Explanatory Note, is to increase the responsibility for the commission of an administrative offence, provided for in article 181 of the Prostitution Act, security, the purpose of administrative assembly and proper control over the implementation of decisions taken in such matters. In discussing the draft Law, the members of the committee drew attention to the lack of definition at the legislative level of the very concept of "occupation with prostitution", which, in turn, allows a police officer to subjectively assess the actions of any person who is attracted to article 181 with a badge 1. Moreover, the transfer of powers of administrative commissions to the executive bodies of the City Council regarding administrative offences referred to in article 181 with the badge 1 of internal affairs does not resolve the question of the implementation of the imposition (?), which is the most important stage in attracting a person to administrative responsibility. Because it is at this stage that the executive authorities will have a problem, namely, to collect a fine from urban prostitutes who live in rural areas. Thus, the very purpose of the administrative tightening provided for in article 23 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences is not to raise a person. After reviewing the bill, the committee considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that its subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u86	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u88	Yes, dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this issue? Yes. Please sign up. Yes, the names of the national deputies. Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions, please. The next one will be Ganushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u89	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, national colleagues! As I look at this law, I ask myself, is this problem of national significance in our country, is it a local problem or a partial problem? I believe that in our country this is a dangerous situation related to this subject that we are considering in this law. Since this is a national disaster that has prompted our young generations to make money in this way, how should this issue be addressed in context, and how should this issue be resolved in our country as a whole? Why did it happen that our young people in European countries alone are more than 100,000 girls in so - called sexual slavery? Not to mention the Far and Near East, about other countries. Why, then, did it happen that in Kiev, in every almost night club and so far, these facilities are legally illegal, underground? Why did it happen that we opened a visa-free regime for sex tourism from European countries? Who are specially coming here and doing this kind of work with our young girls, who are supposed to be the future mothers of our country. Why did this happen? So I'm asking the question: Does this Law solve this problem? What do we want to do, increase the fines? That's it? To give authority to the police, and nothing else. I've seen two of them increase the fine and give the authority to the police. And the question is not to be resolved in general. I believe that this approach to such a tragic situation that has arisen in our country cannot be treated so clearly. And only in part give one or the other authority. I believe that this law needs to be brought back and drawn to the attention of the Cabinet of Ministers, namely, the well - known ministry, perhaps the Ministry of Family and Youth, in order to develop and view this problem, how to protect our young generation from this mess that was created, or created.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u90	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u91	Pulled our young girls. I beg you to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u92	Thank you. People's Deputy Hanushtstak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Next is George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this bill to be another intervention and an attack on local self-government. Why do we put this question to the police? It's a very profitable industry. Why do they want to shut it down from society? Because once again, this is the overlap of the force structures. Why can't we give it to the police? Because, first of all, at the local level, these issues are being dealt with much more strictly, this is the administrative commission, where, by the way, the police are coming in, and it's looking at a whole set of issues. These arguments, which cannot be determined where she lives and so on, are irrelevant, we are prepared to consider a bill where the administration will consider, not the place of residence of the person concerned, according to the fact that the offence is committed. The second position that is, these are very large forks -- that's the first sign of corruption. If the fork is placed, it means that you can determine whether you want to give the upper limit or the lower limit on the full program. We're already looking at this example of the work of the DAI when the dialer says in his opinion, "I can put you in the bottom, but I can give you the top stake, so the middle between them is cash." There is no way to put forks in case the question is dealt with in one person. Third position. The issue of this wrongdoing needs to be addressed in general. In France, the same responsibility lies with the one who orders services, not with the one who provides services. We need to increase the responsibility for pimping, first of all, because we have prostitution, which is primarily a social issue. And we want to take him to the level of criminal responsibility. I'm definitely against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u94	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u95	I'd like to say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u97	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I never knew of the number of people who perform such services of a sexual nature until the end of the DDR site, all the information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs that covers this business, of course, about the full accounting of all those who perform these services throughout the country. And what's interesting is that no one paid attention to it. I have come to realize that the Prime Minister has long since given up on this issue, as has all of Ukraine. But I can see that she still cares about the President. It was likely that some involved levers and responsibilities would be put in place, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs would have to clarify what the information was leaking to the public. So given what's being suggested, just two things to change. The Explanatory Note says what's bothering them, you see, is that it's being looked at by the adminions. The police themselves need to be planted or beaten up, just like the students are now beaten. Students protest against the Higher Education Act, the militia beat them. Then they must be brought to their superiors so that their superiors can be punished. Well, why? It's a democracy. Democracy is blue or regional, or as it's called, January. Therefore, honourable national MPs are certainly better placed in charge of political prostitution, and then, of course, the entire government in charge of the President is responsible for this form of crime. Why? Because they promised people one thing, they made another. That's why I accuse the government and the President's Administration of political prostitution. This has to be thrown away, but I want it out of you. I'll tell you even more seriously. Ukraine is one of the key places of AIDS.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u98	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u99	I'm done. You see, I'm no longer divulging state secrets today. So, AIDS, reverend, six months of the latent period. Now, pay attention! We had criminal responsibility for prostitution and those who used it. I ask: Who was the best to cancel? Today we have hundreds of thousands of so - called jobs. I suggest we turn it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u100	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration are unanimous in their conclusion that the bill needs to be returned to work. That's what I'd like to say. The first proposal to adopt a bill to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences is now put to the vote on increasing responsibility for prostitution and jurisdiction. [[Registration number 9406]] [[11:45:36]] For-43 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the National Archives and Archives is being announced for consideration. [[on the Expertise on the Value of Documents]] [[Registration number 8755]] The reporter is the first Deputy Minister of Justice, Emilianov Inna Ivanovna. And the co-reporter is the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Vladimir Yavorowski. I would like to vote on your motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:46:23]] For 229 Decision taken. Another Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Archives and Archives. The aim of the project is to improve legislation in the area of the introduction of documents to the National Archives Fund and to remove them by establishing mandatory requirements for the expertization of the value of documents, empowering State archives to carry out checks on the state of business and the conditions for keeping documents in all legal persons regardless of the form of ownership. In this connection, the bill required a clear definition of the term “expertise of the value of documents”, a procedure for conducting an expert evaluation of the value of documents on all legal persons, introduced a rule banning removal from the National Archives Fund of any documents created before 1946. At the same time, it has been determined that documents held at the National Archives Foundation until 1991 are state property. State archives have been given the right to monitor compliance with legislation on the National Archives and Archives through certain verifications. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very necessary document, because all the documents that are stored in the National Archives Foundation are, of course, the legacy of our descendants and, of course, our historical composition of our state. I would like to ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this bill and to approve it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u103	Dear voters, distinguished national MPs, respected archivists! So, of course, our story is that a lot of Ukrainian historical and non-historic and farm archives have been lost. As a result of, of course, World War II, as a result, simple and simple, sloppyness. Some documents were destroyed at the time, after declaring the restoration of Ukrainian independence, some were simply hidden, or destroyed, that is, the idea, the problem itself. Ten years ago, the National Archives and Archives Act was passed in 2002. This law worked, it stopped the chaos and all the negatives. many of the negative things that have been in our archive practice. But of course, that's what it does all over the world, the law works, then its weak spots are identified, so to speak, the Achilles Five, and then it's already being amended at this point. That is what we have today. The biggest problem, of course, is not when archives are transferred before. to be stored in the public archives, in the district archives, in the city archives and so forth, and then, when deleted, that's the biggest problem, there might be some ideological motives here, let's say, maybe. There was a constant debate in society about whether they would be destroyed, let's say, there were documents of famine in the 33rd year. Because this bill has certain, certain difficulties, the one that has now introduced the government. Because we think he does have more positive than negative on the committee. As a result, we recommend that the Supreme Council accept him in the first reading. In our second reading, we will certainly take into account the comments of our expert office, where there are very clear and very realistic observations. And I think that this bill will come after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u104	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u105	I'm convinced that after that, after adopting it in the second reading, this law on our archives will be stronger.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up. Yes, Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u107	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I may be just a little bit at a different angle, it's not about this bill, but two important things that I'd like to point out that a lot of archival documents are outside of Ukraine in archives in other countries, and above all, Russia. Often our national archives, regional archives go there to have access and copy these documents, but these services in foreign lands are paid, and quite a large fee. So I have this proposal that both the President and our government and the ministries, when entering into interstate agreements, take into account that these mutual agreement services would be free of charge. This would greatly improve access, including for ordinary citizens, to the archives. And next, I draw attention to what are the examples in Ukraine and in the regions where the government authorities of executive power, local self-government, by referring to the lack of funds, do not submit their documents to the archives. I'd like to check it out. They're referring to a lack of funds. But you realize that these are the years when property was looted, the earth and everything else, that's a pretty deep question and it's going to have huge consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u108	Taras Blackwall, the Reform Group for the Future. The next one will be Stanislaw Arzewittin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u109	Please give the floor to my colleague, Hassuk Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u110	Peter Hassuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u111	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future generally supports the legislative initiative to improve the legal mechanisms for the expertization of valuable documents and to refer them to or remove the National Archives Fund, as well as to monitor the state of archiving and the conduct of legal persons. After all, the unique facts of the loss of valuable documents by the institutions of the National Archives Foundation, which are of national, cultural significance, are convincing evidence of the need for order in the archive. At the same time, the project contains a major flaw that needs to be addressed. Thus, part four of the project, which is proposed to complement article 6, provides that in conducting an expert evaluation of the value of documents, expert committees are guided by typical and well - known sectoral lists of documents. However, it does not define what a list of documents is or who should design and approve them. Needs clarification of the term "duple documents" used in the new edition of Part 10 of the Sixth Bill. The MP's Reform for the Future will support this bill if these observations are taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u112	Thank you, too. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Next is George Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very different opinion from previous reporters, and this gives me the right to say that I have been working in State archives for over 20 years, and I know the real state of affairs in State archives with pay, with a material base, with security. And I think our nation should be ashamed of this state of affairs in this area when researchers in neighbouring countries are already entitled to work on the Internet for a fee. And if you want to see how we work, please go to the Zacarpathian district’s State Archives, the Beregov branch, and you will see the workers sitting in their coats today, sitting in their gloves. You'll see how researchers, in the absence of enough light, are sitting with the shells to examine the document. So when I read this bill, what are the new loads now going to be on archival workers, on industry professionals, and on the explanatory note, it says that it doesn't require material extra security. I think that's enough not to support this bill, by the way, that's the opinion of the Science Administration. Let me give you another example. For example, when a standard is introduced, an expert on the value of documents that have historical value and leave them in the National Archives, I'll give you an example. Today, for example, at the same branch of Beregovsky, which I used to illustrate, documents are kept in many languages: Latin, old Hungarian, which is no longer supported or read today, in German, Romanian, Polish, Czech, Slovak. Please tell me, an expert who has an advance of 320-400 dollars, can he give a proper assessment of these documents? That's why we have to reject this bill. The Minister's office had to be in the complex to consider the real state of affairs in this area and then decide on the extra workload to avoid causing conflicts as an environment of the archival and archiving personnel themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u114	Thank you. Also, sit down. Who's it gonna be? Oleg Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I can't agree with my predecessor on the stand and say that this bill just needs to be rejected. You know, "under the lying rock the water doesn't flow," and by correctly identifying the complex situation in the archives in Ukraine, especially the work of those people who for small money are moving, in most cases really moving, I think we need to improve legislation in this area. How can a person who has spent many years and enough time working in archives, various archives of Ukraine, and the USSR, and other countries confirm that improving the terms of the document that this bill is intended for, is very important. Just like the other quality of the creation of the National Archives Foundation itself, and this is also positive that there is such a desire in the bill to achieve this. At the same time, the right representative of Kabmin and the Ministry of Justice in this case suggested whether it would be helpful to support only the first reading. There are things that need to be corrected. By the way, they're also so technical-legal. For example, article 6 is called "Introduction of Documents into the National Archives Foundation", and the content of this article refers not only to the introduction of documents to the NAF, but also to the removal of documents from the NAF. The contents of the article must match the title of the article. This is the first moment. One second. Although there is more, I'm just another name. It is said that article 6 should be completed, and it is stipulated that the expert committees are guided by typical and well - known lists of documents during the expert review. But it is completely unclear what are these lists of documents? It's supposed to be in the law. Who should design these lists? And who's to say so? Because that depends on the content of this article as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Then Vladimir Bondarenko. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Vladimir Mikhailovich, thank you for your word. That's why I asked, because it's both topical and sensitive. Even after discussion today in the session room, we see that the main part of the Ukrainian national deputies is increasingly leaning towards the material and technical provision of our archives. And you could ask a respected colleague of Yavorowski, a professional committee to hold some committee hearings about the state of affairs that is done in our archives and at our wages and at the incineration and at the buildings. For example, for more than 10 years, of which the inheritance of the offspring can be discussed, more than 10 years are long - term buildings in Ternopol, the Ternopil district archive. Eighty-five percent ready. Government, the authorities will not complete this construction. In the meantime, this inheritance of offspring is stored in furnished facilities and is destroyed and destroyed. In article 6 of the basic law, we make new demands on people about national archives. But I think the government should go back to the material and technical base of our Ukrainian archives, and then we'll have order.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u118	Vladimir Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u119	Vladimir Bondarenko, Timoshenko Yuli Block. Everyone knows the phrase that the manuscripts don't burn. I don't think it's entirely appropriate to the real state of affairs that we have today. They're burning, I'm afraid. Sometimes it's for political reasons. I remember the time of the car. We've read dozens and hundreds of very interesting documents. Today, this study has ceased with political motives. There are other personal motives. Someone there when he was young, had several criminal cases when he was young, and then it turns out that they had fallen into the water. There are economic motives, such as those related to privatization processes and so forth. So it's very important that the archives are intact to guarantee the preservation of the materials. I'd like to say another type of archive that we're less talking about is audio-photo-video-archives. Sadly, they are now subject to such destruction of purely natural, physical factors that we cannot even think about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u120	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u121	The thing is, I write twice, I don't write down all the time, and I get 1 minute. What are we talking about? Today the average length of storage of media on magnetic records is 20-25 years. There is a huge audio archive, such as authentic singing, Ukrainian baroque, romantic music, which will simply fail and our descendants will not hear it or see it. So I'm going to support this bill, but I'm going to make changes to it so that there's a state program to save audio, photos, videos that's just being destroyed because of their physical inability to keep a lasting one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I am grateful that we have had such an interest in discussing the problem. It goes beyond the proposed bill. And it would obviously have to be supported. I am asking Vladimir Alexandrovich of Jaroslav Suhogo's proposal here, but perhaps not to go to committee hearings, but to hold parliamentary hearings on this issue. Because we have traditionally drooled the same questions, there is no way out, and this problem, where the whole layer of history, culture and spirituality is kept by our people, is forgotten. And this layer is supported by the efforts of the movers, the people who work in the archives. And what's more, we need to look closely at the proposals the government is making here. Well, in particular, I can't understand such a thesis -- it's forbidden to remove from the National Archives Foundation documents based on the confidentiality or confidentiality of the information contained in them, from political or ideological considerations, as well as any documents created before 1946. And after 1946, what can be deleted? And there were a lot of documents there for ideological reasons, but this is our story, we just need to know it when we talk about a documentary base. Or of the documents that have been formed since 1990, this is already the acquisition of the State. And this interval, it's coming from us. Obviously, if the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports acceptance as a basis, we need to work seriously with the representatives of the archdiocese institutions, with the Academy of Sciences in preparation for the second reading. And it's funny that there's a theory here that there's no need for money. This is exactly where the money is needed and why it's a small amount if we want to keep our identity. So, dear colleagues, once again, I would like to stress that the committee is offering to accept as a basis. The main scientific and expert office thinks the document needs substantial work. But to move, we must clearly accept it as a basis. A proposal for adoption is put to the vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on National Archives and Archives. [[on the Expertise on the Value of Documents]] [[Registration number 8755]] Please vote. [[12:04:43]] For 261 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a recess in 12 hours, 35 minutes, 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u123	We are considering a draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the field of intellectual property. [[Registration number 7526]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:35:38]] For-153 Supported. First Deputy Minister of Education, Science, Youth, and Sports, Sulima Evgen Mikolaiovich, reports. Prepare for the Davimucci Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u124	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual issues in the field of intellectual property. [[No. 7526]] The problem facing the draft law is that producers of disks and laser reading systems are obliged to provide two mandatory copies to a specially authorized licensing authority. At the same time, two samples of each disc are taken from government intellectual property inspectors in order to carry out tasks to enforce the requirements of law in the area of production of disks for laser reading systems. This duplication of functions of the central executive authorities creates only additional administrative obstacles to the activities of economic operators. The appropriateness of adopting this draft law is due to the need to systematize and organize the function of implementing national intellectual property policies within the competence of one central executive body, as well as to reduce administrative pressure on operators whose activities relate to the production of disks for laser reading systems. The whole adoption of the draft law is in line with section IX of the 2011 National Plan of Action for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme "Affordable Society, a Competitive Economy, an Effective State", approved by the Presidential Decree "On the National Plan of Action 2011 for the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme" and contributes to the establishment of a regime to maximize business promotion by reducing State intervention in the economy and reducing administrative barriers to its development. Please consider these arguments and support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u125	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the settlement of individual intellectual property issues and considered it relevant in terms of systematization and organization of functions for the implementation of state intellectual property policy in one central executive body. [[Registration number 7526]] [[from 30.12.2010]] The project amends the laws of Ukraine on the mandatory copy of documents and on the specificities of national regulation of the activities of the operators involved in production, export, import of disks for laser reading systems. It is proposed to replace a specially authorized licensing authority with a central executive authority in the area of intellectual property. This central organ, you know, was created last year. Thus, the provision of mandatory disk copies for laser reading systems with recording information will allow the central executive authority in intellectual property to control copyright issues when releasing such disks. At the same time, there is a need to finalize the bill. In particular, we consider it inappropriate to give the producers of disks to the central executive authority in the area of intellectual ownership of disks without recording information. This is also a matter of focus for the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The main scientific and expert office also proposes that the law be amended to specify the name of the law, since the law is not about intellectual property, but about providing mandatory copies of disks for laser-reading systems that record information on them. The committee therefore proposes to adopt a bill on amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u127	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u128	amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of individual issues in the area of intellectual property, taking into account the comments made and proposals made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u129	Please sign up for the performance. Grivkovsky does not insist. Who's next? Yavorovsky Volodymyr Aleksandrovich Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u130	Honorable Voters and Honorable Fellows! It would seem like it's purely technical. An organizational function is performed by this amendment to this law on intellectual property. That is, if it had to be registered in a licensee earlier today, it should be done by a government body that is engaged in intellectual property, Ukraine. That's very true, and I think it's very convincing. But behind this law is just a colossal layer of huge problems. Please go to any supermarket there is today. Please check out the discs: both the film and the audio and the videos. You won't find much Ukrainian. Absolutely. I was literally looking for an hour the other day to find either a Ukrainian disc, either with a song or with a video that would be in Ukrainian. As a result, we should likely take a broader view of the problem. And there's room for this bill to work on. You know, here I've reported from this rostrum that we have almost two years of tax evasion, contrary to the law, by our orders, a bribe will be imposed on foreign books. What's going on with these disks today? But they're being transported in whole wagons, millions of trucks are being transported, they're covering virtually all of Ukraine, and first of all, of course, the Russian Federation. Here our government is gathering, let's say, today and now they want to raise money from prostitutes to keep this pathetic budget that they've adopted, and they're losing millions, billions as a result of corruption and customs, and not just among customs. As a result, of course, the amendment must be voted on. But I'm talking to my beautiful colleague Davimuk: this bill needs to be worked hard, it needs to be amended for import duties, for others, to protect our Ukrainian national market somehow, because there's not only audio and video media, there's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u131	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u132	There is also art literature. You just have to put the order in there, and first of all through the law. Let's vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u133	Chaplain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u134	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, well, representatives of the MP's Reform Group for the Future, certainly for systematizing this issue. We are responsible for the responsibility that comes after him, and we are in charge of control. But in adopting the decision on the fate of this bill, we suggest that we consider the fact that the bill was registered at a time when the Ukrainian State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship was eliminated, before which the issue had already been raised. But I remind you that Presidential Decree 1168-200111 of 21 December 2011 has already established the National Service of Ukraine for Regulatory Policy and Enterprise Development, which will essentially carry out the functions mentioned above to the Committee, and therefore transfer the authority from the storage of copies of these declared disks to the Ministry of Education and Science, in our view, is failing. What's more, the subject of this law is not just the preservation of intellectual property, it's simply the transfer of a copy of any disc with any information or lack of information. In view of this, the parliamentary group Reforms for the Future does not consider it appropriate to support this bill and suggests that it be sent for further consideration of the comments we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u135	Please, one minute, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u136	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. In our view, it is only those producers who record information that is subject to copyright and/or adjacent rights while producing disks that require the central authority of executive authority in the area of intellectual ownership of disks with the information written on them. So in the first paragraph of article 4 of the law, we would suggest, after the words "and" add the words: "if he simultaneously with the production of disks makes a record of information on them, which is a mandatory object of copyright and/or adjacent rights." With that in mind, we can accept it, so we suggest we take it as a base and then add these comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u137	Question completed. I'm proposing the adoption of a draft law amending some of Ukraine's laws on the settlement of individual issues in the field of intellectual property. [[Registration number 7526]] Please vote. [[12:46:31]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. We are considering a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service, registration number 9333. [[on the preparation of reserve officers]] There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:47:03]] For 221 Offer supported. First Deputy Defence Minister Možarovsky Vladimir Mikolayovich is invited to the report. Get ready for the head of the Grycenk Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! It is well known that the preparation of Ukrainian citizens by the reserve officers programme is regulated by article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. Today, there are certain restrictions on the involvement of students in this training, since in accordance with article 11, part 8, of the Law, a list of higher educational institutions whose students can undergo military training is determined and thus limited to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill, which is now proposed for your attention, provides for the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to authorize the identification of only a list of higher education institutions on the basis of which military training is provided under the reserve officers' programme. This will allow students of all the higher education institutions of Ukraine to be able to attend the third and fourth levels of accreditation with a day-to-day form of learning on the basis of the higher education institutions defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the implementation of the territorial principle of stockpiling training and better selection of students for training under the reserve officers program. The implementation of the State Budget Additional Expenses Act does not need to be implemented. So I'm asking the people's deputies to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Anatoly Stepanovich Grizzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee has considered this bill, unanimously supported it and recommends that the Supreme Council support it, if there is no objection, immediately and generally as a law. It was during the discussion of a warning that many people understand, that the training of reserve officers is largely distorted from a motivational point of view, and many students follow the reserve officers program, not because they want to become reserve officers, but because they don't want to go through term services. That's the problem. And so on the Defence Minister's Committee, he assured that the introduction of these changes into the law would not be accompanied by an increase in numbers, i.e. an order from the State to prepare reserve officers and thereby a deterioration in the professional level of those taking part in the service. So once again, the conclusion of the committee: the request to support as a basis, and if there is agreement of the hall as a whole. It was a unanimous decision of our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? We won't. Although, as far as I'm concerned, I don't know what the point is. And now the law in force allows you to do what you ask. It doesn't expand anything, so you can, and so you can. But, you want, let's vote. Dear colleagues, it may indeed be the Ministry's view that it improves or expands the possibilities, although the current states that the Cabinet of Ministers defines, and in what is proposed, the Cabinet of Ministers defines. But if he's asking the Ministry of Defense, let's support the law as a whole, because there's nothing to move him to the second reading. I am voting on the proposal for the adoption of the Act on the introduction to article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. [[on the preparation of reserve officers]] [[Registration number 9333]] Please vote. [[12:51:25]] For 282 Thank you. The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine to improve the legal procedures for the provision of sanitary and epidemiological welfare for the population. [[Registration number 9378]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:52:03]] For 221 Offer supported. Reported by Health Minister Anishchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich. Prepare Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The purpose of the bill is to introduce provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemic Welfare to the requirements of article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on Free System of Economic Activities. The bill proposes to amend articles 12, 23,24,25,35 of the law in order to improve the procedure for the granting of documents of a permissive nature, to ensure the transparency of their issuance, and to maintain the equality of the rights of operators according to European standards. A comprehensive list of documents is established for receiving, reshaping, cancelling, as well as grounds for refusing to draw the conclusion of State sanepidemiological expertise; permission to work with radioactive substances and other sources of ionizing radiation; free operation of non-ionizing radiation sources; and permission to work with biological agents of the first and fourth categories of pathogens. This list is also supplemented by certificates of State registration of a dangerous factor and the issue of the relevant certificate. Furthermore, considering that a comprehensive list of public health and epidemiology objects is defined in article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitary and Epidemiological Welfare, and in article 1 it is proposed to exclude the definition of "object of state health and epidemiological expertise" in order to avoid discrepancies in the treatment of the lists of such objects. The law was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on October 26, 2011. Please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u143	Thank you. Aunt Dmitryvna Bahechev, head of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The draft Law 9378, which was submitted by the Cabinet on 30 November 2011, amending certain Ukrainian laws on the improvement of permit procedures in the area of sanitation, epidemiological well-being, has been drafted with a view to introducing certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Sanitation and Epidemic Welfare in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Business Authorisation System, which was adopted in 2005. The absence of specific lines and conditions for the issuance or refusal of permits by the authorities of sanitary and epidemiological surveillance has created conditions for abuse in this area. Article 4 of the Law on the Business Authorisation System provides that a list of permit documents whose authorities issue or issue such documents free of charge, the date of issue, or the refusal of authorization for an activity shall be laid down exclusively by law. As well as the grounds for refusal. The proposed bill provides for a period of 30 to 60 days for the issuance of five types of permits of five types of permits, which the Minister has already listed. The bill also clearly provides for the free issuance of sanitary permit documents for their duplicates. The adoption of such rules would certainly contribute to the eradication of corruption in public authorities and would significantly facilitate the implementation of business activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u146	Thank you. The Chief Research and Expert Office proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Budget Committee supports the adoption. The Health Committee also requests that the first reading be supported as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u147	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Sign up. Please, Gasuk, the Reforms. Next up, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u148	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" Group considers it appropriate to support this bill, as it clearly specifies the procedures and deadlines for issuing documents of a permissive nature by the authorities of state health care and epidemiology, as well as the grounds for refusing such documents. The bill introduces rules on the issuance of permits and their duplicates on a free basis. For example, the issuing and redesigning of a certificate for the registration of a dangerous factor. To our conviction, the adoption of this bill will help to deregulation of entrepreneurial activities and reduce the grounds for interference by officials and thus contribute to the fight against corruption. It should also be noted that the project envisages improvements in the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature in accordance with European standards. The MP's Reform for the Future is proposing to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u149	Thank you. Ivan Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. It's Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u150	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The honourable colleagues, the adoption of the bill, are aimed at improving the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature, ensuring transparency in the procedure for issuing documents of a permissive nature. And the main thing that I would like to pay attention to is to maintain equality of rights of operators when issuing documents of this nature. Since the adoption of the aforementioned Ukrainian law will help harmonise Ukrainian legislation in the field of regulation of economic activity with European standards, the Party of Regions will speak in favour, and please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u151	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". After him is Zarubinski, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u152	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address this bill with the following. He'll be accepted, he won't be accepted, the population won't feel that much. It feels more the results of the experiment. So, Mr. Secretary, we'd like to hear some information from you, at least as fast as the experiments in the Donetsk region, where the treatments are being released and destroyed, in the Vinnitsk region, in other areas where the so-called experiment is being spread, to which you say it's very good, and now everyone sees it as just a violation of the brutal Constitution, which does not foresee a reduction in the institutions that treat people. In this project, I think the main thing is common sense. Why? The expertise is, it's provided for in article 12 of the State Sanitary Epidemiology Expertise. What does she study? The subject of expertise is not available. At least you're suggesting we rule it out now. Therefore, honourable members of the committee, Your Honor, Mrs. Bachelor! I understand that there are some details in this bill that might be nice. But the first change that's written down here is a change to article 1 of the Law on the Health Care of the Epidemiological Welfare of the Population, it shouldn't be taken into account. This is about defining the subject of state-owned health-epidemiological expertise as any activity, technology, products and raw materials, drafts of normative documents, implementation, functions that may be harmful to human health, as well as active objects and valid normative documents, in cases where their harmful impact is established in the functioning process, and when the deadline for the establishment of a public health-epidemiological expertise is completed. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u153	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u154	I'm done. Thus, honourable national deputies, this part of article 1 of the law must be abandoned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u155	Yes, Zarubinsky, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u156	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. And there's one sure thing about this bill. In my view, the drafters of the bill, the legislators of the legislative initiative, are seeking to establish a comprehensive list of reasons for refusing to issue, reshaping, and revoking documents of a permissive nature. This is very important. This is actually the framework that restricts the possibility of clout on the part of officials, it's very important. And here's what I'd like to point out, which is obviously worth changing. By the way, that's what the Main Committee is stressing. The Explanatory Note states that article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Safety and Quality of Foods is being supplemented by a new standard that regulates the issue of the term of an operating permit. The conclusion of the Main Committee states that this is not being established, that is, the term of operation is not regulated. At least.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u158	Thank you. Although the Explanatory Note does. This is obviously a technical malfunction, and so the second reading requires that what is in the explanatory note be implemented in the text of the bill itself. But you can vote on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u159	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the improvement of permit procedures in the area of health and epidemiological welfare of the population. [[Registration number 9378]] Please vote. [[13:03:15]] For 245 Thank you. A decision has been made. We are considering the draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[on calculations]] [[Registration number 9364]] There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:03:49]] For 226 Offer supported. Makuha Vladimir Alexiyovich, Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, reports. Get Romanyuk ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The main purpose of the adoption of the law is to ban current accounts with a special regime for the use of guaranteed suppliers, which will prevent the diversion of funds from consumers for natural gas for other purposes and for the timely conduct of natural gas calculations. It should be noted that the same norm is contained in the current laws of Ukraine: the Electricity Act, which deals with the establishment of calculations in the wholesale electricity market, and the Ukrainian Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Fuel-Energy Enterprises. The basic principle behind the formulation of this law is that in the total amount of funds that come into account with a special use regime is part of the cost of natural gas, part of transport services, parts of services, distribution and supply. Thus, the cost of various parts of the company — gas owners, gas transport companies, and gas companies — is accumulated by a special mode of use. Thus, in the event that a call is made against any obligation of a gas-supply undertaking, this applies to the budget or other creditors, this actually means that the gas-supplied undertaking will be secured by the owner of the gas and gas-supply undertaking. A special use account is a transit account. And for the distribution of funds on it, according to the terms of the distribution approved by the NCRE, these funds cannot be directed at purposes other than those foreseen by the distribution of funds. Transactions in these accounts cannot be suspended. Only after the distribution of funds and the recalculation of funds into the accounts of enterprises in the appropriate part of them can they be subject to a call-back. Given the importance of adopting the bill, please support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Mikola Prokopovich Romanyuk, deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u162	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 16 November 2011, the Committee considered a bill amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9364]] The bill is designed to prevent the diversion of funds from consumers for the natural gas used, for other purposes, and a timely company called Naftogaz Ukraine calculates the gas consumed. The bill proposes article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, which provides for the order of accounting for natural gas for all categories of consumers with guaranteed natural gas supply to complement part of the ban on the obligation to the budget or other creditors of natural gas market entities. The main scientific and expert management concluded that the implementation of this legislative initiative could have a positive impact on the state of accounting for natural gas. In addition, similar positions are applied to the calculation of electricity. The Chief Executive proposes that the bill be accepted as a basis. The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market to be adopted on the first reading as a basis. The committee proposes to support the decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u163	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u164	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. High-level colleagues, the adoption of this law will contribute to the fulfilment of the obligations of the State to the territorial communities and the population living in the observation zones, to the provision of socio-economic compensation provided for in the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, and will create a clear and reliable legal mechanism for the implementation of socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in observation areas of objects designed to deal with radioactive waste. Based on the above, and taking into account the positive speeches of the committee and the respective administrations, the Party of Regions will be the basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u165	Thank you. Taras Chernobyl, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u166	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Regarding this bill, which we are currently considering, because the previous speaker reported, he expressed his position on another bill, the next. It's about this. Our parliamentary group looked at it the same way on the expert board, and we concluded that in the circumstances that exist today: in the circumstances of the crisis of payments, in the circumstances of the failure to comply with financial and budgetary obligations, we really need to adopt the bill. The thing is, very often, the managers of the respective units pay for any purpose, very often to wash the funds open, knowing that the gas component is going to cover either at the expense of the state or by the write-off method, or so forth. Let's think about how many times we've had bills in the Supreme Council for the cancellation of similar debts. That is, the whole state, the whole nation, the Ukraine's budget in the end, or the local government's budgets are making payments, they're making money, they're spending money on taking down the damage caused by the disgruntled leaders. And we know that gas is a product that, in its main mass, is the absolute majority we buy for currency, primarily in Russia. To address this problem, this law provides for the inability to use these funds for other purposes, including cheating, because very often such methods have been used through judicial mechanisms, knowing especially the purity of our, the purity of our judicial system. [[in quotes]] That's why we're going to support this bill, but it's only going to work normally if financial wires are monitored in the same way by controlling organizations. And it would be good to use it in other ways, including electricity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u167	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal: the adoption of the draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market. [[Registration number 9364]] Please vote. [[13:11:43]] For 261 Thank you. Decision taken. Please, the microphone, Gregory Kaletnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u168	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your word. As head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations on an agreement today at the Conciliation Council of Deputies on the need for a thorough drafting of the Ukraine’s Market Act and taking into account the requirements of part four of article 9 and part one of article 49 of the Supreme Council Rules, I request permission. Please allow the Committee on Agriculture and Land Relations to hold meetings of the Committee at the same time as the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A request for support. Request for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, there is such an offer. Does no one insist on discussing it? It's a rule that doesn't prohibit it. Article 4 of the Rules states that, according to a procedural decision, and this is further discussed in 49 articles, more faithfully, article 9 of the Rules, part 4 of the Rules, and then in 49 articles, it is repeated that the Supreme Council may give consent by a total of 150 votes to hold a committee or a special committee meeting, even when working in parallel with the work in the session room. So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Please be supportive. [[13:13:34]] For 238. Decision taken. And I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity that we should go to the next one just as legally clean as the committee did. Clearly, they were helped in this regard by colleagues from the regulatory committee to work in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. But I really wish we didn't have suspicions about each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u170	No, we're not in any hurry. Let the committee just work. We are considering a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on settlement of matters of congregation management for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. [[Registration number 9409]] There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:14:39]] For 226 Thank you. First Deputy Finance Minister Anatoly Ivanovich Merkowski will report. Please. Get Romanyuk ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You have been introduced by the government to amend some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of matters relating to the administration of the assembly for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. This bill was drafted as a result of a review by the Constitutional Court of an appropriate submission concerning the unconstitutional position of the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, which delegated the right to determine the order of administration of the assembly, rates, mechanisms and deadlines to the government. Therefore, the Cabinet of Ministers has prepared an appropriate bill to settle this issue at the level of the law. The wording itself, the form of the law is designed to establish the order of the congregation by means of the presentation of article 12 prime. 1 The Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, in a new edition, where questions relating to the rates and payment order of the designated assembly will be settled at the level of the Supreme Council. The adoption of this act will enable a clear and reliable mechanism to implement socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in observation areas for radioactive waste management. Ukraine's State Budget Act 2012 envisions such arrivals to a special fund of 152.8 million dollars. And so the adoption of this law will give us the opportunity to really secure such revenue. So we suggest that we support him in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u172	Thank you. Discuss. Yeah, thanks, Anatoly Ivanovich. Please, Romanuk Mikola Prokopovich of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 7 December 2011, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the settlement of matters relating to the management of the assembly for socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the observation zone of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. During its consideration of the issue, the committee pointed to the current relevance and importance of improving the provision mechanism provided for by the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security, the right of the population of the territories where nuclear facilities are placed to socio-economically offset the risk of these nuclear facilities. The bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposes a legislative solution to the question of how to manage the assembly for socio-economic compensation for the risk of population living in the area of observation, conducted by articles 12/1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on 20 May 2010. [[Registration number 9409]] The Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 9409]] Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Shall we vote? Caplienne and Carmazin insist. Nobody insists anymore? Then sign up. Please, Caplienne, get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u175	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, you know, after this bill, we've been discussing the issue quite so violently at the expert board meeting. Why? Of course, the responsibility of the territorial communities living in the territory of the alienation zone or the observation zone must be fulfilled. And the law is, in principle, quite right. We only noticed a matter of purely technical nature. Why, when we adopted the Tax Code, we did not foresee these congregations. We all know that they're not that seasonal, they're going to be today, and they're going to be next year, and in 5-10 years, nothing's going to change. In view of this, we certainly find it appropriate to propose a mandatory amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code. Because since this law has been drafted, everything will have to be adopted annually in the Ukrainian State Budget for the current year. As far as we're concerned, it's wrong. We believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading and that the second reading can be finalized. Although article 116 of the Rules will prohibit us from amending the Tax Code. And it seems to me whether we think that the authors of the legislative initiative will have to register a separate law for the introduction of the Tax Code. Therefore, the MP's Reform Group for the Future only supports this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u176	And you're right about the future that you're going to have to make a separate law. Alexy Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u177	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I want to support this bill. Because the adoption of this law will contribute to the fulfilment of the obligations of the State to the territorial communities and populations living in the observation zones, to the provision of socio-economic compensation provided for by the Ukrainian Nuclear Energy and Radiation Security Act, and will create a clear and reliable legal mechanism for the implementation of socio-economic risk compensation for the population living in the areas of monitoring of radioactive waste. On the basis of the above, I propose to support this bill and to adopt it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u178	Yes, please, Zarubinsky. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u179	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the experience of high - risk objects and not only in Ukraine, but perhaps recently not so much in Ukraine, confirms that the drafting of the bill is absolutely correct. I mean, really, it's about the need to compensate for the risk of the population. And since these include nuclear facilities, nuclear installations, and uranium mining and processing, all understand the dangers of areas where they are being extracted. The wording is correct. And the fact that the subject of the legislative initiative provides for a congregation of those operators, of those owners, of those enterprises that not only engage in mining, such as uranium or nuclear installations, but who are ordering these high - risk objects for the Ukrainian population to pay a certain tax, a certain congregation. For if, do not give God, trouble occurs, then it will be revealed that all are gathered together in peace on a thread. They collect public organizations, charities, individuals, and so on, and the state, including enough powerful states, such as Japan, are in a situation where there is no accumulated amount of money to really help those who have suffered disasters from accidents on such hazardous businesses. So it is good that the subject of the legislative initiative proposed such a bill. The People's Party faction will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u180	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you. Please tell me, what are we looking at? Are we considering what changes to two laws or are we considering increasing the price of electricity? And I'm telling you, we're talking about increasing the price of electricity. And I'm explaining to you that if you put in a new tax now, increasing it much in an unforeseeable way, you're doing an unfair thing. The same unrighteous thing that they are doing on earth right now. And the reason is so interesting that he admitted the Constitutional Court in 2010, right, in May, even then the Constitutional Court had the privilege of being called that, and now it's already called another. Yeah, well, that goddess now has 67 million to fund this year. Mr. Merkowski, please take it from 67 million, make an offer, for 18 judges you give 67 million funding. At least 50 million is too much, at least. Cancel it. I'm not saying you can find money from a helicopter range near the Supreme Council, from the Mujalatka site, even though there's an area near Zara. Take the money off of Belbek's funding, which nobody needs, and there's a billion dollars, and you'll have plenty. Yeah, well, we only have to make changes to the Tax Code, because it's the one that sets up all the public and public taxes. Applying changes as you suggest is completely unconstitutional. Because of this, since there is no Constitutional Court, there is a goddess who has such a name, I take the liberty of saying that this law is unconstitutional and for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u182	Yuri Anatolyevich, do not call the constitutional authorities in non-parliamentary terms. You have no right to do that because you are a national MP. Question completed. I am voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine concerning the settlement of the issue of the assembly's socio-economic compensation for the risk of the population living in the area of observation. [[Registration number 9409]] Please vote. [[13:26:22]] For 260 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the organization of administrative services. [[Registration number 8671]] There's an offer to consider a reduced procedure, please support. [[13:26:54]] For 222 Offer supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Ivan Ivanovna Jemelyanov. Prepare Tolstenka from the Committee on Legal Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u183	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to regulate the provision of administrative services. The drafting of the bill is called for for a number of reasons. First, foresight at the legislative level, not at the level of an act of the Cabinet of Ministers, for the granting of certain administrative services by the authorities of the state to our citizens. And secondly, the establishment of a legal basis on the basis of the law for the payment of the services indicated, which are now established by the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And thirdly, it's bringing laws into line with the Constitution of Ukraine to ensure that the President's powers of competence are exercised with regard to the distribution of competence between the central executive authorities. This is about the implementation of article 106, paragraph 15, of the Constitution. These changes relate to the distribution of powers between the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the State Registration Service. For this purpose, amendments are proposed to a number of laws, such as the Notaryate Act, the Charity and Charity Act, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry Act, the Local Self-Government Act and the Information Agency. These changes include the provision of administrative services for the provision of State registration certificates, such as the information agency as the subject of information activities, the statutes of the territorial communities, charities, creative associations, chambers of commerce and industry, the issue of the right to take up notarial activities, and so on. The implementation of this project will not affect the spending and income of the state budget. At the same time, I would like to draw your attention, honourable national deputies, that the approach proposed by this project is entirely consistent with the approach to the recently adopted draft Law in the first reading on administrative services, which determines that only the law should determine the types of administrative services that the public authorities have the right to grant to our citizens. And the second. Only the law has to determine which.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u184	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u185	What services are provided on a paid basis. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u186	Thank you. Please, from the Committee of Vladimir Leonidovich Tolstenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u187	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting on 4 October 2011 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Organizing Administrative Services. [[Registration number 8671]] The bill is aimed at setting up separate administrative services at the legislative level, which are assigned to the powers of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the State Registration Service of Ukraine and the structural units of the regional bodies of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which implement the mandate of the National Registration Service of Ukraine and their payment. In its conclusion, the Committee on Rules of Procedure and MPs and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council noted that, according to article 90, part seven, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, each bill should have a position on the order in which it becomes effective, which is not contained in the draft law. In conclusion, the Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the adoption of the draft law will have an impact on the budgetary indicators, increasing the coming of the State budget. If the law is enacted, it can take effect according to legislation. The Committee on Foreign Affairs concluded that it had no comment on paragraph 10 of the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concluded on 14 September 2011 that it was appropriate to return the bill to the subject of the right of the legislative initiative to work. On the basis of the Committee’s presentation, it decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the organization of the issue of the provision of administrative services, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. But what I would like to add is that, at the time of the committee's decision and the conclusion, it was pointed out that the issue of administrative services was not regulated. But this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u188	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u189	The Supreme Council in the first reading of the bill, the Presidential Bill on Administrative Services, and I think that we can adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u190	Yes, thank you. If you are willing to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Yes, please, Taras Cranville. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Our MP group was studying the bill. Well, we come to the conclusion that voting for him really needs to be accepted in the first reading, because it requires further grinding, refinements. Finally, we need to get to the point that we are also required by constitutional rules, that such things should be regulated by laws, that we should limit the field of activity of regulations etc., etc. Another point that's holding us back in this law somewhere, well, it's not going to be the basis for not voting for it, but we have a question. Shouldn't we synchronize the introduction of this bill with the Presidential Bill on Administrative Services so that we don't have a question: is there any difference, is there no difference, is there a normal law, is there going to be a co-existence, or is there going to be a re-emergence of the veto after the individual paragraphs of this law? Plus, it also raises the question whether it was worth doing this kind of bill when in every sector there are actually similar situations, similar to those of the legislative arrangement. It may not be too big a problem, but it would be good to have some of it polished to the second reading, so we suggest that we vote only on the first reading. We approve of the idea, but still, when such serious sign initiatives, which come out of the constitutional regulation of the legislative process, are made very well done. And when they go along with the basic law and the Law on Amendments to Other Laws, they get synchronized somehow. It would be best if this law were to go as part of a presidential and legislative initiative, then it would be a complete document, there would be no doubt. But on the first reading, we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u192	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. Behind him is Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u193	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'm going to start by saying that the faction of the Ukrainian Company is not going to support this bill, and I'm going to give you a few arguments. I would like to draw everyone's attention that because of the so-called administrative services, we very often legalize a fairly profitable business that budgetary organizations create through the various commercial structures in which they form. An example. I can do a whole series. Specify. Let's see the point of what. It's that our people pay twice. For the first time, they pay taxes for the maintenance of public authorities. We paid. Then they follow the provision of these services, to the same government authorities, and three of them are skinned. Let's look at the whole range of government executives and structures that are made. You can't let that happen. And that goes in the background. First of all, wages don't go up. The social package and benefits are all cut. But only a person went to the authorities, first to the entrance -- go pay for the help, for something else and more. It's just people being mugged. You can't let that happen. And you can't do that in the first place. The payment of administrative services was introduced in such an illegal way as to be thought. And now they want to put up a pretty solid base and keep beating our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u194	Yuri Hanustzak, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen! Let's see, really, we have everything that's not done, everything that's done is done to take the extra money from the citizen, no extras, no extras. In fact, huge sums are being paid for the removal of the right of gravity. The vast majority of these funds go to the royalty of those organizations that software holds that are registered in offshore companies in general. Now we're proposing that the salary for such administrative services should be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers, so we're actually legalizing the business of foreign structures. I understand that if we're already forcing people to pay for certain services, the size of these services should be set here in this room. And the cost of this service has to be given to us by the Cabinet of Ministers, in order to see what comes in, why it costs so much, because people are still asking us, not the Cabinet of Ministers, people are blaming us for all of this. After all, if we're already responsible for everything that's going on here in this country, give us the opportunity, in that case, to influence this process, not to outsource to the Cabinet of Ministers. I propose not to consider this bill until the question that has been discussed is resolved in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u196	Question completed. You can't because it's a short-term procedure. But in view of what the woman is asking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw your attention to a few moments. What the bill suggests is that it offers to make a transparent system of providing administrative services that are provided by the justice authorities, so that it does not make legal regulations legal, but only by law, which services can provide justice to citizens. And to avoid creating such conditions, what the distinguished national deputy Gordijenko said, what budgetary institutions then invent and set up their own salaries, and then impose administrative services on our citizens is the first. And secondly, we're saying that only a law has to be established, which services can only be provided on a paid basis, only a law and no legal law, just for the sake of transparency and for the sake of understanding our citizens, that they can receive money from the state and that the state has to give them free of charge. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u198	I am voting on the proposal: to adopt a bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws on the organization of administrative services. [[Registration number 8671]] [[13:40:03]] For 232 Decision taken. Although I am absolutely, colleagues, solidarity with those who spoke and correctly said that two laws on one issue was too much. So if we can, let the committee see if there's no violation of 116 articles, it's worth the presidential law that we passed in the first reading on administrative services, and the law of the Cabinet of Ministers, and more specifically the Ministry of Justice, which we adopted today, to put into one law, and that would be absolutely right for people to make it easier to use this law. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to simplify the state registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. Registration number 9372. There's an offer: consider the simplified procedure. [[13:41:15]] For 224 Supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Prepare a European committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! For your consideration, there is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to simplify the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. What does this bill propose? In particular, it is possible to submit documents for the state registration of rights both in paper and in electronic form. Introducing the granting of withdrawals from the State Register of Real Estate Rights to both State Registers and Notaries, the possibility of obtaining an extract from the State Register of Real Estate Rights to persons who have property rights to someone else’s immovable property, and information on the availability of mortgages and the burden of immovable property rights. Well, also the release of natural and legal persons from the payment of government duties in the conduct of a state registration of rights that arose and registered before 1 January 2012. But with regard to this date, I would like to make some comments, taking into account what was necessary at the time of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Real Estate Rights Act, of course, the second reading of this date would be worth clarifying. With regard to the responsibility of citizens, of course they should be relieved of this responsibility, since it is this bill that amends the State Customs Decree on the establishment of customs for the registration of real estate rights. In addition, our citizens receive a simplified system as a result of this bill when they make agreements for the alienation of immovable property. Right away, it is possible for an electronic notary to transfer information to the relevant government registrars to register the right to real estate. Thank you, distinguished national MPs, for your attention and please support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u200	Thank you. Deputy Head of Economic Policy Committee Yuri Mikolayovich Voropeyev On his birthday, he came to work, which is commendable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u201	Dear colleagues, distinguished presiding officer! I would like to draw your attention to this law for a number of reasons more carefully than we usually do. For a number of reasons, I'll talk about them below. First, the Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill on 6 December 2011 and decided to support it only naturally on first reading. However, I would like to remind you that in December, after that, you and I have before you here before the Supreme Council on the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to postpone the entry into force of the Personal Rights Registration Act, which is being amended by this bill. And then we took a decision, which was issued by a decree, which delayed the entry into force of the Law on Registration of Personal Rights for one year, until 1 January 2013. Second, a working group is being set up to propose a new bill before 1 April to resolve the relationship between BTI bodies, local self-government bodies and newly established structures under the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, which should be responsible for the registration of personal rights. In that regard, it would be better if we did not consider the law now but moved its consideration until the working group had developed a new concept, a new law, before 1 April. But given that we have begun to consider it, I would recommend to the Supreme Council if you agreed to postpone, not postpone, but send the bill to read again. To enable the working group, with the participation of scientists, representatives of local authorities, self-government, the Ministry of Justice, including the drafting of laws, the subject itself and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u202	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u203	In the bill itself, there are good positive things that make it easier to register personal rights. But there are also very dangerous trends, dangerous things spoken of by the Minister of Justice, and so on. The Minister of Justice is permitted to register documents that citizens will send electronically to the Ministry of Justice or to the office. It's a very dangerous thing to do, which will lead to our citizens, our pensioners, first of all, being deprived of their homes. This can't be accepted in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u204	Shall we discuss it? Please sign up. Chernobyl Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u205	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! We've considered the faction of the bill. He's not very clear. The previous speaker actually said that he had problems. I'm going to stop right away, though, at the top of the line, which confirms that we should not completely reject this legislative initiative. The thing is, BTI's cancellation has shown that Ukraine is not yet ready to work at all without a system of registration, a state registration of real estate rights. And in this regard, it is necessary to produce, urgently, a mechanism to solve these problems in some way. This law is designed to really solve those problems. The other thing is that the work that is in it raises serious doubts. It has already been said that there are risks. Those risks, I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to take it down to the second reading. So our MPs are ready to vote in the first reading for this bill. But if it's sent for pre-processing or re-reading, it's also an entirely appropriate option. But we don't have the right to completely reject this initiative in this situation either, because we have to replace BTI with something. Chaos, which is growing in this direction, and the abuses that occur there can be far more unsafe than the problems that the BTI Service itself has created. So, no matter what, we have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u206	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction. After him, Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u207	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. The cost of registration is extremely high. For a year there has been a huge struggle in the session hall for this bill, not for this bill, but for a set of these bills that relate to the registration of real estate rights. We understand that all Ukrainian citizens will be like bees to bring income to one particular hive and to the structure that is being built. And you can never agree with that. I'm not going to talk about a lot of questions, but let's see, Inna Ivanovna. We don't have an electronic register yet, and no one's created it yet, and we're already going to be doing a real estate transformation through the Internet, through all of these electronic things. In an age when there's a redistribution of huge property, I can imagine where that's going to lead. Today we also intend to consider Bill 2060 on our schedule to give local self-government authorities their own powers. And the Committee on State Building, local self-government, is addressing everyone and standing in a position, including in front of a working group, that we really need to divide matters. The issue of registration of rights, let the structures of the Ministry of Justice deal with. But in the matter of calculation and technical inventory, let the authorities of local self-government do it anyway. This should be their exclusive authority. Because local self - government agencies operate and all aspects are related to these objects. So we need to think very seriously when we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u208	Please, you're a pain in the ass. Behind him is Dry, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, we see a very interesting situation like this. The decision, which by definition is an attack on local self-government, i.e. the destruction of BTI, after which it looks like it's already been adopted -- and that's true, it's accompanied by more or less good ideas in this bill, they seem to confirm that it's the right thing to do. I think it's the concentration of power, it's the centralization of governance, which in the end still ends with the collapse of this system. Because abuse occurs when there is no adequate feedback when there is no control. As soon as we give Minus all the rights to register and destroy the BTI, there is no control. The decision of the normal control and control system only goes smoothly if BTI is doing, as Gordijenko said, accounting, actually keeping this register, and Minjust is in charge of the depositary, that is, controlling the register that has already been created. In this case, the system works. Why? Because the one who is in charge cannot be abused because he is controlled by the one who holds the depository and the one who holds the depository cannot be abused because he cannot make a decision of an operational nature. If this system is adopted, then you can already consider the bill that we have, because the ideas that we have about electronic accounting and so on, they're not actually very bad. But from the beginning, let's make the right decision, i.e. the decision to sort out the process of accounting and control, the decision to sort out the control system and the control system. It has to be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u210	Jaroslav Suhi, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u211	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I propose to do the right thing and the revolution -- this bill to reject today and to calm down at the end of our people and the employees of the BTI, and to ban the Ministry of Justice from commenting on the fact that in the first quarter everything will come back, we'll come back and break everything. You. Have any of the government officials ever been in basement number three, number four? Did you see in the streets that you made this bill before the new year? The whole of Ukraine is still in line, and you've provoked it. I'm pointing out to the government that he's deliberately sabotaging, ignoring the President's orders and remarks. The president made it clear, "At first, premeditation, and then reform, either in education, or in health, or in the system of registering property rights." You can't do that. It's an approach that only brings people into a state of irritation. And before that, it's a hard life. This bill, it doesn't need any first, third, sixteenth again, just to be rejected today. And in a year, please prepare normal conditions for us to work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u212	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify the state registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. [[Registration number 9372]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:54:10]] For the 17th. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, you and I have taken the right decision before New Year's Eve, I think, signed by the President, that we have postponed for one year the law that has been passed. So, really, here are the right colleagues who need to prepare a material base first this year, including a legislative basis that needs to be introduced into an already in force law that has been terminated. I don't see a big problem here, especially as we voted to postpone the law, we voted on a decision that told the committee profiled to create a special task force to regulate all the issues needed to meet these needs. And there is no doubt that there should be representatives of the Ministry of Justice in this working group, and more specifically the special service that is designed to realize these rights. We are considering the draft Order amending article 3.4 of the Regulations concerning the Assistant Consultant of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on work experience]] [[Registration number 9343]] Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. [[13:55:51]] For 227 Supported. First Deputy Minister of Social Policy Vasil Ivanovich Nadraga will report. Get ready, MacKeenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u213	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! It's literally two of these. A month ago, you passed the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the borderline age of government, diplomatic service, local self-government. So today all civil servants and local self-governance workers are working up to 65 years of age, either female or male, but without any right to stay in the service. The only category in our society left behind 60 years for men and 55 years for women are assistant consultants to the national MPs because they are regulated by a decree of the Supreme Council. And the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish this rule in this decree, i.e. that the assistant advisors of the National Deputies as well as all other civil servants and local self-government workers retire at 65 years of age on general terms, as are all others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u214	Thank you. Please, the head of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council, Mr. MacKeenko Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u215	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! By order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on October 26, 2011, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending article 3, paragraph 4, on the Assistant Adviser of the Ukrainian People's Deputy, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, was previously discussed at the meeting of the Committee on 7 December 2011. The committee decided to recommend a decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the Committee’s observations. The committee agreed with the author that there was an objective need to bring the rules on the borderline age of the presence of assistants in the public service to the provisions of the State Service Act. The Committee's comments were that if part three of article 3 was deleted, paragraph 4 would not have been able to continue the public service as it also excluded the order of continuation of the service, which was intended for assistant consultants only in the position. Taking into account the amendments adopted on 9 December 2011 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Service Act on the raising of the service age to 65 years, which is extended to consulting assistants serving on the State Service and the ability to work for qualified workers without the need to continue serving until the age set. We recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a draft decision on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-10-m0.u216	Dear colleagues, do you understand? There is a position adopted by the Supreme Council, and there is a law higher than that, so we need to bring it into line with the law in force. I am voting on the amendment of Article 3.4 of the Regulations on Assistant Consultant of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[Registration number 9343]] Please vote. [[13:59:45]] For 272 Decision taken. It's been decided. [[B in m in s a l in]] On demand, on your unanimity demand, I'm calling a recess. And I declare the meeting first, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Break until 4:00.
