ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! Please, the National People's Deputies prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, we'll register. [[10:02:10]] 392 national deputies are registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, you know, yesterday there was an agreement that this morning there would be a meeting of the Conciliation Council, with the participation of representatives of the respective ministries and departments, where the situation would be considered, for which two factions were taking a break yesterday, and asked to hold such a meeting. That's why this meeting is going on right now. As a result, you will be informed. And we'll be working in the usual mode for now. Today is the birthday of Ukrainian national deputies, Andros Sergey Alexanderovich, who was 50 years old. [[Applause]] And Alexia Vasilovich Baburin, who's a little older. [[Applause]] Let me inform you about the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary meetings on January 10, 2012. Everything we discussed yesterday was 28 issues of the agenda. As a result of their consideration, one law and two decrees were passed. 13 bills were adopted as a basis and 13 bills were rejected. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Wednesday, we have 30 minutes to make speeches by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. I'd like a colleague to sign up for the performance. Please, Mankovsky, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Jaroslav Kendzior. Muff? Orestes Mutz, please. He's got Jaroslav Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u2	Orestes Mutz, Ternopilska. The Ukrainians, for the second time in the history of our independence, celebrated one of the largest religious festivals in the country -- Christmas Christ along with the President of Ukraine. With a special ascension, Christians not only accepted Galicina, but also the words of the Head of State during the Christmas Mass in the Pocavian Holy Laurea that this festival gives us all hope and faith in the future, as well as his wish for our State of Peace, Peace and God's grace. After Victor Janukovic took the lead in the country, in the West Ukraine, conflicts on religious ground completely ceased in the past when a brother with fists and sticks fought for temples. In this, my countrymen see the great merit of our President and his team, because the Church-Religion situation, the state of interfaith relations, depends largely on the position of state and power. Galicians, too, do not want to be viewed as mere workers in foreign lands. Last year a record number of Ukrainian visa liberalisation agreements were concluded with other countries. However, the number of people moving abroad from Western areas has not increased but has declined. My countrymen want to feel European in their own state, and they hope for the success of the socio-economic reforms that have been initiated here. In addition, according to the head of state, the continuation of reform policies is the only real way to improve the lives of the Ukrainian people and the way that Ukraine can lead to the number of leading European states. And when the President in the Christian temple together with the laymen raises his prayers to God for the happy fate of his people and state, it protects people, demonstrates the unity of power and people. On behalf of the Galicians, I express my sincere gratitude to the Head of State for having participated in the second time in the worship of the Pocavian laurel, which is in Ternopilska, as well as for his sincere greetings. For my countrymen, this confirms that Viktor Janukovic is the President of all Ukraine and is building a strong developed country. Thank you. () [[B in m in s a l in]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u3	Jaroslav Kenzior has the floor. Get ready for Lisova.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u4	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine!".. Christ was born! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to support the initiative of the newspaper's "Day" columnist group here today from the Supreme Council's rostrum, which proposes 2012 as a conditional reference to the year "Sandormoch List." What does that mean? This is going to be a year away from the 75th anniversary of the Sandormochu tragedy, where a large group of 165 members of the Ukrainian intelligence, of a thousand 111 shot by a Cadebist, a checker of Matthew, was shot to think of the whole great tragedy of Ukraine at the time of being part of the Soviet Union. I had to go to Sandormokh and visit those places of destruction, the shootings of both Miki Kulish and Zerova and Podmogilna and Lesi Kurbass and several members of the Kruschelnicki family. And only in Karelia in the 1930s were there more than 120 camps for the destruction of intelligence, including Ukrainian. Tomorrow, January 12 is 40 years old from the time of the other Chequestian pogroms, as it were in the past century, when the result of the small Khrushtov retreat, and the first Kaedebist pogroms took place in 1965, a large group of Ukrainian intelligence was again exiled into Mordovian camps in 1972. Again, the best of the best died there: both Stus, and Marchenko, and Litwin, and Soroka, and many others. Why do I remember and believe that this initiative must be supported? Because all the problems of today's Ukraine, the honourable colleagues, are problems, as a result of the total extermination of Ukrainians in the 1930s, the 40s, the 50s, because all intelligence was destroyed. And today, in the 20th year of independence, we have not yet passed the destalinization process, the decommunization of Ukraine, when in the 20th year, Stalin's monument in Zaporozhye was restored, when Parliament passed the Red Flag Act, which destroyed millions of Ukrainians, that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u5	Have a seat, please. You also refer to yourself as intelligence, and you're still alive. The foxes, please, the faction of the Party of Regions. Who? It's Christmas Eve. Let's get Litwin ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The President of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, in his annual Address to the Supreme Council, stated: “The national membership of Ukrainian citizens must be formed, first and foremost, on the basis of common citizenship, the declaration of civil liberties, the building of a consolidated democracy, the creation of conditions for the full and harmonious development of cultures of national minorities and indigenous peoples”. He went on to say: “Our community, our identity, is formed on the basis of citizenship, unity and cultural diversity, broad dialogue.” However, the application of effective democratic mechanisms to the consolidation of all ethnic, linguistic and cultural elements of the Ukrainian community is a prerequisite for the successful development of Ukraine as a European State. Regrettably, however, even the dialogue that has not taken place today in Parliament shows that we are in captivity, both by the State and by policies, to capture the outdated myths of the past century. At the same time, if the authoritarian approach to ethnic policy was considered correct in the days of Yashchenka, the definition of public policies in this area must be abandoned today. We must understand today that the division in which national linguistic minorities are perceived as being foreign to the Ukrainian nation is unacceptable in a democratic society and poses civil threats to Ukraine. Today, we must understand that Ukraine's multinational ethnos, which includes more than 130 indigenous ethnicities in polyculture Ukraine, were created 20 years ago by all its fellow citizens, an approach aimed at violent assimilation, was explosive. We must make sure that we respect each other, hear each other, and understand each other. The introduction of authoritarian methods on the principle that we must avenge someone for something, you did not stand here, you "fifth column" is a sign of bad tone, stupid taste, it's not a political sign, it's a sign of a citizen who can't get out of his hamurian pants yet. We today need to recognize the principles of multiculturalism, cultural mosaics, where each community has the right to preserve its cultural ethnic identity and the unity of society is ensured by a civil consensus on the political and legal basis. This is a major strategy for State action in the field of ethnonational policy. In this section, the term “Ukrainian nation” should be defined as a political association of all Ukrainian citizens who may have different ethnic origins or mother tongues, but share a common vision of the democratic future of our State and advocate unity. That is what we see in the future of our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u7	Litwinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Suslov. Where's Litvinov? Please, Stoyan. Please come in, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u8	Dear fellow national MPs! [[B in m in s a l in]] Respectable compatriots! The theme of my speech is "Social Government Policy 2012." After reviewing the 2012 budget, I came to the conclusion that this is the budget most socially oriented over the last 10 years. This is also acknowledged by our opponents, and I will give a few facts to support my conclusion. The first conclusion. Minimum wage. For the first time in years of independence, the minimum wage in 2012 will be 100 percent equivalent to the minimum wage for a working person, and it will be $1,134 in December 2012. Second argument. Minimum pension. The minimum pension will be reviewed four times this year, and by December 2012 it will be 884 bracelets. For example, I recall that the minimum pension of the government of Timoshenko in October 2009, the last year of the government, was 498 dollars, i.e. in two years, the pension of our government would increase by 400 dollars. The government was able to communicate with the Chernobylites. As a result of the signing of the memorandum, I want to draw your attention to the fact that from January 1st, the size of the Chernobyl disaster will increase by two and a half times: from 1st thousand 815 dollars to 4,000 129 dollars. That's a big promotion. They're going to be promoted and pensions and children with disabilities and all that. I will also recall that the government has consistently fulfilled its obligations to mothers at the birth of a child. The name of the figure: the first child this year will pay 26 thousand 790 dollars -- that's 6,000 700 dollars more; the second child will pay 53 thousand 580 dollars -- that's 12,000 plus; and the third child will pay 24,800 plus. So we can see that, despite the fact that 2011 was a year of overcoming the economic crisis, overcoming the social crisis, the government is consistently fulfilling its commitments, step by step. Is there a problem? Surely there are, their Party of Regions sees. And I want to draw our government's attention to the problems that need to be addressed. The first problem is that you have to immediately recalculate the living minimum after six months, by June of the month, and accordingly all the social parameters will increase by 25-30 percent. I think that the government should also pay attention to the issue of paying the children of war: there is a need for a substantial increase in payment. I think we need to increase people's savings a lot. So I think that the implementation of the six-year budget will allow for a significant increase in all social parameters in July.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u9	Eugene Suslov, "BUT is the Fatherland" faction. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u10	Please give it to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u11	Mikola Tomenko, next is Vladimir Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Fatherland faction, in particular, and the parliamentary opposition in general, wanted to draw attention to the three principles of legislation that, fortunately, under public pressure and opposition passed over from this parliamentary week. But the nature of these bills seems, in my opinion, irresponsible to the authorities and the parliamentary majority. It's about trying to turn over the gas road and Ukraine's economic independence, which the authorities now consider to be something that Ukraine doesn't need. When I hear about how two years ago today's authorities have been talking about what a cold war between Ukraine and Russia and it will turn it into a great friendship, I feel that this cold war, if it had happened, today has turned into a hot war. The leaders of the two countries are hugging, but they are unable to resolve any questions. So I want to remind you that exactly five years ago, when President Viktor Yushchenko, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic, National Deputys Yulia Timoshenko, Alexander Turchinov passed a bill on the prohibition of the privatization of the merger, the merger, the reorganization of the gas pipeline. And here, there was a serious discussion in the session room. This serious discussion has led to 430 people's deputies voting in favour of banning any manipulation based on Ukraine's economic independence. If you pick up the transcript, you'll see that Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Kluev swore never to give up the gas highway here. One member of the Party of the Regions said in general a genius thing that I liked: "The government of Yanukovich is not going to give up the gas transport system for the simple reason that after that, everyone will really have to rest on the side of the world policy." So I wanted to remind the Party of Regions, if you don't want to rest with the President on the side of peace policy, don't give up our national economic interests and don't talk about pipe and metal. The same story, friends, with a land question, here began a conversation that the opposition said almost outsiders were lobbying. We lobby for Ukrainian citizens, where you want $300, as the State Land Agency has written, will buy per hectare. Therefore, the so-called land reform is another evil that we will not allow. The third evil that has been delayed is a reform of higher education. The Minister of Education has already thought that all students or those who speak against him are drunkards who walk on the Supreme Council. I think that if the President and Prime Minister were to have dignity, they would have made such a minister apologize to the students who defended their rights yesterday and the minister called them drunkards. In short, my friends, I want you to do everything you can to avoid the sad joke that I read recently that government reform could lead to Sevastopol and GTS giving back to the Russian brotherly people, the brotherly land.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u13	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u14	I appeal to the authorities and most of them so that the joke I read on the Internet doesn't work. Let's do it together so that the authorities don't joke. That if the authorities were to implement reforms, GTS and land would be given to the brotherly Russian, the land would be given to the brotherly Chinese, the Arab, and Ukraine’s native country would have higher prices, tariffs, and taxes. Let us protect the Ukrainian people, not the fraternal nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u15	The word is given by Vladimir Leschenko, a faction of Communists. Baranov will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u16	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Montenegro Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Communists assured their voters that they would constantly control the fulfillment of the preelection promises by the bourgeois authorities. We do it all the time. One of the most resonant issues that Ukraine's citizens were lured to their side by candidates for the 2010 presidential elections in Ukraine was and is the return of their undervalued savings to the fraudulent investors. During a meeting with the heads of regional social organizations of fraudulent investors, which took place at the end of December 2009, the leader of the Party of Regions, then a candidate for the President of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, stressed the possibilities and necessity for the return of savings to Ukrainian citizens. Addressing the audience, he said, "For me, this is one of the most important questions. I know that today, first of all, returns are needed by the poor. They have suffered the most and are still suffering from the failure to return their deposits. So for me, as a human, this is the most important thing, as for the future president, is the principle. I think that a nation that doesn't repay people's debts doesn't treat people very well. It is the duty of the State to fulfil its obligations. This is my principle position, and I want you to hear it from me and know that I'm also going to take this issue in principle. I will definitely do that and I will close that question." On December 28, 2010, a conference was held in Kiev to protect the rights of Ukrainian investors. Mikola Azarov was invited to the conference. He agreed with the return program offered by the public organization. It's been two years. But the authorities have done absolutely nothing about it. Our voters in Montenegro, Kharkiv and other areas of Ukraine are indignant. The Ukrainian Company’s faction suggested that at least one billion dollars be earmarked for savings in the 2012 State Budget. Neither the bourgeois government of Azarov nor the representatives of the bourgeoisies in Parliament supported this proposal. Therefore, the faction of communists requires the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine to mention their pre-election promises and start concrete practical actions with the return of savings to our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u17	Valerius Baranov, faction of the People's Party. Prepare the Chapel.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, voters! Just recently, we have completed the budget process, and I am sure that we need to draw conclusions from the experiences and challenges that prevent us from successfully carrying out the tasks that our constituents are facing. It is important to find the real causes of our problems and to address them, not to deal with investigations, which has already become our national comfort. It is worth noting here that the main problem of all generations of our power, as well as its opposition, is the drowsy populism of society's deception of lust, injury and an urgent expectation of a free miracle. My experience shows that all proposed bills can be divided into two parts. The first is current laws that can change governance, support and stimulate the economy, develop and improve people's lives. Often, they are not popular, but they give the expected result to society. The second is pure populism bills that demonstrate either personal illiteracy or a way of fighting political power through the deception of a trusting part of the population. The fact that I have to study in the committee as alternative draft laws, in particular those relating to the budget, by 99 per cent is a lie to society or an attempt to try more than we have, has been and will be in the future. I understand that I will not be able to call such authors to health, especially before the next parliamentary elections, but to observe the word of error, to waste time on dissemination, revelation, consideration of frank nonsense is unacceptable and unfortunate for precious time. I am also talking about this because this legal vanity and attempt to deceive the undergraduate is the main obstacle to the development of Ukraine. I have come to the conclusion that the Government needs to explain patiently and persistently to society the situation we are in. People need to tell the truth, but it worked out, and it's important to say that we're going to do professionally in order to get the result that everyone can feel. We do not yet have strategic planning and reform systems, there are no priorities and there is no system to explain the need for such actions. This situation is convenient for any opposition, as it creates the conditions for distorting the essence of reforms, discrediting them, confusing them and nullifying any effort. It is in the light of what I am saying that all the reforms in post-Soviet countries that have come out of a situation like this that I have had to study. Now, conclusions and proposals from the budget process. First. The money requested by the Ministry is neither available nor available; the funds allocated are used very ineffectively and mainly for food. And third. No Ministry has made any proposals to change the situation. This is a very worrying situation, and I wish to say that if we do not realize that the first reform that we must undertake in the country is an administrative and territorial reform and we do not proceed with it, all subsequent actions of the authorities will be ineffective and will not be of any use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u19	Vladimir Kaplienko, please. Behind him is Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Today, the issue of the implementation of biometric passports came up again in Parliament’s agenda. Let me remind you that this is the bill number 8507 that he has. It's called "The Documents That Testify the Person and Confirm Ukrainian Citizenship." But we all remember what is behind this law when millions of Ukrainians have to change their original documents and pay for it. It is not enough that the state budget will lose its balance. In her time, the Reformation for the Future faction asked the President of Ukraine to veto the bill. The President of Ukraine was also contacted by representatives of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church and a large number of public organizations. And the President vetoed the draft law, which stated in white that the bill reads: "has no risk of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens; public awareness of the rights of the person; fundamental grounds for the existence of a democratic rule of law, which is Ukraine; does not increase the security of citizens; will result in an unjustified increase in budgetary expenditure; will affect the budget of every Ukrainian family." It also clearly states that "the low level of innovation proposed by law does not meet the urgent needs of today, is unreasonable and unacceptable." So the question arises: Why does this bill come into the Parliamentary Hall so consistently and persistently on the fifth time? We're moving it away -- it's moving again, we're calling it off -- it's coming out again. Why? Ladies and gentlemen of the lobby, let's go! Ukrainians do not need this law that chooses them. Not enough, I want to tell you that the answer to this question is fairly simple: banal fiscal corruption, which is equal to 60 million dollars of that money that every Ukrainian has to pay to secure this law. 1600 dollars will be spent on this law for every Ukrainian who has reached the age of 17-18 and has to get a passport and documents. For example, in Poland or Slovakia, this is the cost of such documents in order below. They make up 250 euros. Our question is 300 euros. In more developed countries, for example, France or Germany, this is 85-90 euros. Why are they so eager to rob us?Oh, my God! I wanted to remind myself that the Cabinet of Ministers can also get the right to determine exactly what information should be collected from citizens that can be sold or distributed because of the negligence of government officials in Petrovka. That's why we're talking to the Head of the Supreme Council, the deputies, to put a dot on this disgraceful issue. We demand that the abuse of Ukrainians, the Supreme Council, and common sense be stopped. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u21	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u22	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, respectable voters, we are very concerned about the fuss that is taking place around the gas transport system. In any case, under the current authority, any manipulation from the Ukrainian gas transport system will lead to its being alienated, taken from the Ukrainian people and handed over to the Russian Gazprom. Such power, its real motives, and its real purpose. That's the first one. And secondly, a major negative effect for Ukraine is that the next step after the transfer of Russia's gas transport system will be Ukraine's entry into the Customs Union, into the One Economic Space, to the Euro Asia, and to all other structures that are designed only for Moscow to encamp Ukraine, to take away its sovereign economy, and to manage everything that remains to move and bring money to the Ukrainian people. Thirdly, this fuss around the gas transport system is another step by Ukraine from Europe, contrary to the government's assurance that they are so large Euro-Integrators. Because Gazprom does not recognize the Energy Co-operation Treaty, does not recognize the transparency of the gas market, does not recognize free access to resources, does not recognize any things that are recognized and serve the needs of the peoples of free Europe. Thus, after signing the agreement with Gazprom, the final entourage of the Ukrainian economy will begin, which will lead to the loss of Ukraine, including, after all, political sovereignty. I'm not saying anymore that Ukraine is losing huge opportunities to influence the price of Russian gas, to influence tariff policy, to think about developing the Black Sea shelf using a gas transport system, because after such closed secret negotiations in Moscow, this gas transport system in Ukraine will not be at all. And the last. I was deeply surprised by the phrase in the explanatory note to this government law that would essentially give everything to Kabmin, which would pass the system to Russia. The eighth paragraph of the explanatory note says, "The bill of public consultation is not necessary." So in Moscow, they're talking about how to turn in a pipe and they're writing us in an explanatory note that this is their activity that doesn't need public intervention. Of course, because the public has already spoken against it. Three-quarters of an expert corps, first-call MPs, independent experts -- they all say no. The conclusion is that the authorities want to sell the gas transport system and put money in their pockets for nothing. We demand that we act in the interests of the Ukrainian people, not in the interests of the neighboring nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our speeches. Time's up. With regard to the proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, the secretariat requests that the relevant letters of address and commission be prepared so that there is a proper response. Honourable National MPs, two factions, the "BOUT" faction, the "Fatherland", the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" faction, have applied for a recess to hold consultations on agenda issues, but are willing to make a statement. Sergey Mishchenko, the "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Please, Sergey Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u24	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I want to tell you how we had our talks on a question that you know that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko was unconscious a few days ago, she wasn't given medical care. And today we wanted to hear the question, is this really happening? Is the pension system and medical system really doing everything in order for Julia Volodymyrna to receive all the help she needs right now in this situation? So, what did we hear? We had a question that we didn't get an answer to. First. If the penitentiary system says that there was no emergency, medical care was provided in four minutes. We're talking about whether there was a surveillance of this camera and where Julia Volodymyrna is? Yes, there was, this camera is above Julia Volodymyrna's bed. We're saying, please give us a video test, and we'll say exactly, and we'll see the chronology of this recording: 20 minutes, 4 minutes, as they say, was there a condition for 2 hours that was in Julius Volodymyrna? The answer is, "We don't keep these materials." Then why this camera? In order for someone to look into the castle well behind Julius Volodymyrna? How is it not stored? It is already said that they do not want to give us these materials. They know it's a critical situation. They do not want to explain to Julia Volodymyrna herself that she explains what the roommate explains. As many as she had, 20 minutes, she was being approached by doctors and coworkers of the penitentiary system. It's not good, it's saying that methodically, successively, the authorities kill the leader of the opposition. And that's just the first bell. That's why we demand, our faction and the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", that we create a commission of inquiry to explore all the materials. We need to get all the materials so we know not to kill a person. This is the first call before a person can be destroyed. So I urge the entire Supreme Council to vote in favour of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u25	Honourable National MPs, at the Conciliation Council meeting with the chief of the penitentiary system, were informed by representatives of these two central executive authorities about the events associated with Julius Volodymyrý Timoshenko. I would say so, a sharp conversation that will obviously let us know more clearly and feel this problem. At the same time, I advised fellow members of the National MPs, who are medical professionals, not to discuss, but to meet with and discuss the matter with the members of the Ministry of Health. And I think that's going to be an opportunity to provide information, including to your colleagues, and to the factions on this issue. I think that this proposal was supported, in any case by the Ministry of Health, such agreement is there. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry on this matter, please give us a draft of the relevant document, conduct negotiations with factions so that they can provide their people. I will ask the Committee on Rules, MP ethics, when this document is in place, to consider expeditiously when it considers it will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter for consideration: the draft Law on the Moratorium for raising prices and tariffs for residential services. Please, Carmazine's microphone. Cosemyakina's microphone, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u26	Vladimir Mikhailovich, we've just agreed on the Conciliation Council that there is, as always, we're looking at the issues that stand for inclusion in the agenda. We agreed that you would ask these questions, which are at the end of something today, to vote immediately before considering all the bills. Please, if you could do what we agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u27	I was so aware that you had removed the problem because there was no agreement of the Conciliation Council. So I said, if the members of the Conciliation Board don't agree in factions and groups, then I'm going to put to the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a proposal to first consider the issues that relate to inclusion in the agenda, and then I'm going to look at the issues that are already included in the agenda and are prepared for consideration. Why, dear colleagues, and was offered at the Conciliation Council, and, by the way, no one objected to the suggestion that on Wednesday we first consider the issues that are included in the agenda and are prepared for consideration by the committees. The point is, we haven't come to these bills in months, and the MPs are complaining about why they're not being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, please. Dear colleagues, why these questions are not being considered. So it was suggested that we consider those issues that are ready to be considered and then return. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you, for inclusion in the agenda, especially since this is the last plenary week. And from the next session, they're in a bag and I think they'll automatically be included in the agenda. Please! Well, please. But in view of the insistence, I'm going to put to the vote the proposal of the FACT, the Fatherland, to change the chapters, to consider first.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u28	Don't vote then. I'll put it to a vote. Why are you all indignant? I'll put it to the vote first. I will put a proposal to the vote, first to consider the bills that need to be included in the agenda and then to consider the bills that are already included in the agenda and prepared by the committees. I put this motion to the vote and ask for a vote. [[10:43:50]] For-140. The decision is not taken. About what? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! We've just seen the results of this vote again. There was no vote or majority vote just because one of the issues for inclusion in the agenda was the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Project of the Swedish People's Deputy. Dear colleagues! The point is that much has already been said: both international organizations and international European leaders have repeatedly urged us, the Ukrainian Parliament, to do everything possible to bring our legislation to European standards. Unfortunately, today the Supreme Council does not want to do this, most do not want to do it. So, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, our faction made a decision this morning: if this bill is not included in the agenda, we leave this room today in protest and we will not be working on this day. We'll be back in the hall tomorrow, and we'll prepare all the paperwork for the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u30	Dear National Deputies! If we are organized to work, today we will consider a bill that deals with the decriminalization of article 365 for its inclusion in the agenda. On one condition, when we work. And I suggest that we make a decision to work on the issues set out in the Wednesday schedule, and there's no problem. If there is a need to accept this question. The draft Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services for the population is being announced for consideration. The rapporteur is Ukraine’s national deputy, Eugene Soslov. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[10:46:20]] For 233 Decision taken. Please, Eugene Suslov, the reporter. He doesn't want a reporter. I remind you that today all issues of order are formed by opposition. Please, Vladimir Vasilovich Ribak, head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u31	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the Moratorium on raising prices and tariffs for residential services for the population is intended to establish a moratorium on the raising of housing and utility tariffs for the population without setting a deadline for its operation. I want to point out that a moratorium is a delay in certain actions or a temporary suspension of the operation of a specific legal act. I note that the establishment of a moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services for the population does not comply with article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which the enforcement of pricing policies is the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, not the Supreme Council. That's why we've been asking the committee this question, and we've been looking into it, but we haven't made the decision, Vladimir Mikhailovich. The author of the bill was not on the committee, so I'm making an offer to take the decision of the Supreme Council today and to reject this law. Because this is not an authorization from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss this matter? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please sign up. Please sit down, Vladimir Vasilovich. Yes, the names of the people's deputies please be put on the board. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, the issue we are considering is of great importance to all citizens of Ukraine, to our constituents. It is a matter of implementing or not implementing the present Ukrainian law, which regulates the establishment of prices and tariffs. A speaking colleague has just said that this is not our jurisdiction. I remind you, in the 98th year, the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine initiated the adoption of the law on the moratorium on rising prices and tariffs for housing and utility services, given that there were enormous debts on wages and they remained, there were enormous debts on pensions, thank God that they were not yet available today, but unfortunately, the subsidy system is very small and very poor. The Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the communists, and such a bill was adopted. Regrettably, however, in 99th year, the Constitutional Court repealed the Act, arguing that it was not the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we represent the people of Ukraine here, we must live with you and we must think, and we must also take care of the problems that the people of Ukraine are doing. We understand with you that today, local governments are raising prices and tariffs, including that in Kharkiv, this has been done, increasing the consumption of individual services, and this has been done in Kharkiv. We Communists propose to introduce subsidies, subsidies, gas prices through Ukraine's budget to reduce the real cost of services in Kharkiv and across Ukraine. You don't listen to us. Tell me, please, how do you try to help those people who elected you here to Parliament who gave you this mandate to resolve matters in their behalf? On the ground, the majority of local authorities are the Party of the Regions, they are today adopting elevated tariffs; the members of the local councils of the Party of the Regions are taking these decisions. In the Government, most of them are yours, and you make those decisions. What should we do if we do not introduce such a bill in Parliament?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u34	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u35	The Communist faction insists that such a bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u36	Yes, Grivkowski. They're refusing. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine" faction is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u37	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised that the majority acknowledge that there is less and less authority behind the Supreme Council. It is not surprising that we have never discussed the problem twice in the past year, not once in this high rostrum has this problem been discussed, nor has it been devoted to a special session. We have a government that has been and is now the central authority of the executive branch of the housing and utility sector, the entire Ministry, which is the authority of state policy in this area. We are hysterical today in the form of performances by the Ministry, whether it's the economy, whether it's fuel and energy Boyko, or it's the total inability of the foreign policy that Mr. Grishenko is carrying out when we're talking about what the Ukrainian pipe is going to become a breast of metal. At the same time, the northern Russian flow has already stopped twice, and once every four days. Can you imagine for a moment what would be the ice cream and Europe is frozen? And it's all done at a time when people in the media don't prove anything about it, and the "styler" is having talks instead of losing their apartment salaries. They've doubled. This is why the Law on the Moratorium, which only comes out of three articles, establishes that the cessation of the moratorium on higher prices and tariffs for residential services for the population can only be achieved when such conditions are met: the real increase in income is not less than 30 percent of the total debt. It's the right law, it needs to be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u38	Finish up, please. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u39	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I think that's not where we're putting the accents. The previous speaker again shared his credentials. We all have the power -- both the President and the Prime Minister, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Parliament. The main thing that is lacking in power, and especially in Parliament, is responsibility. You'll think about it. We've given the opposition the day to make our own drafts, to look at them in detail, to discuss them, to make decisions. Not enough that they've made any mess that's even impossible to read, so they took it and left the room. There is no one in the room, but no one has the conscience to go into the register and give up the wages for today. Is that a responsible decision when they left the hall? That's irresponsible. That's the worst thing that could happen. Let's move on. The bill is introduced by the author. Submitted by the author and correctly said Vladimir Vasilevich, the author does not even exist on the committee. How can this bill be considered? Is that a responsible decision? That's basic irresponsibility. This should start with increased responsibility. Therefore, I think that, as far as the bill is concerned, I fully agree with Vladimir Vasilevich, head of the committee, who is not to be considered. Vote against and everything. We don't have to go under the authority of other authorities. Take care of yourself. I used to be a disgrace! - It's gone. What responsibility? What kind of discipline? Do you have a conscience? And the salary is paid. At least one person today would say no. I therefore support Vladimir Vasilevich's proposal to vote against this bill. There is the competence of the authorities and there is no need for Parliament to fall outside its competence, there is executive power, it has the right to make a decision in the economic segment concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u40	Gennady Bully, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u41	Thank you. The MP's Reforms for the Future. Gennady Bullying, Santa Claus. In fact, in my view, given what we voted last year in the first reading of a law that actually separates the state and the State's influence on pricing in the communal sphere, I think it would be appropriate for Parliament today to take a step towards meeting people. We remember that at the end of last year, the Budget Code actually provided for the Cabinet of Ministers to appoint the benefits that were provided for by various laws. So I feel like we can't keep "crushing" and we need to take a step to meet people. And such a bill is exactly the same bill that makes this move. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this bill because we understand that a moratorium on residential tariffs is needed today. It could be processed in a second reading if there is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is closed. The main scientific and expert administration considers the adoption of the bill to be inappropriate. The position of the committee has also been brought to your attention. I therefore put to the vote a regulatory rule on the adoption of the draft Law on Moratoriums for raising prices and tariffs for residential services for the population. [[Registration number 9019]] [[10:58:01]] For-52 The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on budgetary streamlining and accountability for the implementation of the State budget is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 9017]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[10:58:34]] For 222 Decision taken. Again, the reporter does not have one. So I ask the head of the Committee of Baranov Valerius Alexiyovich to express the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u43	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! The Committee on Budget Questions at its October 4th meeting considered the bill. It should be noted that the committee in March has already considered this bill, introduced by the Royal, which is similar to the name and content. [[No. 8083]] On March 15, last year, the Supreme Council did not support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda of the eighth session, and the Committee on Budget Affairs recommended that the Supreme Council reject it. The proposal in the bill for the government to submit an annual report on the implementation of the State Budget Act no later than April 1st has become obsolete since it is already regulated by the Budget Code. The bill provides for the release of the Minister of Finance on the basis of the Supreme Council's annual report. This is contrary to article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which members of the Cabinet of Ministers are appointed by the President at the time of the appointment of the Prime Minister and their powers are suspended. I'm not going to hold you back by listing proposals that have either lost their meaning, or they're wrong. All I'm going to say is that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority makes comments to the bill and notes the need to draw conclusions in order to make a balanced decision. The Ministry of Finance does not support this bill. As a result of the consideration of this issue, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision recommending a bill of 9017 to the Supreme Council to reject. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, is there any reflection on this? Well, if anyone insists on talking, please sign up. Put the names of the national deputies on the board. Vadim Koleschenko, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, we have now heard a statement by the representative of the Committee and have once again found that the opposition is only concerned with the issue of social populism. Populism for your loved ones. Even the fact that the drafter of the bill is not available on Wednesday, on a date which, by our agreement, has been set aside solely for the opposition. And the opposition has today formed this day, ignoring its own bills. In fact, the mother treated her child simply as a pasture. And we see, child, Mrs. Queen, today he remains an orphan. For one simple reason, and she did not want to adopt the bill because it was in fact contrary to both the Constitution and the legislation in force. The task of the members of the Timoshenko Block is to be a public concern at all times. Using the media to broadcast people's love for themselves because they're supposed to be interfering with something. I can tell no one is in the way of the opposition. They are now fighting for their seats in a possible future list to join the Supreme Council. However, all their activities consist of the processing of paper, the macularization. And unfortunately, it's not the slightest constructive thing. Therefore, the Committee's proposal to reject the draft law is deliberate, reasoned and objective. Regrettably, most of the bill that is being proposed to us today is of such a nature as pure populism, which does not have the slightest pragmatism or prospect. I believe that this bill must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u46	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u47	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, you have now heard the distinguished Ukrainian people, you have heard how the working majority do not want to report to the government and the responsibility of the government, including the Ministry of Finance, for failing. Within a few months, minus 8 billion gold reserves in dollars, 8 billion were thrown into a pipe. Why? For whom? Do you support the bracelet? You support the American currency. You're showing that you've accepted the budget, but you're being honest. You know that, you've only accepted it for the International Monetary Fund to show them, report to them. Because if they don't give you that money, you'll be naked. I'm asking you, you're saying it's against the Constitution. What Constitution? Let's say that all of these deputies sitting in the hall today were elected in a completely different Constitution and that President Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic was elected in a very different Constitution. You're the one who changed the Constitution to a derelict, stupid Constitutional Court, who made a coup d'état. You're well aware. Without Parliament, a coup d'état was made, although after that Constitution Ukraine lived four years. And now you refer to the Constitution. Now, and now, to keep the Constitutional Court quiet, you've been throwing it at me with the fat, you've been throwing it at me for millions. 67 million per 18 members of the Constitutional Court. Show me how to spend them. Well, tell me, at least how to spend. Well. Gold toilets can only be placed in that Constitutional Court. So the question is absolutely correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u48	Finish up. Finish it, Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u49	I'm done. So it is quite right that a decision on the release of a minister of finance can be made by a higher body - parliament of the state. Then there will be nothing like what happened after the constitutional coup that Odessa's debt today is one and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u50	Thank you, thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. If the question is about strengthening the role of responsibility of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is obvious that the author of the bill should come to the Supreme Council to justify his position. The committee proposes to reject the bill. The main scientific and expert office is making serious remarks to the bill. At the same time, once again, in accordance with the Rules, the first is the proposal to adopt, on the basis of this draft, amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts to optimize the budgetary process and increase the responsibility for the implementation of the State budget. [[Registration number 9017]] Yes, there's a vote coming. [[11:06:27]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending article 116 of the Supreme Council Rules on the preparation of draft laws is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote on this proposal. [[11:06:57]] For 221 Decision taken. Again, I remind you that the bill was tabled by opposition factions, but the reporter did not show up again. Therefore, the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. MacKeenko Volodymyrovich, has the floor for the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u51	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee at its meeting on 16 November this year had previously considered a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules on the preparation of draft laws by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Royal Natalia Jurijovna. [[by number 9070]] In fact, the Committee noted that it could be agreed to amend article 116 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, but only to allow technical amendments to the text of the law or to remove contradictions between the provisions adopted and the text of the Act. At the same time, considering that in the first reading, there is sufficient time and opportunity to get to know the bill, to consider it and to propose its vision to the Main Committee, draft other acts on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine providing scientific expertise, the conclusions of other committees. In addition, the committee believes that the proposed changes are practically interfering with the work of the Main Committee in drafting the bill, the draft of another act for the first reading, and then the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 2, of the First Rule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u52	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, may we vote? We can't. Well, please sign up for the discussion then. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Regions, please. Then there will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u53	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! This is where we're always discussing the question of where we think we're losing billions, millions. Let's consider ourselves. Today, few things have been thrown in, "The Fatherland," all the mess here that is not yet considered here, is not ready to be considered – these are the populist bills for the election, so they left the hall. It's not enough that they're gonna get paid, nobody's gonna give up, so now we're gonna work half the time. And these are tens of thousands of bracelets that will be thrown out. We go into the voter's pocket, take that money and work hard for the basket. And we're talking about billions. We've got to get out of this. Now, with regard to this law. Again, what is this law for, an attempt to amend it? Yes, in order to amend the normal law again, which will conceptually change the law and be amended again by the populist plan, which will twist the law completely, make it a pervert, the law. Again, we will work hard on the day by discussing these laws, which will be amended to the elections. Who's gonna count the money? So it's very sad that we're talking about high things, high materials, and when it comes to self, I mean, first of all, the Fatherland that cares most about the people, it doesn't think of money. At midday, the agenda was filled with unnecessary laws, although today we were able to consider the laws and social and economic laws that were necessary for the country. So they wouldn't let us work, and they left. What's this, state? Is that right? The bill must therefore be rejected in order for us not to work idlely in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u54	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u55	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! What is the subject today? This is about how to increase the efficiency of Parliament's work. Have you analyzed or not what you accept? I analyzed and looked at all the amendments. This is a list of those laws, and I'm showing you, a list of those laws that we passed. Here are my corrections and your reaction to them. I think society will ever be interested in learning what and when you did, including you, Mr. Chechetov, when you waved your hand. Thus, it is 116 articles of the Rules that help to promote what is called parliamentaryism or the work of law. And that's why the very right proposal is now made by the Royal. Although Adam Ivanovich, did we not make a similar offer with you? Introduce, Adam Ivanovich. And this proposal was that, when considering drafts, on second reading, it would be possible to make those proposals and amendments that were necessary to resolve the contradictions between the provisions of the bill and the provisions of valid legislative acts. And today the government, today the President is comfortable with Parliament adopting butterfly laws to make something into the sub-item of change. That's why this article of the 116th Rules is a hindrance to the development of legislation, and we're here to increase the efficiency and efficiency of Parliament's work. Now. Dearly beloved! Didn't the BUT Faction offer you? They said: Let us first vote on the issue of inclusion in the order of the day, as we always do, and this was agreed on by the Conciliation Council. But you refused. And that's why you're giving up the interaction and the dialogue with the opposition, and that's insane, and that's why we're going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u56	Thank you. On the Conciliation Board, there was another arrangement. Anatoly Seminoga, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u57	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues! I would have asked you not to politicize the bill. It is clear that today, when drafting drafts on committees for second reading, 116th article narrows our possibilities: the possibility of a committee, the ability of deputies even to introduce technical rights, if these are to amend certain laws that conflict with the adopted bill. That's why I think that the amendment is, in fact, totally competent, absolutely professional, and the Supreme Council should support this bill, because it will improve the work of the bill, it will improve the work of our committees, and it will allow us to adopt more perfect laws and laws. That's why I'm asking most people to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! The bill is closed. I have a diametric opposite point of view, and when we say that in the drafting of the law, we have to make technical changes and so on, so let me answer you, dear colleagues, with all honesty, what we know. When laws are passed, subjects of the right of legislative initiative need to think with their brains rather than the place in which we sit, and to legislate immediately, not the butterflies. Because we first have an attractive law, and in the process of preparing for the second reading, lobbyist interests continue, which have nothing to do with the legislative base. Therefore, the bill is not worthy of the 116th article, which should make her think that they are making, not butterflies, as our colleague said. And let's work, not invent extra opportunities for ourselves, so that we don't do anything. There is a regulatory proposal for voting: adoption as a basis for the draft law. I'm reminding you, the committee is suggesting that it be rejected. Acceptance as a base, registration number 9070. [[11:16:05]] For the 10th. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Decree on the introduction of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions in the Ukrainian language of education in administrative and territorial units, where such educational institutions constitute less than half of their total number, is being announced. [[Registration number 8131]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Andri Parubai. The Coroner is the secretary of the Committee on Science and Education, Catherine Samuelk. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:16:57]] For 212 Decision taken. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u59	A boy named Andrew. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Ukrainians! I want to let you know that in 2010-2011, due to the optimization of the education system in a number of regions of Ukraine, where educational institutions in the Ukrainian language make up a significant minority of their total number, and the demand for secondary education in Ukrainian is steadily increasing, the process of baseless reduction of schools and classes in Ukrainian language has begun. Statistics show that in Ukraine the number of schools in the Ukrainian language declined by 83 this year, with 83 schools becoming fewer schools in the Ukrainian language. In some areas, as in Crimea, there are only seven schools in the Ukrainian language, in Sevastopol, there is only one school in most parts of Crimea. Listen, in the Donetsk region, only 18.5 percent of children are enrolled in Ukrainian schools, 22 percent in Lugansk, 1.3 percent in Crimea, and 0.3 percent in Sevastopol. And in fact, in those situations where support is needed, we see the authorities systematically conduct policies to destroy and close schools in the Ukrainian language. The hastyness and unwarrantedness of the decisions already made and the preparation of new decisions, ignoring the thinking of parents and representatives of the local community leads to social conflicts, creating unhealthy tensions, and forcing parents to take advantage of the threat of self - combustion if their children’s rights to education continue to be violated in the national language. A group of MPs who are here and who are the authors of the bill, we went to Donetsk, Makiyivka, and we saw despair in the eyes of those parents who had been gathering for hundreds of acts of protest and underscoring, threatening to burn themselves. But this has in most cases not stopped local authorities and authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u60	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u61	The draft decision proposes to establish a five-year moratorium on the closing of educational institutions in the Ukrainian language, where such educational institutions constitute less than half of their total number. Please support you and do not politicize this issue. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u62	Thank you, too. Catherine Semenovna Samojlik, secretary of the Committee on Science and Education Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u63	The author of the bill reported to you, honourable colleagues, on the substance of the law. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education has to note that the introduction of a moratorium by the adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not solve the problem. An example is his decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on this issue, which was adopted in 2009, and that did not prevent you from closing nearly half a million schools in rural areas. Next. This issue is practically settled by article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on general secondary education, paragraph 6. There are other constitutional grounds for the appropriateness of the decision. First, according to article 92, part 1, paragraph 4, of the Basic Law, the order of application of languages is determined exclusively by the laws of Ukraine. Secondly, part one and second of article 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine is established that the national language is the Ukrainian language. At the same time, the Basic Law guarantees free development, use, and protection of Russian, other languages of national minorities. Article 53 of the Ukrainian people guarantees the right to learn in the native language or to teach in the national and municipal educational institutions. Thus, the proposed decision, practically, artificially creating privileges or limitations of a person’s rights by language, is contrary to article 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decided to return to the honourable Andrija Volodymyrovich the decree to be drafted in order to comply with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please support the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u64	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion. Zinovo Shkutak, the faction "Our Ukraine" is the People's Self-Defense, next will be Alla Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are obliged to support this bill. The thing is. And that determination. The fact is, today we have a situation where school completion is incomplete. But we need to understand that in the near future we will have the same situation that we have today in Ukraine with gardens where people are in line for several years in order to have a child in preschool. Let's not let the same thing happen to education. But there is another case. In recent years, really, it's simply an artificial way of eliminating schools. For example, there are schools that tried to close this year in the city of Donetsk. This is a school that teaches about 200 children. It is transferred to a nearby area of the city, where there is no road and no transport. Sadly, even this school was completed by some deputies who are now members of the Supreme Council. But they are either not present in the Supreme Council, or they are not interested in these questions as to what they are doing with their school. And only parents and their children protect their school so that it will not be eliminated. I think that when we make this decision, we will be able to take such a good step.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u66	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction. Gregory Smythech will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u67	She wanted to begin her address: Honourable colleagues from the faction “Our Ukraine”. But I understand that I can't speak to you with the word "respectable." What cynicism must be achieved in order to raise the issue of a moratorium on the closing of schools in Ukrainian language, the subtext being: and with Russian, let them close. Because we all know, colleagues, that, unfortunately, no more than one year has been in place, no one year has been pursuing a policy of so-called optimisation of the education network and health care. And under this optimisation is called mass closure, including schools. And to be honest, you have to say that this process was the most intense when Prime Minister Timoshenko was the one you made the Prime Minister, which was the time that most of the schools were closed. Compared to what was done over the years, after closing up schools in rural areas, this was done during the period of government, so to speak, Yulia Vladimirovna, you do not want to talk about it. Dear colleagues, let us condemn this proposal as a cynical, discriminatory, violation of the Constitution. Because it divides children, let them close with the Russian language and not with the Ukrainian language. This is an absurd approach, absolutely insane, in terms of the psychology of an ordinary cultural, intelligent person, and I condemn such an approach, and such a bill of course we cannot support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u68	Gregory Smythuch, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u69	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm speaking at all, any closure of the school is an extraordinary state of one region or another, of any inhabited area. But there is something else that needs to be said naturally. You know that in the last 20 years, Ukraine's independence has been reduced by almost 10 million people for some reason. In recent years, we have had a democratic situation, a situation where birth was less than mortality. Appropriately, only because financial support has been introduced in recent years when a child is born has somehow stabilized the situation in the last year relative to the increase in the birth of our children. It's a very positive, very effective, so to speak, sign that we can eventually change the demographic situation in Ukraine, but something has to be done. Of course, we have many questions. I'm from Volin, for example, and my district in Volinsky. I can bring you dozens of schools that were still made of wood, wood, and they were still there when Poland occupied this territory, that is, prewar. And of course, these schools often come into such a terrible state, they find that not only can they not learn, they can't even be there temporarily, not to mention that children need to have the right conditions for them to have the full potential for education. And our nation should pay attention to that. In my view, social issues related to the birth of children and their comfortable learning opportunities need to be dealt with radically. And there are other questions about where this school is and how to either transport children or spend money on a small number of children to accumulate them in a specific population. By the way, Vladimir Mikhailovich, me. did not give me the opportunity to raise my point of view regarding our Rules. But I don't understand why sometimes in our Supreme Council we're looking at laws that are just being passed and they're being examined by the Supreme Council on Sundays, in a day, in a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u70	Please finish what you wanted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u71	That's why I, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, passed the law under 9286 of 13.10.2011, which is aimed at building, reconstructing, maintaining special schools that keep our children without parents, boarding schools and so on and so forth. And why does this law not apply to the Supreme Council? I ask you to intervene in this matter and bring it up without a committee, because the committee is blocking this law that is important, social, important to our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u72	Yes, Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u73	Thank you very much, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The MPs of the Reform Group for the Future seemed to be building a free, independent, constituency state of Ukraine, which, as we know, is like any state and has qualities that belong to an independent state -- language, money, independent borders, historical consciousness, national unity, and most of all language. And if we say today that Ukrainian schools in the West or the East are closed only by language, is that unacceptable? Because at least this violates two articles of the Constitution 10 and 11. Not enough, the consolidating function in every state is the language that it does. And that's why every nation wants to preserve that language. And I would like to remind you that in the Russian Federation for today's day of schooling in general schools, it's purely Russian. Therefore, in view of this and in view of the report of our reporter, who is the author of this bill when he referred to the problems of Donba. We will support this bill and urge everyone, let's fight for our country, for our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues, have we finished our discussion? In general, there is a strange situation when we are in the country of Ukraine talking about the problems of Ukrainian language and Ukrainian schooling. Unfortunately, I have to say that we didn't have much to discuss. Just a minute. We were accused, and who closed up more schools? Let us stop this practice of mutual concern and get out of the fact that schools should only be closed where they should be closed. And to talk about what Gregory Smitsch said -- about the quality of our children's education. And we are competing who prefers what language. And unfortunately, that's what's causing the articles of the Constitution to begin to be rewritten. Now, I've reviewed the reference to the articles of the Constitution, and the Constitution has reviewed, and there are no references, and there are no respectable colleagues who talk about them. And there is no such term as "the people of Ukraine," "the Ukrainian people." And I would ask everyone to adopt this term. That is why the design of the decision itself is evidently designed to draw attention to this problem. Although the draft ruling itself, especially in the final part, needs to be cleaned, disciplining the opinion is if the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes it as a basis. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Ordinance on the implementation of a moratorium on the closure of educational institutions with Ukrainian language of education in administrative and territorial units of Ukraine, where such institutions account for less than half of their total number. [[Registration number 8131]] Please vote. [[11:32:10]] For-66 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act is being announced for consideration. [[on the increase in budgetary positions in State higher education institutions]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine Pavlovský Andri Mihajlovich. Correspondent is Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Lutsky Maksim Georgievovich. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:32:54]] For 214 Decision taken. The reporter, again, is missing. In general, we need counseling, strange situations arise, people demand, ask questions, and then they don't come, they don't report. Please, Maxim Georgievicz Lutsky, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u75	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. That's probably how this bill is needed by the author. Oh, right. The draft law amending the Higher Education Act to increase the number of budgetary seats in State higher education institutions, introduced by the Pavlovsky and Sochka People's Deputies, proposes to increase the number of places for students admitted to the first course by public and municipal higher education institutions from 51 per cent to 75 per cent. [[No.9007]] In general, the initiative to increase the number of budget places in public and municipal educational institutions should be recognized as a targeted initiative aimed at developing the provisions of article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine in part two, by which the State must ensure the availability and freeness of higher education, including in state and municipal educational institutions. At the same time, according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the implementation of the bill requires an additional budget funding of over one and a half billion dollars. Instead, the law does not have financial and economic justifications and specific spending proposals that need to be reduced or proportionate to the sources of additional revenue to the state budget to cover the increase in costs. It is not difficult to predict that the increase in the share of the government’s procurement will result in a decrease in the number of people who will be trained in the contractual form of education. Appropriately, there will be a reduction in the amount of own income in educational institutions, and it may result in the creation of debt from wages, utilities, other expenses from the special fund. In addition, there is no exception to the lack of selection of candidates for certain specialties. The absence of an additional number of graduates required to provide admission to education is the basis for a state-level qualification commission to revoke licenses for the preparation of educational levels of certain specialties. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education at its meeting on 2 November 2011 decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine amendments to the Higher Education Act, author Pavlovski, from. - "relief." [[about the increase.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u76	You all have it, don't you? Thank you. Dear colleagues who will be involved in the discussion, please sign up. And put the names of the people's deputies on the board. Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u77	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I'm in favour of this idea of increasing budget positions in higher education institutions. But just mechanically solving the issue from 51 to 75 percent does not solve the problem or even complicate it. Because we know that there's a "reproduction" in Ukraine, you could say, lawyers, economists. People get an education, they can't get jobs, they can't get money. At the same time, there is a lack of other specialists, and the health sector is the same, where it is estimated that up to 20,000 doctors are no longer available. And that's why the practice that we have today, once again, I would like to point out that, with the Deputy Minister of Education present in the room, the Ministry has taken a fairly logical step, by increasing the budget set to those higher education institutions that are located in the pilot regions. The Kyiv National Institute of the Mantis – up to 800, Donetski – up to 500, Dnipropetrovski – 450 and Vinnicki – 400 students. That is to say, by carrying out such reforms when higher education institutions are in one ministry, it is easier to resolve all these issues and work really on demand of the day. And the idea that we need to hear about increasing the number of budget places is really similar, but we do have 100 percent of what we can do, let's say, engineering specialities, construction and so on, where there really is a need to do that today. And this is a question that needs to be addressed more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u78	Thank you, too. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Peter Cibenko is referring the right to speak. Julia Kovalevska will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u79	Vladimir Leschchenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! In Soviet times, when the labor nation cared for each of its citizens, 100 percent of the students were enrolled in government contracts, 50 percent now, and the bourgeois opposition bill, which was in power at the time and did nothing about it, is proposed 75. They offer this, not for the sake of a solution, but for the purpose of pleasing the electorate. The Communists are confident that this issue will be resolved only if the effigy of Ukrainian bourgeoisie is removed from power, and the fullness of power will pass to the working people. This will certainly happen as if one of the oligarchs did not want it. In the days of the new State of Workers, the National Constitution of Ukraine will be adopted, the industry will be restored, the agricultural sector of the economy will work effectively, for every citizen a new job will be created, education, including higher education, will become free, the government order will be for 100 percent of students, every young person will start his job on the way, will get a normal salary, housing and other social guarantees. And all that bourgeois opposition has to offer right now is naked populism. Nevertheless, the Communist faction will support this bill, as it initiates and supports everything that is little for the common people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u80	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Parish region. The next one will be the Soviet.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u81	Please pass the word to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u82	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u83	Alexander Stoyan, doctor of historical sciences, professor. Why did I introduce myself like that? Because he worked for 15 years in the universities of Donetsk and Kiev, and I have the right to assess what is being done now and what is being done next. In recent years, when we started teaching students not for government fees, but for the money that our parents paid for, we didn't see a student in the classroom, we didn't hear from a student good answers to exams, in advance. And we've seen that there's a very different category of students coming in to get a degree and then go into business or something. And believe me, if we're talking about government bonds, we need to talk about government procurement, not just teaching orders, but government distribution, creating jobs for future specialists. Because what's the point? If a student was accepted for a government order and then they say, "Look for a place to work," that's not what you need to do. So, surprisingly, maybe my colleagues from the Party of Regions are backing up the proposal to increase funding for government procurement. We have private vases. There's a lot of them, these knots, they're different, these knots. They have one room and several computers, but they earn huge money by collecting students for their parents ’ wages. Now let's take a look at it. Please tell us if a rural child can learn talentedly at Kyiv National University. No, she can't, because her parents won't be able to pay for her. Can he study in other educational institutions? A government order, an increase in it will allow talented people to be taken away. Moreover, these talented people will go in distribution and work. Not the way they bought a place in a hut, they bought a diploma, and then they don't want to go back to work. So once again, I'm stressing how a person who worked for over 15 years in the universities of Ukraine, I'm stressing, at the University of Kiev, in Donetsk, I'm in charge of teaching specialists, I'm in charge of higher education.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u84	Finish up, please. Radovec, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u85	Please pass the word Curilo Vitali Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u86	Vitali Kurilo?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u87	Chicken, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u88	Please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u89	Vitaly Kurilo, group "Reforms for the Future" What brings together two things, such as higher education and football? At first glance, it was nothing. But there is one thing. Everyone thinks that they can't run the Ukrainian assembly, and everyone thinks they can't reform and make laws about higher education. This debate that is now on fire, a little bit in the hall, is very far from this bill. If someone has read this bill carefully, very carefully and familiar with education, he will understand that he has nothing to do with increasing the number of budget places and government procurement in Ukraine, because the rule of law that the authors want to change – Pavlovski and Sočka – in this law these figures are that no more than 49 per cent of contract students should have bonds than the number of budget students. And that doesn't mean that this increases, if you put a figure in 75, it just reduces the number of contractors, but it doesn't totally increase the number of budget students. There is a standard adopted by the United Nations, which says that the number of students per 10,000 population is measured. Today, in Ukraine, 138 students are studying at the expense of 10,000 people. So the authors would have to increase this standard, let's say, from 138 to 150 students, and then it would be, really, a relief for the parents, for the children. This is an increase in budget funding and budget positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u90	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u91	That's why we think that this law needs to be rejected, and the authors simply remake it and formulate their "mild intentions" in a different way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u92	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u93	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I want to go now because I know that the President is being misinformed about what's going on in the Supreme Council, Victor Viktorovich Yanukovich as a colleague. Victor Viktorovich, please tell Viktor Fedorovich that this proposal, which I quote, reads: "In higher education institutions of state and municipal property, the number of students admitted to the first course of public education should be at least 75 per cent of the total number of students admitted to the first course." I quoted it as suggested in the law. I now quote as stated in the pre-election programme of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic: “At the legislative level, I guarantee an increase in the number of budgetary positions in public higher education institutions to 75 per cent.” I read in Russian for Communists who do not understand Ukrainian because they are not Ukrainian Communists. Because of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u94	Honorable National MPs, discussion of the matter. [[B in m in s a l in]] So these are claims to the author, to Pavlovsky, foreshadow. Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our consideration of this matter. I would ask the authors and all who are interested in this issue to take the materials of the Court of Auditors, which literally came to the Supreme Council yesterday, to verify the activities of the central executive authorities in the implementation of the government order. And it clearly states what no one is saying: that we need to first define the mechanism for the formation of the government order, how many professionals we need, what directions we need, and what the state has to put into perspective. In order to please you, you can write: 110 percent of the government order. And if we need it, I mean the country, we're going to have those professionals who are being released from higher education today. Let me remind you what Vladimir Leschenko was talking about: there were 144 higher education institutions in Ukraine at the time -- and they provided training for all professionals. Today, we have a thousand, if I'm not mistaken, higher education institutions, more than 200 universities, yesterday's vocational schools have called universities and printed footage and said, "Let's increase government procurement." Where to? So this is a problem for the committee and the government to take seriously, not to bear the brunt of what we're saying to butterflies, and then let's change Article 116, we're going to mount something here. It's not a bill, it's a pre-election card, we need to translate it into the language of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on a regulatory proposal, regardless of the committee's decision to reject this bill, on the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act as a basis. Registration number 907. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:28]] For-37 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u95	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u96	Yuri Anatolyovich, well, please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u97	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u98	Please. A draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] Registration number 9008. The rapporteur – again Andrew Pavlovski, co-rapporteur – is the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u99	The committee thus suggests that the issue be dealt with in an expedited manner. Please vote. [[11:49:16]] For 213 Decision taken. Maxim Lutsky will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u100	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I wanted to say to the previous speaker that the government order should be asked by the rectors: Could they have done what the government order was this year? Twenty-six rectors were given reprisals because there are no children physically. Where do you want it increased, a government order? But with regard to Law 9008, the Committee on Science and Education at its meeting on 2 November 2011 reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Education Act. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] The author is Pavelowski. In support of the idea of the author of the legislative initiative on the need to raise the level of social and material welfare of pedagogical and scientific teachers, the committee also expresses the following: the Budget Committee concludes that the bill will have an impact on budget performance, increases budget expenditure, and the implementation of the bill will require additional expenditure from the State Budget and local budgets, with an estimated amount of 11.5 billion dollars per year. However, contrary to the requirements of article 91 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the author has not provided financial and economic justifications for the bill and specific proposals for costs to be reduced and proposals for sources of additional revenue for the budget to cover increased costs. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, taking into account the conclusions of the Ministries of Economic Development and Trade, Finance and Education, Science, Youth and Sports, Social Policy, the joint representative body of the All-U.S. trade and trade unions, proposes to reject the law. The main scientific and expert management of its findings points to a lack of financial and economic justification and makes substantial remarks. The Cabinet of Ministers does not support and considers its acceptance to be inappropriate. The Central Committee of the Trade Unions does not support it either. Therefore, the decision of the committee to return the bill to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for pre-processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u101	Thank you. Yes, please, is there a need to discuss the matter? If you have one, write it down. Yesterday, we discussed a similar question where education, culture, and health workers were involved. And there's this sum, the esteemed colleagues, 11.5 billion, that's the total amount, including the seniors. Gennady Bully, please. Sit down for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u102	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. MP's Reform for the Future, Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayev. The city of Mikolai. The parliamentary group Reforms for the Future considers the legislative initiative to increase the guarantees of social protection for science and teaching workers to be timely and relevant. We are convinced that the bill provides for pedagogical and science-pedagogical workers with benefits of years of assistance to be paid in the size of their official salary when they are given annual leave, that providing them with material assistance to solve socio-economic issues is the minimum that the state today has to provide for the education community. We also support the idea of providing rural teachers, including those now retired, free housing, and heating and lighting. And I would like to emphasize that the MPs' group Reforms for the Future are in favour of this social law, because today it is very, very useful for the education community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u103	Thank you, too. Vladimir Leschenko, Communist faction. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, Communist faction Then the Fedun will perform. He's refusing?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u104	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like, first of all, to draw attention to the fact that we've been talking a lot lately about the need for effective work, including billing. Note the order of the day. There are two bills, two numbers next door. The same author. Same date of registration of the bill. On the same day, I will consider it at the committee meeting. So the point is that, in fact, it would have to be one bill so that we could talk about more productive work. Second thing I'd like to say. The Ukrainian Company's faction fully and consistently supports the substance of the bill, which is today, and the increase in pay for pedagogical work, and the increase in the monthly salary, and the provision of at least three living minimums, as well as the provision of free housing and heating for teachers. So essentially, we absolutely support what's being proposed. But I'd like to talk about something else. Dear colleagues, let's not fool each other. The honourable colleagues who submitted the bill had their own President, their own Prime Minister, their own Minister of Education, the majority of them in the Supreme Council Hall, and were able to accept and resolve the problem in no way. But then they did not, today when they went into opposition, ask the question. Unlike our colleagues who call themselves opposition today, by the way, most of whom are not in the room today, we act quite clearly and consistently, and we vote in favour of these issues always, and absolutely consciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u105	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the bill is closed. Let me remind you that the committee is proposing that the bill be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. It's basically the same opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. At the same time, according to the Rules, the first proposal for adoption is voted on as the basis of the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine. [[on State guarantees for teaching and teaching staff]] [[Registration number 9008]] I'd like to make a statement. [[11:55:55]] For-50 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. Your attention, honourable national MPs, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Education Act. [[on the increase in the number of pedagogical staff pension]] [[Registration number 9009]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:56:29]] For 211 Decision taken. Again, the reporter, Andrew Pavlovsky, is missing. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Maxim Lutsky. Please, Maxim Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u106	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. You know, colleagues, while we're all here working on this very serious bill, the bill's author is in the dining room and she's having lunch. Maybe we'll invite him, though, to listen to his bill. The Committee on Science and Education, at its meeting on 2 November 2011, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the World of Ukraine. [[on the increase in the number of pedagogical staff pension]] [[Registration number 9009]] The author is Pavlovski and Sočka. While sharing the desire of the drafters of the initiative bill, the legislative initiative to improve the pension provision of teaching staff, the following should be noted. In its conclusion, the High Council Committee on Budget Issues notes that the bill has an impact on the budget, i.e. it increases costs. In the event of the adoption of this law by July 15, 2012, it is due to take effect no earlier than January 1, 2013, if not before July 15, 2012 and January 1, 2013. The bill will require additional expenditure from the state budget, an estimated 1.8 billion dollars a year. However, contrary to the requirements of 91 articles of Ukraine on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and 27 articles of the Code of Budget for Ukraine, the authors did not provide financial and economic justifications for the bill and specific proposals on costs that needed to be reduced, proposals for sources of additional revenue for the budget to cover increased costs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Pensioners of Veterans and Disabled Persons makes a number of comments and proposes that the bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill needs to be finalized, pointing out that there is no financial and economic justification. The ministries of finance, social policy, and justice don't support the bill. And as a result of the review, the Committee on Science and Education proposes that the subjects of the legislative initiative be returned to Parliament after consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, what shall we vote on? Please, come on, Yuri Carmazin. Then sign up, please. And let's think about it this way, there's this proposal. It would be possible, ladies and gentlemen, to complete the consideration of these issues and go to work on the committee, and not to announce a recess, because we still have here, I'll tell you, five bills, and then inclusion in the agenda, there are more technical issues. Is there no objection? Then we work all the time. Yes, Peter Cibenko. Is there anyone who will act? Yes, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, please, a faction of Communists. Mikhailo Chechetov will then perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u108	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I would like to point out that the overall level of pensions in Ukraine for today, even after all the promotions that there is today, does not match the employment contribution of Ukrainian citizens in general, no, let's say, the level of civilization. In particular, there is talk of education workers, teachers, and high - school workers. The bill proposes to raise the worker’s pension to 80 percent of the average wage. I think the very idea needs to be supported. More to the point, the faction of the Ukrainian Company, particularly Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, has repeatedly introduced an appropriate bill on this subject. By doing so, they are willing to postpone the period of implementation. To bring completeness into the solution of this problem. But we really need to solve the problem today. Because it's not just the total pension fund that is today, but it's about a thousand 200 dollars, the average salary in Ukraine. And three-quarters of people still get pensions up to a thousand dollars. And what's more, we need to talk about the fact that educated people who provide education to all those who work today, including in public service bodies, deserve to have this problem resolved, as far as they are concerned. So the faction of the Company of Ukraine will certainly support this idea. And not just this bill, but any ideas that will relate to this extremely painful social problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u109	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Next up is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u110	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to divide all the bills that we are considering in the Hall into three groups. The first group is vital bills to ensure the viability of the State, to improve the social standard of life of people, to develop the economy, to strengthen Ukrainian statehood and more. The second is purely empty, purely populist, which, apart from slogans, carry nothing. As a rule, these bills, these bills, the opposition that has left the House of Fathers, are overturning the agenda. But there is the most terrifying third group of bills aimed at undermining the financial sustainability of the State to destroy the financial base of the State. Well, I'd, I'd call them, even a word, just harmful. We know that the $40 billion debt that we can't pay, and let's give a few more billion, we'll take the law at a few billion, we'll increase that debt further. I repeat, that's it. laws that aim to deliberately destroy the financial base of the State. Can these people be referred to as the people's MPs who make such bills? Nope. And, I think, when Vladimir Mikhailovich said, "Where are those MPs from the Fatherland who passed the bill?" I think they're just, they're out of the room, because it was even embarrassing to hear what they wrote. It is a shame to hear what they wrote because they identify themselves as subversives of Ukrainian statehood. They're laying a mine under a financial base. No, they were ashamed to burn, and they left the hall. Therefore, such bills, which belong to the third group, which are aimed at undermining the financial stability of the State, cannot even be passed on to Parliament. Therefore, please do not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u111	Yuri Carmazin, one minute, Yuri Carmazin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". I can see it, I can see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u112	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. I'll start with the last one, with these majority leaders, Mr. Mikhail Chechtov, who says these bills are meant to be undermined. Mr. Mikhailo, I would advise you to look elsewhere for, for example, the National Bank. What is 3 months ago -- 8 billion gold reserves in dollars in dollars in dollars in dollars in dollars in dollars in dollars in dollars? You multiply by 8, you get 64 billion. Where did they go with the 64 billion? They went to support a foreign currency. Well, does it make sense at all? They're just thrown into the air, that's where they went. We need to look for the subversives there, Mr. Chechetov. We need to look for them there. The subversives still need to be found among those who purchased the surplus, the name of Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, who purchased the drilling plant at a price above $150 million. You multiply by 8 and you get exactly what it takes for this bill. And he only needs 1.7 billion dollars a year. It's a penny compared to the expenses we're talking about right now. What, then, did Paul’s fearsome colleague offer? And he actually offered to do what your political power, the honorable majority, promised. She promised you'd compare pension insurance and other provision of teachers and doctors to government officials, all in all. Who said that? Didn't Victor Fedorovich Janukovic say that? And now it says, ". 80 per cent of the salary of a pedagogical worker." Oh, my God! But there's a cop's salary, and we're saying that we're comparing it to a civil servant's level. And you're saying that this is an economic downturn -- no, it's a rescue for the economy, because this money is not going to be exported.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u113	Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u114	The MP's Reforms for the Future. To be honest, when I hear the charges against people's deputies who don't want to vote in favour of education, well, it's very strange. I want to give you an example like this. Now, my parents worked 47 years in education. My dad and mom have a pension a little over 100 bucks. This is because they have given their heart, their mind, for so many years, to children. And their disciples still come to them and thank them for giving them. It's actually a valid bill, and the MP's "Reforms for the Future" will vote for it. And to be honest, if you count this 80 percent, when you work 35-40 years at school, you have to understand that this pension is going to go up 50-150 dollars -- it's not the kind of money that the Supreme Council can argue about today, when we're, frankly, writing off the debts of oligarchs by lying down when we're quietly watching and destroying the Ukrainian economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes that the subject be reinstated from the right of legislative initiative to further his initiative. The main scientific and scientific management holds that opinion. So I would ask you to take this into account when voting. There is a regulatory requirement for adoption on the basis of the draft Act amending the Education Act of Ukraine, I mean to increase the pension provision of teachers. [[Registration number 9009]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:08:25]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. A draft Act amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being announced for consideration. [[on subjects of the law of the legislative initiative concerning the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties]] The rapporteur is the national deputy of Ukraine, Taras Czarnovil. The focal point is the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir MacKeenko. At the same time, I would like to inform you, fellow colleagues, that today's statement has been received from the authors of the bill, namely: Belarus, Greens, Goodman, Logwinenko, this content: "We, co-authors of the bill amending the Supreme Council Rules, recall our authorship and ask that this draft law be withdrawn in response to the need for further political consultations." So now I'm going to put a piece on the vote. But I say, parts of the authors, because there's also Kojar, and Cnerwell, and Alexei's Igor. So I'm voting on the proposal of part of the authors, the names that I've spoken of, the removal from the draft law, the removal from consideration. [[Registration number 9281]] [[12:10:15.]] For -6 The offer is not supported. Now I'm putting to the vote the second sentence, the committee's proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:10:36]] For 227 Decision taken. The reporter is Taras Cnerwell. McKeenko Volodymyr will be the co-reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u116	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! Actually, in fact, the bill itself has little to say. There is a Constitution of Ukraine that defines an exclusive list of the powers of the Supreme Council and defines the powers of the President and the government in the field of international agreements and international activities. There is the Law on Ukraine’s International Contracts, there is the Vienna Convention. There is a last and last edition of the Supreme Council Rules, which was stolen when the Rules were redrafted, and only one article was stolen. When article 202 stipulated that they could also be deputies for the denunciation of treaties, article 89 of the Rules provided for a completely different and unforeseeable right. So there's a real example of just a simple mistake. In this regard, the most opposition committee came to a professional approach, considering the matter in its meeting, and decided to initiate the introduction of such a bill. We supported him on the committee at the time. The first authors were mainly members of the opposition, professionals, once again, professional diplomats, experts in the case. But then there were some very unpleasant events. A person present in this room, who. Well, it's hard for me to hide the obvious signs of paranoid schizophrenicism, what she's always been doing -- honest knocks, Internet statements, etc., accusing her colleagues of the B.U.T. faction, particularly the opposition that they seem to have billions of bills in Cyprus for this bill. There's a cure, I think, or a court order to deal with this person. After that, they achieved their hysterias by withdrawing their signatures. Because of that. I thought they just had a wild, unprofessional, Ham pressing professional knocker on them. That's it. That's it. That's the question of withdrawing signatures. [[Applause]] Now it's about the bill itself. Our committee and its committees are offering to accept it, to return to normal constitutional norms. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, literally seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u117	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u118	For all those who have initiatives and proposals and logic, we see that certain contracts have been denounced, let us use the regulatory and constitutional standard that provides for the Supreme Council to make statements and petitions. Vladimir Yavorowski, a member of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” on one of the contracts, introduced a draft Decision not on denunciation, but on the application or appeal of the Supreme Council. [[I think it's Kharkiv's deal.]] We looked at it on the committee. It's okay, it's okay, it's constitutional. In this case, political positions are replaced by outright populism, and in addition to anything else, by the blunt, blunt knocks of individual villains who have fallen into this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u119	Yeah, well, maybe you'll call it that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, then, dear colleagues, Vladimir MacKeenko, please, head of the committee. the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u120	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! At its meeting on 12 October 2011, the Committee reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs, under number 9281 of 11.10.2011. The bill proposes to amend part one of article 202 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely the deletion of the words "national MPs". That is, the bills on the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaty are submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine only by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which corresponds to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on Ukraine's International Contracts. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a whole. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u121	Shall we vote? Is there no objection? Please sign up. Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u122	Of course, if you look from the perspective of the Constitution, the author of the bill is right in the sense that you can bring this rule into line with the Constitution, which will not allow the national MP to express his point of view in any international relationship. During my activities in the Supreme Council, I have repeatedly advocated a series of agreements that Ukraine has signed, which have ratified in political, public or non-public terms, so to speak, approaches or views, laws, agreements that, in my view, have brought nothing to Ukraine, including security during disarmament, including on Tuzla Island, in territorial waters between Romania and Ukraine, including a visa-free regime in a unilateral order that has harmed and unequaled Ukrainians with other states. How does a Ukrainian differ from a Pole when a Polish man leaves without a visa and a Ukrainian has to pay for a visa and wait in line? And many, many, many questions, which unfortunately, for political or other reasons, were introduced and supported by "Urah! Hooray!"and eventually to Ukraine for it to answer or to Ukraine for it to pay. Thus, taking into account the state of such recent events that have caused great damage to the Ukrainian nation, the Ukrainian people. I'm against that possibility because it gives you in any way, if you have the right, to legislate, even though you talk about it, not just to refer to one or the other view, or to one of the opinions of one or another official. I'm against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u123	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u124	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". Please pass the word to Andrey Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u125	Please, it's Papuya's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u126	The honourable deputies are indeed a discrepancy in a number of bills concerning the denunciation of international agreements. But I'm going to remind you that the authors of the Rules of Procedure Act were the majority, and they actually put in a position to do so. That the MP might be initiating an appropriate bill. However, I am convinced that there is a political debate in the room, not a professional one. Why did this question now arise? And I'll tell you why, because last year I was introduced a bill on the denunciation of the Harkow Agreements, those shameful anti-Ukrainian treaties that were signed by Yanukovic and here, during the animal battles that were fought against. At the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine. This year, I joined Kirilenko in re-imposing the law on the denunciation of the Kharkiv Treaties. The authorities are doing everything they can to ensure that the issue does not even arise in the Supreme Council Hall. I am convinced, and so is the Constitution, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the highest legislative body that defines the principles of the foreign and domestic policy of our country. So, I'm convinced that MPs have the right to make bills, to discuss here in the hall and to make the right decisions, that's how it comes out of the Constitution. Now they want to limit the function of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, they want to limit the right of every deputy, by the way, whether it belongs to the majority or to the opposition, so that only the President alone, the Prime Minister, can decide in which direction the Ukraine can move from the outside. And as we see today, contrary to the will of the people, they are turning Ukraine away from the European path. That is why I propose not to support this decision, and I believe that it should not be adopted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it first limits the rights of the highest legislative body and every deputy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u127	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a law amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. [[on subjects of the law of the legislative initiative concerning the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties]] [[Registration number 9281]] Please vote. [[12:20:06]] For 264 Thank you, the law has been passed. Let's see. The factions? Please: Region Party - 184, "BUT – Fatherland" – 0, "Our Ukraine – 2, Communists – 25, "Reforms" – 21, "The People's Party" – 20, non-fractional – 12. We're looking at a draft decree marking the 80th anniversary of Grigor Tobacco's birth. [[Registration number 8366]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:20:55]] For the 220. Supported. The subject of the legislative initiative and the committee's reporter is Vladimir Yavorowski, but he doesn't want to work today. I'll report it to you. The point is. Right, we're already a little late, although we're a little late for a pretty simple reason, about what we're talking about today, about what we've always been talking about on Wednesday at the request of the opposition, and we've been asking questions about the inclusion in the agenda, and the inclusion in the agenda has been turned into an agitation, it's the right of the people's deputies, and we haven't gotten to the bills. On the Conciliation Council on Tuesday we agreed, let's start with the ready projects, and then we'll include. You can see how this ended today. Thus, December 5, 2011, is 80 years old. And now it's full. I'm saying I'm reading the verdict. And now it's full. And so on. So I think it was very wise for the Conciliation Council to come forward when today, in fact, we started to consider drafts that could not be considered in connection with acquittals. That's the point of determination. It's always clear what to say. But it's too late. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please, Be quiet. Then there's Karpuk, and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Or should I tell you about the figure who sat down in our red writing? Gregory Tobacco is the author of many books, and his works are included in all the crossword books, he is studied in schools, the Laureate of the Shevchenk Prize, a person who left early in life who had absolute hearing of truth, truth, and word for word. It's an incredible feeling of Ukrainian words, even though he starts out as a Russian writer. And his older brother, Gregory Tobacco, who is also the winner of the Shevchenk Prize, the author of the famous novel Veer. It was an extraordinary phenomenon of three human beings who were blood-related: Feder Tobacco, Gregory Tobacco, and Gregory Tobacco. I don't have to count everything they've done. They're quoted, they're read, they're published. Sadly, not in today’s demands, but they will be unforgettable. And so if we just by our determination that they deserve attention, especially Grigore Tobacco, we're going to cause what we're going to celebrate this year. We carried out a series of activities both in the fields and in Poltava, in the homeland where we read Gregory Tobacco. [[and the Society of the Writers, and the Society of Education.]] The disks are ready now. You can still do it. Even within our financial capabilities and abilities can be entrusted, for example, by redesigning his works. If we give the commission to "Durkomvid," it's understood that this is how we can honor it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u129	Vladimir Karpuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u130	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". The adoption of today's decision is yet to bear witness to the not systematic, not productive work of the Supreme Council in honoring the memorial dates and Jubilee. Because there was a pre-commitment, and for 2011, for 2012, for some reason, it was not supported by the majority. And that's why we often forget such glorious names, and Gregory Tobacco really had a huge heart that hurt for Ukraine, which was born on Donbassa, studied in Kharkiv, lived in Ternopol, was often in Western areas. And I remember how great that feeling was, such a great pleasure I felt from his reputation of the Klimko, which was later awarded the Forest of Ukraine. Although the date has passed since December 5, the adoption of this decree is still a tribute to the memory of a prominent Ukrainian writer, and I hope that it will be voted on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u131	Question completed. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole the Order on the 80th anniversary of the birth of Grigor Tobacco. [[Registration number 8366]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:26:20]] For-29 The decision is not taken. The decree is rejected. We're looking at a draft decree marking the 120th anniversary of Vladimir Simyrenko's birth. [[Registration number 9314]] May I vote? I am voting on the proposal to accept as a basis and as a whole the Order on the Celebration of the 120th anniversary of Vladimir Simyrenko's birth. Please be supportive. [[12:26:57]] For 273 Thank you. Decision accepted. We are considering the draft Order for hearing the report of Prime Minister Azarov on 18 October 2011 on the signing of the Free Trade Zone Agreement under the Commonwealth of Independent States. [[Bill 9366 registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:27:38]] For 232 Offer supported. The report is Andrew Parubius. From the committee, Taras Cnerville.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u132	A boy named Andrew. On October 18th, the prime ministers of the SND member states signed the Free Trade Zone Agreement with the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States in St. Petersburg. The agreement was also signed by the Republics: Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Moldova, the Russian Federation, the Republic of Tajikistan and Ukraine. Both the negotiations and the process of signing this international treaty did not take place in an open regime for the Ukrainian public, as did most of the international treaties signed by the President-in-Office and the Prime Minister-in-Office. Almost all the agreements signed in the last year in the Kremlin are signed under the fierce pressure of the Kremlin, under the fierce political pressure that not even the Russian Federation and its leaders are hiding. They put before Ukraine certain conditions that must be met, and unfortunately, the Ukrainian leadership as vassals complies with these requirements. This covenant itself, after its publication, raised many questions, more questions than answers. And the statement by the director of the Russian health service regarding the restrictions on agricultural exports from Ukraine is the best illustration of the effectiveness of the free trade zone between Ukraine and the SND. The signing of the Treaty of Azar on Free Trade Areas within the SND is no secret to anyone. It has become one of the causes of the failure of negotiations with the European Union on the creation of a free trade zone with the EU that has damaged Ukraine's national interests. In this agreement there are so many exceptions that a question is created: Which free trade zone is it? After all, there is a list of items that are being removed from this agreement. In particular, it's gas, oil, petroleum products. And the metal, the metalwork, and the trumpet. Specially important are such products as sugar. And that's why I think the agreement was purely political.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u134	I am convinced that Azarov, as head of government here, from the Supreme Council's rostrum, has to explain the projected economic consequences of signing this agreement. And we and the Ukrainian society need to understand whether that's going to win the Ukrainian people or just a bunch of politicians who are in power today. So I urge you to support my decision. In fact, by voting in the hall, Azarov was forced to report to the deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u135	Taras Blackwall is the first deputy head of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, our committee considered the draft decree at its meeting, and we, by an absolute majority of votes, or even unanimously, came to the conclusion that there is a sense of support for the draft decision. The only thing we're proposing in this case is that we get to the regulatory rules -- the word "report" is to replace it with the term "information." And I think in this situation I'm also afraid that most people won't vote, but it's really illogical. For most people today, it would be very useful to listen to this information. And the Prime Minister could, for example, reassure the representatives of the agricultural sector of Ukraine, including those represented in this Parliament, on the basis that the statement made by the Chief Sanitary Doctor of Russia directly contradicts both the letter and the spirit, for example, the Free Trade Agreement of Ukraine within the framework of the SND, directly contradicts. And this man should be held accountable directly, according to Russian law, and in the same St. Petersburg arbitration, which is set to deal with matters arising out of this agreement. Perhaps it would be helpful to listen, including to most of the questions about restrictions on metal, metal, and pipe. Because this is really a question on which, perhaps when ratified, it would make sense to make warnings and observations on the part of the Ukrainian side. The Russian side often uses this mechanism when ratifying the relevant agreements under the SND. Perhaps the government would advise us what it would be worth for the Ukrainian Parliament to make such warnings and to stand up to a large, rather than small Ukrainian business in this regard. So I think it would be very useful not only for the minority, but not for the members of the Committee in foreign matters, which all information from the government gets in full volume, namely for the representatives of the ruling majority, to listen to information, to make some warnings, some other positions, and then to take them into account when this treaty comes to ratification. So on behalf of the committee, I urge everyone to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u137	Shall we discuss it? Sign up. Yes, please, Paul Silent. He's been followed by Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u138	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, understood that the argument given by Taras Viacheslavovich was correct. And it's perfectly logical for our requirement, for Parliament, to listen to what's going on in Parliament, and what the legislative branch of power actually does is that it's enforceable when some basic principles are formed in the economy, when the budget is formed, and that has a direct relationship to the perspectives of our budgetary policy. And that is why, if we hear what arguments our head of government will give us in favor of one or the other, and we ask our questions, and we make sure that there are no two points, that there are no differences, then Parliament is entitled, not only to the right, but also to the duty. To do that, it's actually a Parliament created with some functions to use control functions just to specify. One is when it's a purely governmental lecture, and the other is when we hear directly from the Prime Minister's mouth, what's happening in this area: what integration processes are waiting for us, what kind of yields or failures that we're getting as a result and what we're losing as a result of the so-called integration processes that are waiting for us. And that's why I support as one of those who belong to a group or a faction of Reforms for the Future, because in our very name of our faction, the definition is "reforms for the future." If this applies to reforms, we will also support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u139	Vladimir Karpuk. Behind him is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u140	Vladimir Karpuk "Our Ukraine". We will undoubtedly support the draft of this decree. And it's quite weighty for a lot of reasons. Already today, in the Supreme Council Hall, we've felt how now we're going to return to Byzantineism in diplomatic relations, when everything goes behind closed doors and Ukraine's interests often seem to be in the interest of Ukraine. Even before Azarov's hearing, but already with the information he was talking about, what he was saying in St. Petersburg about the removal of oil and gas, because the oil duty on Russia's gas is quite convenient, it's left behind, there's no removal. But what is very sensitive to Ukraine, sugar, is in the elimination zone. Also, metal products, metallurgy, and chemical industries. So this is the production that makes up the left-hand part of the export potential of Ukraine. So even these facts say that signing such a free trade agreement for Ukraine is unfavourable. It cautions that there is again an attempt to synchronize the ratification of these agreements. On December 20, Janukovic claims that they are ready to sign these contracts. And on 21st, the same statement made by President Medvedev of Russia. We've already seen synchronization in the signing of the Harkow Agreements, and if we could now analyze and make a critical assessment of what we've done, there might be more than one that would have scratched our heads. But that's not what we're talking about. The time will come, they will talk about it, and they will answer for it. So I think that the draft of such a hearing order for Azarov is necessary. And those who work in those industries, even most of them, would also find it interesting to hear what losses they will suffer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u141	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, while we share the world with you and our enemies, until we, in the sense of speaking, nail the billboards on the fronts of the States: America, friend, Russia, enemy, we will never take Ukraine on a broad road of democratic and economic progress. In a crisis in which all countries, wise leaders, wise public figures are looking for ways to expand markets to move goods. What is a crisis? The crisis is not when I cannot produce the product, but when I cannot sell it, when markets are shrinking when we are losing markets. If the authorities are actively engaged in expanding markets for the promotion of goods, we are thus minimizing the negative effects of the world economic crisis on our country. The CIS Free Trade Zone, a free trade zone with Europe, we are expanding markets. And what we are really synchronizing is the ratification vote in both Russia and Ukraine, both in Kiev and Moscow, and in Dum and in the Supreme Council, will be such a powerful impetus for further deepening and economic and political cooperation between our countries and peoples in favour of both Ukraine and Russia, and they acquire markets, and we do. So, I think there's a lot of economic information anyway. And whoever wanted to make a political pyre here or set up a political Sabbath, I don't think that's going to work. And when the vote is synchronized, the Prime Minister will be here, and you can ask him questions and exchange views. But I have no doubt that common sense will win, and the vote will pass, and we will expand the markets to move forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u143	Finish up, Mikhailo Vasilovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. There's a rights committee that draws the attention of the authors and us, including, not the report, but the information, but the essence of what they say is not changing, and the date is changed. But best of all, I'd like to listen to Michael Vasilovich's speech, which is perfectly correct and logical. This agreement outside the session room will not pass. If there is such a treaty, and we know from the media that it is, even though it is not in the Supreme Council, and I do not know how those who speak about it know its contents, if it is, such a treaty, we will surely ratify it. And when we're ratified, we're going to ask all those questions to the reporters that need to be heard, and the session room is going to be defined. But there is the right of the legislative initiative, there is the right of the MP, so I'm putting forward a proposal, a draft decree for hearing the report of Prime Minister Azarov, not a report, but rather information on the signing on October 18 of the Free Trade Agreement within the Commonwealth of Independent States, I'm laying the groundwork. [[Registration number 9366]] If we're going to take this as a base, then we're going to be with you on a date. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:41:04]] For-30 The decree is rejected. Let's move on to the section "Second Reading Again." Draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine on periods of appeal to the court. [[Bill 7467 registration number]] An offer is made to consider the reduced procedure. [[12:41:41]] For 222 Thank you. Offer supported. The author of the bill ignores the work of the session, so the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Justice's Subcommittee on Justice, Ljovczyn Ulya Volodymyryn. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u144	On December 7, 2011, the Committee on Justice considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice concerning the terms of reference to the court. According to the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, there is no need to increase the court’s time frame. That is the view of the committee. Yes, according to article 71, part two, in administrative matters concerning the illegality of decisions, actions, or omissions of organs of authority, the obligation to prove the rightfulness of its decision, action or omission relies on an answer if it denies an administrative action. On the basis of the foregoing, the burden of proof in the dispute rests on the authority of authority. At the same time, in administrative proceedings, unlike a civilian subject of authority, he must bring to justice all documents and materials available to him that may be used as evidence in the case. In the event that this obligation is not fulfilled, the court requires the requested documents and materials. Therefore, it is only sufficient for the plaintiff to state by way of an administrative action that his rights have been violated or obstacles created to their implementation, and in such a case, the court, assisting the person on its own initiative, requires additional materials, documents, appoints expertise, calls a witness, a specialist, and takes steps to implement the court’s decision immediately. As a result of the foregoing, such SASU positions relieve the plaintiff of the need for a long - term process of preparation of evidence for administrative implementation. In its conclusion, the main scientific and expert management also makes a number of observations, but proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Justice recommends that the draft law be rejected as a result of the first reading. [[Registration number 47. 7467]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u145	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we vote? Yes, Carmazin, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u146	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of this bill? In general, the Shustik People's Deputy Bill on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice is a positive bill. I want to thank her that this is a return to the people's rights that they had before the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Judiciality and the Status of Judges. This was the reason why the expert body recommended the adoption of the law. And it was no longer the political decision of the Justice Committee. Political because they were contracting this judicial reform, which reduced the total term of reference to the administrative court from one year earlier to six months. These changes were made to part two of article 99. We consider this position to be one that narrows down the guarantees of human rights by bringing to justice in violation of part three of article 22 of the Constitution on the inability to narrow the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms when adopting new laws or amending existing laws. The project therefore foresees that citizens be allowed to appeal to the administrative court for protection of their rights, freedoms and interests over the course of the year. Would you please tell someone that the citizens could have been better protected? Apparently, it was a hindrance. And we've now seen what's going on with the Constitutional Court, even though it's only recently made decisions that corresponded to the Constitution. Now he's turned into a unit of the President's Secretariat or the President's Administration. Because of this, a bill that provides for amendments to article 99 of the Code of Administrative Justice and to the article "To the End" and "Transitional Positions", which allows.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u147	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u148	And it allows natural persons to protect their rights, freedoms, interests that have been violated since March 10, 2010 until they become effective by this law, I think they should be accepted in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u149	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. [[concerning the term of appeal to the court]] [[Registration number 7467]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:47:18]] For-49 Not supported. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we're looking at the final chapter: "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukraine Act on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption (for the size of one-off costs (contributions/investments) to be declared). Registration number 9114. National MP Matchuk, please explain your view of the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the bill is proposed, it's extremely short, there's literally one change to that Law that we voted last year on the principles of fighting corruption. As you will recall, there is a predictable norm in this law, a very progressive, good, European norm that those who represent a state acting as a state should include not only income but also expenditure in the declaration. In itself, the norm is very good, but, nevertheless, the amount of one-off costs to be declared, namely, 150,000 dollars, i.e. almost $20,000, was the subject of a very intense discussion at the time of adoption of this law. It's been more than half a year and it's become clear during this time that for the vast majority, 99 percent of government officials, not just government officials, it's MPs, it's judges, it's people who work in other government authorities. This graph is going to be filled with one dash, it's going to be one zero. So for the fight against corruption, it turns out that the number of 150,000 dollars doesn't matter because the average wage, the official salary of a government official in Ukraine, is 2,900 dollars. The European standard that costs declarations, the one-time cost that exceeds the monthly wage, we were not paid, was not counted. I'm not offering 2900 dollars, I'm offering at least 15,000 dollars. This may be the subject of discussion, but not at all 150,000 dollars, since the fight against corruption does not have to be discussed at all. Thank you, please put it in the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u151	Please, Beavs from the committee. You don't? Dear colleagues, let's remember the story of why the figure of 150,000 appeared. We didn't make it up with you. We discussed the amount of this in the session hall several times, because the Prevention and Anti-Corruption Act we had very narrowly in the session room, and we eventually came to the conclusion that we should put into law the amount that is widely accepted in the European Union. And based on the norms that have been in force since 2005, when you and I passed this law last year, we've put in an amount of 150,000. There's a certain logic to what you're saying, up to, really, that's an overstatement. But it probably makes sense that if we put the smaller amount, the smaller ones, sorry, the officials, are going to be doing what they're doing, and how much they've spent, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, whether they've bought what's more than, in fact, their annual income several times. So the will of the session room, but I'm just stressing for those of us who hear that the number didn't just come up, we didn't make it up, it's a number. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yeah, it's a figure that's pan-European. Yes, Karmazin, and we will vote. Yeah, yeah, we're talking about getting into the daytime. We do. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u152	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for reminding me of the circumstances when we accepted. We actually studied experience at the time, if you remember, it was a vote, and then a lot of articles were applied in contravention of the Rules, well, that's what we did. But then we brought it all up to articles 2 and 7 of Directive 200560 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of the use of the financial system. Because there's a standard of 15,000 euros and more. But we live in another country, we live in Ukraine. And now it's perfectly correct to ask Mr. Matchuk, where he says I've written 15,000 to start talking. Obviously, this amount can be controversial. And, Adam Ivanovich, we've seen you, during the existence of this law, meeting Ukrainian citizens who said, and where you've seen this cost of 150 dollars once. Write at least 50,000. Matthew wrote down 15. But in any case, if we accept the digit in the first reading of the change, we can change this figure to a digit that would be more appropriate for Ukraine. It's definitely not a figure of 150,000. Absolutely. I think there's 50 thousand to stop here, given that we're, let's say, three or four times worse than the Europeans are. But in view of this declarative position of this norm, any fight against corruption in the state will simply cease, and this must be agreed with colleague Matchuk, the venerable Adam Ivanovich. So support, you know how to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u153	I know that on the one hand, you're a big fan of what we should go to Europe, and on the other hand, you're saying that we don't have to go to Europe. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The proposal for inclusion shall be put to the vote. Well, there's no such thing, but please, Matchuku's microphone, he wants to clarify something.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u154	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. That standard you're talking about, 15,000 euros, it was taken and it really exists in Europe, but it's a FatF standard that's used to fight against dirty money laundering and prevent terrorism. I mean, 15,000, according to Europeans, is the cost of a minimum set of terrorists. And we're talking about the fight against corruption, and in this case, the key is income and expenditure. So at the average income of 2,000,900 dollars of a civil servant in Ukraine, the requirement to declare one-off expenses of more than 150,000 dollars will result in us simply talking about the fight against corruption, doing, unfortunately, nothing will succeed. So I'm asking you to at least consider this bill, put it in the agenda. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers does not deny that it is necessary to reduce.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u155	I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Ukraine Act on Principles for Prevention and Anti-Corruption. [[Registration number 9114]] I'd like to make a statement. [[12:55:04]] For the 10th. Not supported. Although what you're saying, Victor Josephovich, is, as far as I know, an instructional letter from tax collectors that says they're checking what they think is necessary. I mean, we wrote a declaration with you or not, but they have the right to check and install. So it's not about the declaration, it's about how it works for those who have to keep track of the expenditure. I explained why we wrote. Dear colleagues, we are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. [[Registration numbers 9533 and 9533-1]] The speakers here are: the first is Sweden, the second is Carmazin. Please, Yuri Anatolyevich, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u156	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Paragraph 22 of the first part of article 92 of the Constitution states: “What is defined by the laws of Ukraine alone is the acts that are the crimes and the responsibility for them.” Foresight means, in particular, that the law should be foresight. The law must be formulated with sufficient precision to allow the individual to regulate his conduct. The United Nations Convention against Corruption in Article 19 recommends that Member States recognize as a crime the deliberate abuse of official authority or service status, i.e. the exercise of any action or abstention from carrying out actions that violate the legislation of a public official when performing his duties with the aim of obtaining any undue benefit for himself or another natural or legal person. It is known that the illegal convenience of anticorruption legislation involves money or other property, benefits, benefits, services, intangible assets that are promised, offered, offered, or received free of charge or at a price lower than the minimum market value. Thus, by proposing to change the storybook of article 365, and I propose that the first part of it be deleted, paragraph one of the second paragraph reads: “exceeding power, that is to say intentional action by a service person, which clearly goes beyond the limits of their mandate and is accompanied by violence or threat of use of violence, the use of weapons or special means or painful acts, and which offend the individual's dignity for acts of torture,” in paragraph one of the third words “parts one or more”. Replace with the words "part." In such a case, harmonisation of the adoption of the National Criminal Law Act with the provisions of the UN Convention against Corruption will not only allow Ukraine to comply with its international legal obligations but also bring the national legal system closer to the high standards of the rule of law and the rule of law under which it is governed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u157	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u158	I'm done. which Timoshenko does not sit on in accordance with European legislation. Because of this, I would like this law not under Timoshenko, it's the law to bring European legislation. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u159	Shall we vote? Dear colleagues, if anyone wants to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at this morning's meeting, the opposition insisted on including this bill first, discussing and voting. That was their requirement. And when the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Litwin, said, "If we work well, we'll look at it. Let's work." And we really, really, because of their absence, and because of their demagogies, the unwillingness to work, we've considered virtually all the laws and we've approached their draft law. But right before the vote, we can see they're not in the hall. So I have a question: Did they need this law, or did they need a pianist? If they needed this law, why are they not in the hall now? And do they not support the wise suggestions of Yuri Karmazin and vote? They're gone now. I will not speak for the essence of the law, for I will not vote for it. Because we cannot be under every person who has a criminal responsibility to pass another law. But once again, the position is interesting. In the morning, they must have wanted to quickly break the matter down and go about their business. So I have a situation, Adam Ivanovich, let's draw up a pattern: Wednesday is the day of the opposition, they're resting, and Thursday is the day of the majority, we're having a party, maybe we'll get some rest. Well, what do we do for them and for us, and that's not the point. So I want us to condemn acts of opposition that do not support our colleague and that do not want us to vote in favour of a law that in some way probably applies to Yulia Timoshenko. And we will certainly not vote for him. It's a law that will do nothing better for criminals who cover up political slogans, steal the state, and then say, "Freedom for political prisoners," because, you see, they've stolen a lot and have the right to freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u161	Alexander Mikolaiovich, this is from the opera where they say: "Do you have a cab or a checkbook?" It means what the opposition did. We've really come to consider the issues that we've been planning, but. Clearly, there is a need for advertising and visibility of the struggle, not for the work itself. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the harmonization of national criminal legislation with the United Nations Convention against Corruption. Bill registration numbers 9533, 9533-1. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:02:04]] For-13. Overruled. The factions? Some even say by name. Yes, "BUT – "Fatherland" – 3 people, "Our Ukraine" – 7, "Reforms" – 3 people. [[B in m in s a l in]] We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Final Provisions of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine with a view to overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis. [[on the continuation of anti-crisis rules on bank activities and their capitalization]] [[Registration number 9398]] The subject of the legislative initiative is Stanislaw Arzzewitin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u162	Dear National MPs, the essence of legislative proposals is to extend for two years some of the banking anti-crisis laws of 2009 to include in the regulatory capital the sum of the funds involved under the conditions of subordinated debt and to allow individual transactions to be carried out by banks within the limits of the available licences by 2014. Today, this antichrist law is foreseen until 2012. When we accepted these standards with you by 2012, we expected and predicted that the crisis would be overcome. But we know that the real consequences will still have to be fought for a long time, and we are on the verge of yet another crisis. So I would like to thank you again for having made a very wise and state-owned decision with you in February 2011 and allowing banks to raise statutory capital by 2016. I'd like to remind you, you remember the position of the National Bank that this was supposed to be before 2012, not 2016, that we saved 130 banks, we saved the banking system from collapse, which I'm very grateful for. The changes proposed by 9398 are also due to the fact that the National Bank, in spite of our legislative initiative to raise capital by 2016, by Decrees 273, 281 obliges the Bank’s capital to increase to 120 million and, in some cases, to 180 million by 01.01.2012. Today, all groups of banks — foreign, national, and national — are at risk. That's over 50 banks. To recapitalize the implementation of these regulations takes up to 5 billion dollars. In a crisis, you realize that's not possible. So I'm asking you convincingly: let's put it in the agenda, let's listen to the National Bank's argument, whether there's a problem or not, and put a dot on this. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u163	Thank you. If there was a problem, I think the National Bank, as the subject of the legislative initiative, would have passed such a bill a long time ago. We might have to ask another question: where are the billions that have been spent from the state budget in support of banks, where they went, and how many criminal cases are being dealt with now? Do you want me to open another feed? Well, that's your right. Yes, shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session a draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian laws aimed at overcoming the negative effects of the financial crisis (for the continuation of the anti-crisis rules on bank activities and their capitalization (registration No. 9398). I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:06:10]] For 235 It's on. We're discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the daily project of the 120th anniversary of the birth of scientist Michael Krawczuk. [[Registration number 9463]] Dear colleagues, September 27, 2012 is 120 years old. By the way, he was born in Volina, so please support. Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:07:00]] For 269 Thank you for your support and initiative. We're talking about the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of Jaroslav Stack. [[Registration number 9478]] Viennese insists on the performance, please. The author's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u164	Christ Is Born! Let's celebrate him! Dear Ukrainians, on January 19, 2012, 100 years of age since the birth of Ukraine's outstanding freedom and independence fighter, Jaroslav Stecka, who was also the leader of the anti-wieldom bloc of nations, who today are protesting in the face of non-Ukrainian communists against his 100th anniversary. And the anti-White bloc of nations was driven by a simple slogan: "Freedom for man, freedom for the peoples!" So let me tell you, Jaroslav Stecko. [[Take it, I give it to you, I have so much]] I mean, not one public organization, in this case this calendar of Ukrainians was released by the Lviv district organization of the political prisoner association, which you, the Communists, have put out enough circulation to distribute not only in the Lviv region but also throughout Ukraine. I think Vladimir Gorov will find additional sponsors to give that calendar as much as possible in the west and east and south. I am convinced that the observance of the day of the heroes of Ukraine like Jaroslav Stecko will be quite respectable and just. Moreover, a number of district councils, including the Lviv District Council on this issue, have taken a decision, and the following year in the Lviv Region was announced by Yaroslava Stecko, as well as by the creation of UPA, and this has also taken place on Volina, and so I would like to take the vote into account. Moreover, Jaroslav Stecko held a congregation of Ukrainians in 1930 that proclaimed the Ukrainian Independence Act, was then arrested, and was in the German concentration camp in the death chamber in the fall of 1943. I think it's the kind of people who have fought against the gray and red plagues against the Ukrainians that it would be right to honor us, the Ukrainian Parliament, if it matches the name: the Ukrainian Parliament. Praise the heroes!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-01-11-m0.u165	Volodymyr Mikhailovich should also be reminded of the June 30, 1941, act announced by Jaroslav Stecko. Yes, but he had to say that he was talking about supporting the newly proclaimed Ukraine of the great Germany and the Führer. So if you're talking, you're telling the truth. Shall we discuss it? He gave up late. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the day session of the draft decree marking the 100th anniversary of the birth of Stack, 9478 bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:10:28]] For-16 The factions, please. A party of regions is 1 for, "The Fatherland." The parties of the regions - 1 for, 19 for, 19 for, 2 for, 8 for, 8 for, 0 for, 25 for, 5 for reforms for the future, 5 for the People's Party, "Afterfaction" - did not vote from "Afterfaction" against. And, honourable colleagues, there is a proposal to include in the agenda of the day session, with a view to considering tomorrow, a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts on State control over land use and protection. [[on administrative reform measures]] [[Bill registration number 9558]] Please contact the Agrarian Policy Committee. On the other hand, my dear colleagues, I would like to explain briefly and clearly that there is a government inspection of agriculture. Since the laws in force are otherwise called, changes to the laws must be made to ensure that they have legitimate grounds for action not only on the basis of the situation but also of the laws. That is why I ask to include in the agenda of the day session and to consider tomorrow, because the committee considered it, bill number 9558: amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on State control over land use and protection. Please vote. [[13:12:24]] For 260 Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, you and I have exhausted the order of the day. It's a shame that the opposition has once again ignored the job they've been delegated to, the part of the opposition they've been given, except for Carmazin, which it's delegated to, and for which it's getting the wages of tax payers that it seems to care about. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Today, at 3 p.m., the session hall will hold parliamentary hearings on "Ethnonational politics of Ukraine: gains and prospects." Tomorrow we start work at 10 o'clock.
