ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:41]] They registered cards in the 407 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleague, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please welcome him and wish him success and health. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the plenary on 21 March 2012. Twenty-two issues of the agenda have been considered: three decisions have been adopted, one draft decree has been adopted on the basis of seven bills and six draft decrees have been rejected. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now consider the issues set out in the March 22 calendar. Sas, please. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would like to draw your attention to the requirement of part five of article 25 of the Rules, which states that the issue of the agenda of the day plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, which remained pending in the plenary session, is being considered by the Supreme Council first in the next plenary session. Before the end of the plenary meeting yesterday. Vladimir Mikhailovich, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I am addressing you. Yesterday before the closing of the plenary session, the chairman of the plenary said that the last question had not been considered, Bill 9476 would be considered today as the first in the plenary meeting to meet the requirements of the Rules. Given that Wednesday, I realized what you're going to say, that this was an opposition day, there was no opposition day, so I demand that you comply with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u3	Dear colleagues! I think so. Let us demand that we follow the standard of the Rules under all circumstances. And I appreciate you telling me how to organize the work of the Supreme Council. You should also advise against blocking the rostrum because this is contrary to the Rules. And secondly, the Rules do not foresee a day of opposition, but we have agreed that on Wednesday we will deal with the issues proposed by the opposition. This question is not discussed, let us consider next week. And I would ask you to be consistent in keeping the Rules always and in everything, and, in principle, I absolutely agree with you. Take it easy. A draft law on the provision of affordable housing for citizens is being announced for consideration. After the second reading, we will consider Bill 9476, after the second reading. Yeah, that's what I said. Honourable National Deputies, Rapporteur is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban, Housing and Utilities and Regional Policy, Sergey Fedorovich Maybeard. Well, we made a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the Committee, at its meeting on 22 February, considered the preparations for the second reading of the draft Law on the Provision of Access to Housing, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers on 25 March 2009. Having examined the legislative and regulatory framework for the construction of affordable housing, the Committee notes that the mechanism and the possibility of the construction and provision of affordable housing is now sufficiently normal. In particular, the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of the Impact of the World Financial Crisis on the Development of the Construction Industry and Housing, the Housing Code of the Ukrainian Soviet Union, the Ukrainian Code of Land, the Law on Urban Control, the Ukrainian Code of Taxation. The Cabinet of Ministers has approved and implemented, in practice since 2010, the State-designated socio-economic programme “Affordable housing for 2010-2017”. In two years, more than 1,350 families had received housing for the State support programme for the construction of affordable housing. At the same time, citizens' investments amounted to about 430 million bracelets. Thus, almost 600 million bracelets were drawn into the construction industry as part of the affordable housing programme. The State budget for 2012 provides for 200 million bracelets, which is twice the amount actually allocated in the previous year. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine withdraw from its consideration the draft Law on the provision of affordable housing for citizens due to the loss of relevance and to recognize the loss of validity of Supreme Council Decision No. 1863-4 of 10.02.2010 on the adoption of the draft Law on the provision of affordable housing for citizens. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u5	Please, let's do it this way, dear colleagues. If there's a faction, one minute at a time. Yuri Odarchenko will be, won't he? Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u6	I want to talk to the voters. This is the wickedness and lies of the Party of the Regions that are very clear on this very example. On February 10, 2010, the Supreme Council adopted this bill aimed at providing quick and effective housing for our citizens. A little time has passed, and the Party of Regions has taken full power in Ukraine, and this bill has no longer been put before the Council because it envisioned aid to people and prevented them from stealing state funds. It's been two years, and the Party of Regions has decided to make a pear before the elections, and they're introducing a bill on the same issue of housing. The project is much worse than it was accepted in the first reading, but the Party of Regions cannot consider it because it is signed by Yulia Timoshenko. They don't care about people, they propose to cancel the bill that was already adopted in the first reading and to start a procedure for the adoption of the new law. They say it's affordable, but it's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u7	Who else from the faction insists? None. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a motion for a committee to withdraw from the draft Act on the provision of affordable housing for citizens. [[Registration number 4124/p1]] Please vote. [[10:08:27]] For the 220. The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to withdraw. So, now we're going back to the committee? I put it to a vote: go back to the subject. I'm asking you to stop the rally! Let's make a decision! Come back. [[10:08:59]] For 231 We're back on the subject. I would like to vote on the motion for a committee to withdraw from the draft Act on the provision of affordable housing for citizens. [[Registration number 4124/p1]] Please vote. It's about taking a picture off the table. Please vote. [[10:09:30.]] For 238. Decision taken. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase the liability for interference with pipelines. [[Registration number 9344]] The rapporteur is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Please, Vladimir Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u8	Vladimir Moses, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The purpose of this law is to establish and strengthen responsibility for interfering with the activities of the main, industrial, inter-industrial gas distribution and internal gas-, oil-, condensate and petroleum pipelines. The bill is supported by the majority in the hall. At the same time, there are significant observations by the Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Chief Legal Authority. The Supreme Council's lawyers point out that the overly complex structure of the disposal is proposed in article 292, there is no statistical data on why the old edition does not work and what data confirms the need to change this law, and there is competition in criminal law. But with the committee limited in its capacity, the committee considered three legislative proposals from the authors of the MPs. Two of them were confirmed and one rejected and suggested that the Supreme Council adopt the law on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u9	Honorable National MPs, as amended. The 2nd amendment is rejected. Yuri Carmazin, insists on it? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u10	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, I proposed leaving article 292 as a valid text of the Criminal Code. First of all, there is no need to detail the subjects at the site. Secondly, the adoption of the proposed amendments to the 292nd Criminal Code will result in unwanted competition between the rules of this article and article 103 with badge 2, damage to the pipelines in the conduct of the work, and the Code of Administration. Moreover, the proposal to supplement the objective aspect of the crime, which is the responsibility for the commission of which is provided for in article 292 of the Criminal Code, is legally incorrect, such as interference with the work of technology. Because it can be both sanctioned and preventive, repair and non-sanctioned. And thirdly, I find it unwarranted to suggest an increase in the penalties for the types of fines imposed by Part 1 of 292 to the size of 100 to 1,000 non-taxable minimums of citizens. Please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u11	Vladimir Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, but Yuri Anatoliyovich's position is fully supported by the Chief Legal and Scientific Administration. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u13	Honourable MPs, the amendment of Yuri Carmazin is put to the vote. [[10:13:15]] For-13. Correction not supported. All other amendments are included. Please, Vladimir Romanovich. Then we put it to a vote? Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt a bill on the second reading and in general. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill requires substantial work and re-reading. I would like to place a motion on the vote first for a committee to adopt in the second reading and generally as a bill of the draft Act amending article 292 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing responsibility for interference with pipelines]] Please vote. [[10:14:13]] For-123 The decision is not taken. I am voting on the proposal of the General Legal Office to send the bill for re-reading in connection with the need for its substantive work. Please vote. [[10:14:44]] For 306 Decision taken, thank you. I'm announcing a draft Act amending the Law on the Prevention of Tuberculosis. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 6037]] The rapporteur is Head of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteyev Health Committee. Please, Aunt Dmitry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u14	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is called for a completely new draft of the anti-Tuberculosis Bill. On first reading, the Act was adopted on 10 June 2010. 342 people's deputies voted in favour of him, regardless of political views. To date, Ukraine has ranked second in Europe in terms of morbidity, mortality, tuberculosis. Every hour we lose four people with tuberculosis, every hour for the first time we find a new tuberculosis patient. In 19 years of independent Ukraine, we have lost nearly 200,000 Ukrainians to tuberculosis. Of course, the situation must be changed. The bill has not changed for 10 years. Clearly, many things had changed during that time, so a year and a half for second reading said that the law had been drafted. The Chief Scientific and Legal Office recommends the adoption as a whole of law without any comment. We've had 57 amendments. 53 revisions have been taken into account. The amendments also came from the people's deputies of all political factions of Parliament. Four amendments have not been taken into account because in general they have already been partially taken into account, and some points we cannot agree on with international norms. Let's say it's a ban on the use of anti-tuberculosis drugs, as it is today. If we are to tighten the hospitalization of patients with open tuberculosis, we must eliminate the possibility of an outpatient treatment. Next amendment. If an alien has an open form of tuberculosis, it is proposed to remove them immediately from Ukraine by providing him with only primary medical care. This is very contrary to international norms, law and the Constitution of Ukraine. That's why we turned her down. The next amendment is to prohibit the financing of the tuberculosis programme from all charitable funds. This is also impossible because public funding is always insufficient and any assistance, any fund, any organization is always very important. Therefore, I would like to vote in general as a law, especially since the world celebrates the World Day against Tuberculosis on 24 March. Our Ukrainian Parliament must show our joint great and very important work to combat tuberculosis in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, all the amendments are included. Four corrections are not included. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on your amendments? Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u16	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, for many years I have demanded that the fight against tuberculosis be intensified, and for many years we have made amendments and documents. Now I see there's still a disagreement, because there's probably a lot of amendments that I've taken into account here. But given the useful work the committee did, by the way, I want to thank you for the first time in my life for the serious work you've done. And I'm not going to insist on taking their amendments into account, they're practically all accounted for, or partially, or editorially, a few not taken into account. I think we can bring it in later. Now, the main task of making this law sooner is to ask you, Vladimir Mikhailovich, to be signed and sent to the President as soon as possible, so that we can mark the World Day for the Fight against Tuberculosis with the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the committee has worked hard on all the proposals. The main legal administration does not have and also appreciates this project. There is a motion for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Combating Tuberculosis. [[new editor]] [[6037 - Project registration number]] Please vote. [[10:20:09]] For three hundred The law is passed. I thank the head of the committee and the committee for their fine work. The draft Act amending articles 361 and 362 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine is announced for consideration. [[on grounds for review of decisions or judicial decisions]] [[Registration number 8411]] The rapporteur is Deputy Chief Justice Committee Valerius Anatolyevich Bondik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the honourable Bureau, the committee considered at its meeting the four amendments that had been made, and all the amendments had been taken into account. The bill refers to the possibility of our citizens in the course of civil proceedings. Civil and procedural legislation, i.e. civil disputes, are re-examined under newly discovered circumstances, decisions or the approval of a court in relation to what sometimes occurs, for example, a judge who has ruled on a given decision or decision, is called to criminal responsibility. And these are the new circumstances that allow for an extension of the citizen’s right to submit if he does not agree, and here there is a really established reason, a binding link, a reason to investigate the actions of the court, and this gives the citizen the right to defend himself in court, and to review the questionable approval or decision in the newly declared order. So please support this bill. Once again, the committee recommends that it be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee suggests that we accept it as a law in the second reading. Corrections are all taken into account. The main legal administration has no comment on the project under way. A second reading proposal is put to the vote and as a whole a bill amending articles 361 and 362 of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine. [[on grounds for review of decisions or judicial decisions]] [[Project registration number 8411]] Please vote. [[10:22:44]] For 344 The law is passed. I'm announcing a draft Industrial Parks Act. The rapporteur is Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Natal Royal. Please. Who will report from the committee? Secretariat, I'm paying attention to why there's no reporter? Okay, let's go get the repairs, then I'll be the repairs myself. All right, Five, 3 revisions. Don't insist. Tissue, six repairs. Kaskiv, but Kaskiv is no longer a deputy. Yes, Carmazin, 28th Amendment. Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u20	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I don't insist on this amendment, it's not important. The point is, obviously, there's no Royal because again in the Forest market, the police are still putting up with entrepreneurs today. And this is happening without a court ruling in a non-judicial manner with the use of the militia, with the application of the powers of the local authorities. And I've been talking to you for a month now, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, in the centre of Europe, is doing this on the eve of Euro-2012, when the police are doing an uncharacteristic function. Of course, there's no one to reveal the murders, because there's a market redistribution going on, and there's a struggle for spheres of influence. I ask you to give a protocol commission on this matter, because people are calling, people are outraged at what is happening today and how their rights are being violated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies, however, the national MP on the sessional day should be in the Supreme Council and speak here if there are such problems and make appropriate decisions. And with markets, I think we need to figure out, get all the help and give it to the MPs, including. So it's not too painful to discover who owns these markets, who "breathes" them. If we're talking about people, we need to protect them. Yes, who insists on their amendments to this bill? I can't see. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt in a second reading and as a whole as a bill for the draft Industrial Parks Act. Please vote. There's a vote coming, please. [[10:26:17]] For 271 The law is passed. The draft Act on the Supplement to Article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports is being published for consideration. [[on the insurance of contestants]] [[Project registration number 5137]] The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting reviewed the amendments and proposals made by the legislators who had come to the bill. A total of 7 amendments have been made, it is proposed to take into account 2 amendments, to partially consider 1 amendment and to reject 4 amendments. I would like to point out to the Ukrainian National Deputies that the Committee has proposed that life insurance and the health of athletes be determined as a prerequisite for sporting competitions. In doing so, it is suggested that life insurance and the health of athletes involved in sports competitions are provided by organizers of competitions at the expense of organizers or athletes. I would like to point out that in a few days of competition, insurance costs will amount to a small amount, but it will help a young athlete to obtain adequate insurance in the event of injury. The committee disagrees with the comments made by the General Legal Authority, since the definition of a mandatory condition for life - insurance competitions and sportsmen’s health is not compulsory insurance. We also disagree with the view of the General Legal Authority that the adoption of the bill will increase the cost of the budget. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, we're on our way. Is the miracle insisting on its 2nd amendment? No, it's not. Yuri Anatolyovich Karmazin, 3rd Amendment Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u24	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national MPs, Amendment 3 refers to my proposal for the presentation of part four of article 40 in another edition. I'm proposing that this part is edited. And, I think if it were taken into account, the legal authorities' observations would probably fall away. I propose that we write, "The life and health of participants in sports competitions during sports competitions and training during the training period are subject to compulsory insurance." Because injuries can also be sustained during the training period for competitions, and this is quite obvious. Because I'd like to support the committee, and today the representatives and the opposition, and the coalition, it's not a political bill, and it would reduce the risk that once the bill is passed, it will be made after the legal authorities have noticed, it would reduce the risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u25	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u26	The amendment is rejected because the issue of insurance is not compulsory for athletes, but insurance is a prerequisite for sports competitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u27	Amendment 3 of Yuri Karmazin is put to the vote. The committee rejected the amendment. [[10:29:45]] For-9 Correction not supported. 5 amendment, Naydenov is the author. Are you insisting on her? Oh, no? No, it's not. They're taking off their warnings. And the 7th Amendment, Wonderful. Is she insisting on it? No, it's not. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, I would like to address the representatives of the various factions. And our interfractional merger of Health and Sports Ukraine, and of course a colleague from the State Sports Service, we offer such a compromise. Today, there is no understanding in the Ministry of Finance as compulsory insurance to provide financially, and they are, in their opinion, right. There are many cases where we cannot protect and prevent the health of the contestants, especially in rural areas, without compulsory insurance. So our proposal is: let's go back to second reading and work out the mechanism that will finance and provide this state insurance, or the federation, or society. The question of how to secure it financially is that it should be mandatory during the race, that it does not raise questions. So our parliamentary sports community's proposal is to re-read and work with Minfin and then put it to a final vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! We have two proposals. The committee’s first proposal is to accept it in its second reading and generally as a law. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill should be rejected at all. And the second proposal for re-reading the bill. The proposal for adoption in the second reading and as a whole as a bill of the draft Law on Supplementing Article 40 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport is put to the vote. [[on the insurance of contestants]] [[Registration number 5137]] [[10:32:06]] For-55 The decision is not taken. The second proposal for re-reading Bill 5137 is put to the vote. [[10:32:31]] For 301 Decision taken. I am introducing a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine. [[concerning the testimony]] Dear colleagues, the committee. I'll be working for Natalia Royal, head of the committee, obviously. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine. The public’s voices on this issue were divided. The Supreme Council has received both a number of appeals from solid, cultural and artistic institutions, institutions that require the adoption of such a law to protect nationals, particularly representatives of the creative and cultural profession, as well as appeals that deny the need to adopt such a law. The committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to withdraw the bill. So I'm going to put a committee proposal to the vote. In the absence of support for this proposal, the committee will be required to bring to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the corresponding draft law prepared in the second reading. Is the offer understood? I am voting on a proposal by the Committee on the Adoption of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal from the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Gastronal Measures in Ukraine. [[Registration number 8757-p1]] [[10:34:36]] For 278 Decision taken. With motive? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Indeed, such a bill is essential to Ukraine because today there are huge swaths to the side of, say, foreign gastrolers who come to Ukraine, and there are gastropolises and large amounts of money coming out of Ukraine, virtually without paying taxes. But this bill also makes a different trachea: that anyone who has to speak either at the Palace of Ukraine or at the former Yellow Palace should make a large sum. This is a barrier to access, let's say, the talented young performers who don't have that kind of money. That's why I think we need to work on this bill, and the committee will do so, and we'll put in a normal bill that will support our countrymen, our executives, and which will be fair, and we'll do it. And today, indeed, we do not need to approve it, and we have done it faithfully.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, in response to such a proposal by Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, I ask the Secretariat to prepare a commission for our two committees, including the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, to work out the appropriate project and submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the month. I think that's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities is being reviewed. [[on the list of customers not participating in the rations]] [[Project registration number 9778]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy of Igor Volodymyrovich Lisov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u32	Honorary colleagues, the bill proposes to complete the list of objects whose construction is exempt from the payment of rations in the development of the infrastructure of the inhabited area, the object of the engineering and transportation infrastructure, except for road services. This bill was adopted at the first reading on February 10, 2012. During this time, the committee had received three proposals from law enforcement entities, one of which was part of the proposal and two was rejected. At its meeting on 12 March 2011, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 40 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities to be adopted in second reading and in general as a law. [[on the list of customers who do not participate in the rations]] The bill is being drafted without notice by the Chief Legal Authority. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u33	Yes. Yuri Hanushtak, 1 amendment rejected. Are you insisting on her? No, I can't see. Yuri Carmazin, 3rd Amendment Are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u34	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I want us to think about what we're accepting as the law. We've ruled out the previous law. I propose to exclude paragraph 9, and I quote, "engineered objects, transport infrastructure, energy, communications and road management, except for road services." This is the case with the list of items that are not involved in the food market. I base this proposal on the fact that today, in Ukraine, municipal infrastructure is in a state of complete decline and requires substantial recovery costs. With the help of pie-building, the most appropriate, and the fastest, construction of municipal infrastructure. The bill, however, offers to free us from the commercial participation in this building, not specific objects, but the contracting companies that do the construction, that is, have a profit. If this rule works, let's imagine if the President doesn't make a commitment, it's going to have a negative impact on local self-government. That's why I think this amendment has to be taken into account, because otherwise this law is simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u35	Yes, please, the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u36	The position of the committee is as follows: the rations share and the construction of socio-cultural and engineering infrastructures. So we don't think it's appropriate and logical to count on the construction of engineering and transport infrastructures for additional fuel consumption.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u37	Amendment 3, Yuri Karmazin, is put to the vote. [[10:39:40]] For the 10th. Correction not supported. Yuri Voropeyev, microphone, please. What kind of correction are you in? Let him say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u38	I would like to go back to the second amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the following. I think the first reading is correct and comprehensive. The second amendment, given that it had not been fully taken into account and at all as somewhat incorrect, had divided individual industries into parts. That's not true. I ask that this amendment be submitted to confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u39	Please make a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u40	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, also a central heating and water supply facility, is also part of the engineering infrastructure. So that those objects that have energy and heat and water supply are within the same limit as the rations. Therefore, it is necessary to complete the text that was voted on by the committee. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, I'm voting to confirm the amendment of the committee, and I'm going to read it, "objects of engineering and transport infrastructure, including energy, communications and road management, central water supply and water supply." [[other than road services]] I'm betting on the vote to confirm this amendment. Please vote. [[10:41:32]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Now it's me. Then we have an amendment to the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u42	Edit the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u43	It reads: "Objects of engineering transport infrastructure, objects of energy, communications and road management ". [[other than road services]] All of it. Yes, the honourable national MPs, I'm voting on the proposal of a committee that, by the way, is supported by the General Legal Authority, the adoption of a bill on second reading and generally as a law. Registration number 9778. Please vote. [[10:42:23]] For 264 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is being announced for consideration, a new edition. [[Registration number 9654]] The rapporteur is the deputy head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Xenius Leipzig. Xenia Mikhailno, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the bill has been worked out by the committee. 99 amendments have been made. The vast majority of them are counted, but they are rejected, and we are ready to vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u45	Yuri Carmazin, 2nd Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u46	Yuri Carmazin. I want to thank Kseniya Mikhailni. The bill really took a lot into account my amendments. But here's the 2a amendment, it's about what I'm proposing to exclude from paragraph 3, namely, "Application to License is a document of an established sample, which is an immediate addition to the license." I want to say that I made this proposal because it's a popular term, which is an appendix to a license. He does not need any of his legislative fastening. And I think that this paragraph needs to be ruled out in order not to complicate the structure of the bill. And what I want to tell you is that by the end of the bill, I've read it, and the term "licension supplement" in the rest of the project is not used. Why define things that are not included in the law at all. So, Xenia Mikhailno, I think we need to support and remove it for polluting the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u47	Thank you. We discussed this amendment. In fact, there's a point to what you're saying. But there is a second part of the problem. Licensing authorities begin to require various documents of an unspecified sample and then consider them plugins. And on the basis of an improper plugin, you can cancel the license. Whatever it is, we've defined it. However, the hall will be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u48	Vote number 2 of Yuri Karmazin. [[10:44:56]] For the four of us. Correction not supported. Amendment 7 Yuri Carmazin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u49	Amendment 7 refers to what I propose in paragraph 9 to put in a different edition, and this is about defining what economic activity is. I propose that this is the type of activity defined in the list of activities that are subject to the licence provided for in Article 7 of this Law, taking into account the limitations laid down in Article 2 of this Law. And I think that the terminology that's in the project right now is not quite consistent, because in the terms of terms, the license is defined as a business activity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear colleagues, note that we have ruled out this definition because the definition of economic activity is provided by a code that is suitable for farming and does not need to be duplicated in the Licensing Act. We just ruled out this point nine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u51	Vote 7 amendment, Yuri Carmazin. Record, do not insist on the author.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u52	The tablet shows that. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u53	Let's move on. 19 Amendment by Yuri Carmazin, microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u54	You see, it turns out that the previous amendment is practically taken into account because it was excluded from it at all, but not understood afterwards. 19 The amendment relates to what I propose after article 3, by renumbering the articles in the new article 4, as follows: "Licensing in electronic form. The licensee has the right to contact the authorities with a licence application. A licensee applying for the redesign of documents confirming the existence of a licence, an application for termination of a licensed activity, an application for the issuance of a duplicate document confirming the existence of a licence, to send the statutory e-mail in the form of electronic documents. In the event that these documents were received in the form of electronic documents in paragraph 1 above, the licensing authority shall ensure that they are carried out in electronic form: receiving and reviewing statements of reports, conducting a licence case and so on." I make this suggestion because international practice has long been in an appropriate position.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u55	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. It's a really good correction. But when we worked in a working group, the lawyers assured us that without this amendment, if the electronic paperwork in Ukraine was finally launched, even though such a law was long approved, we know it would be possible to do so without this change in electronic form. Here's the question of just regulating the electronic signature and protecting it, and that's all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u56	The 19th Amendment, Yuri Carmazin, is put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u57	No, it just doesn't have to be written separately, it's regulated by general legislation. [[10:48:11]] For the four of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u58	For four. The amendment is not accepted. Amendment 28. Yuri Carmazin, are you insisting on her?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u59	Amendment 28 refers to what I propose in article 6 after part five to complete a new part of the contents that will be number six. "Licensing authorities shall form open and publicly available public information resources containing information from license registers, regulations on licensing of specific activities, as well as technical regulations and other legal and regulatory acts of Ukraine that establish mandatory requirements for licensed activities, except in cases where, in the interests of preserving the public or service secret, access to such resources is restricted in accordance with Ukrainian legislation." That's what I'm bringing in so that Ukrainian citizens have access to information on licensing issues. This will allow the creation of open and publicly available public information resources that fully meet the needs of today. So I don't understand why the committee didn't go to meet Ukrainian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u60	Thank you. In fact, the committee went to meet Ukrainian citizens, and your amendment is just our editorial error, it's edited in another article. We've determined that the only license plate, as well as the license plate, is placed in open access on the websites of the relevant authorities. They found that the order of their access to information was regulated and even defined a clear list of information that could not be published, like passports of a citizen, which is personal data. In fact, your amendment is simply included in another article.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u61	Dear fellow Members, the vote is amended as follows: 28.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u62	She's accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u63	Then what are we filming?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u64	In another article.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u65	Well, everything else is accounted for. Then your 78, are you insisting on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u66	Yuri Carmazin. You can see how beneficial it is to take into account the adjustments. 78 Amendments. It is proposed in article 18 (2) of Part One to exclude, namely: "According to the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Business Persons, updated information on the stay of a legal person in a state of liquidation, the presence of a natural person in a state of business termination or the state registration of its termination, the state registration of the cessation of entrepreneurial activity of an entrepreneur." [[Decrypting term]] This proposal is made by the fact that the proposed edition of this item makes business conditions worse. Although the stated goal is to simplify and improve the licensing process, the appearance of a licence waiver such as a license in a state of cessation of business will have a negative impact on small and medium - size business. Because being in such a state does not always mean that there is no proper activity. Dates, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u67	Thank you. Again, your amendment is actually partially accounted for. We did not delete the article completely, but we copied it completely. If you look at the third column, there's an editorial that you're absolutely right to object to, it's gone. It states that the decision on the state registration of the termination of the subject is the basis for the revocation of the licence. Well, that's a perfectly logical thing, and I think no one would mind. So it's just that there's another amendment that's edited, and yours is partially counted, although it's written that it's rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u68	Yuri Anatolyevich, are you insisting on her? No, it's not. Thank you. Yes, the 92nd Amendment of Yuri Carmazin, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u69	Yuri Carmazin. In 92 amendments that speak of license plates, I would suggest that I put it in a different edition. It's like, "Introducing license registers." It's very big, my amendment, but it's about the fact that licensing authorities run licenses for the types of activities that they license, and so on, in electronic form. I see that part of it is included in the right column, on page 43. But the committee again wrote that the amendment had been rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u70	We apologize, it's a technical error, that is, you're right, it's partially accounted for, because this article has been rewritten.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u71	All right, then, let's get it on? Okay. Xenia Mikhailno, all other amendments are included, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u72	And please, for the record, I would like to point out that the Legal Office has made a few observations that we fully agree with. So I'm just going to read them, they're mostly mostly editorial in nature. First, this is part two of the first part of article 8, which reads: "Special laws set out the characteristics of licensing such activities." Paragraph 5 of the first part of article 3 reads: "The establishment of licensing features in special laws." It's basically an editorial thing that we have roughly so written in a different order of words. And section III, paragraph 3, "Ending Positions", we ask you to do the same editorially in a slightly different way. The holder who has obtained a licence to conduct a certain type of business for an unlimited or limited period of time until it becomes effective by this law continues to carry out economic activity on the basis of this licence within the limits of its duration if the licence has not been revoked in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u73	Microphone, please, Xenia Lupina.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u74	We agree with these observations, and the legal authorities therefore feel that it is acceptable to adopt them in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to take into account the editorial and technical clarifications proposed by the Chief Legal Authority and, taking into account these clarifications, adopt the draft Law in the second reading and in general as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. [[Registration number 9654]] [[new editor]] Please vote. [[10:55:41]] Z-91 The decision is not taken. Xenia Leapina. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u76	I'm just pointing out that I don't understand this form of work when the committee suggested that we postpone consideration of this issue so that maybe we could agree on some more questions, but we insisted that we bring it up as soon as possible. We've worked on it, the law enforcement has acknowledged that we've been redrafting some editorial amendments, and yet now there are some questions in the room that need to be repeated and so forth. I think it's a waste of taxpayers' money. They're not paying us to do anything, excuse me. They're paying us to do it. They're paying us to do it. They're paying us to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, please, Terjehochin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u78	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, in general, when the new law is adopted, the concept changes. In this project nothing changes, the concept remains old. Regrettably, the problem is, not the name of a licensed activity or the number of licences, but in so - called licensing conditions, which are not established by law, unfortunately, but by legal acts. And there is the biggest problem for all entrepreneurship. So given that the concept did not change, this new edition was not to be accepted at all. Well, in order to correct anything in fact, let's send this law back to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u79	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u80	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I fully support Sergei Terehin's proposal. Indeed, it is necessary to be self-critical and often-deputy, yes, when the Cabinet of Ministers sends bad-quality bills and we accept and then we receive the President's veto and spend half an hour to review the veto. Let us therefore look again at this bill, as there is a proposal to improve it so that it can be freely signed by the President and enter into force. Therefore, Sergey Terehina's proposal to re-read the factions of the Party of the Regions supports and invites the House to vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u81	Gennady Bully, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u82	The MP's Reform for the Future voted in favour of this bill, because we understood that it was very right, that entrepreneurs needed it. And, frankly, strangely enough, the second reading was done irreprehensibly by the authors of the bill and all the positive conclusions about the bill. And really, the problem is that at the legislative level, we had to settle the positions that officials make on the ground. And in fact, this law is more anti-corruption, and this law has made the rules of the game clear for entrepreneurs. They would understand that they could demand officials. It's very strange that this bill was not supported by the hall. Let's get him back to second reading, but this bill has to be voted on, that's understandable.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal is clear. There is only one thing I would ask that the name of the President of Ukraine should not be mentioned, for there is no relation to the veto. The veto is what we get when we don't take into account the General Legal Authority's observations when I remind you that they need to be taken into account. And in 99 percent we get the veto after that. But since there is such an offer, I'm voting on it. Again, the proposal to re-read the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain activities. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 9654]] [[11:00:05]] For 302 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we were about to consider a draft of the Law on Public Organizations. At the same time, the committee is still working. is working on this document. At the same time, I draw the attention of the committee to the fact that on May 17, 2011, the committee was entrusted with the task of redrafting this law and bringing it to the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So let's think about it this way. Because we need to adopt this bill, because it's very sensitive, we'll be back on the table at 4:00. No objections? I'd like to ask the camera and the committee to speed up the preparations for this. Now the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures. Committee head Viktor Dmitrovich Schwetz, Committee on Law Enforcement. Please, Victor Dmitrovich. That's how the committee head should explain it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, the chairman of the committee should clarify the position of the committee. We will continue to make decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to improve confiscation procedures has been reviewed on a number of occasions at meetings of the Committee and at plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9208]] Yes, it was adopted on the first reading of October 18, 2011. On December 22, 2011 and January 12, 2012, his second reading discussion was postponed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this Supreme Council decree of December 22, the bill was sent to the Ministry of Justice for official anti-corruption expertise. On February 23, a bill aimed at rereading the second reading. As a result of the meeting of the Conciliation Council on 19 March 2012, the bill was not included in the agenda of the plenary meetings on 20-23 March this year. As a result, the committee planned its work. However, the bill suddenly appeared to the committee in the agenda of the plenary on March 22, 2012. On March 21, at a committee meeting, a question was raised by some members of the committee about the need for its consideration, but the vast majority of the members of the committee did not agree to consider the bill because it needed serious elaboration and harmonization with the main legal administration. The main obstacle to this is the text of the draft amendments to the current Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which are not in line with the text adopted on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which is the one introduced by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9700]] Members of the committee find it inappropriate to consider proposals to amend the current Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code in a situation where Bill No. 9700 is already in the General Legal Office before second reading. In view of the above, the committee requests that Bill No. 9208 be deleted from the agenda of the plenary on March 22, 2012. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, well, I understand. Once again, the committee is motivated by its proposal to withdraw from the draft law by the fact that in the first reading, the Criminal Procedure Code is adopted and, obviously, there is a reflection of this position. And in addition, I'm informing you, Your Honor, that the Chief Legal Authority has practically completed the drafting of the Criminal Procedure Code. All documents will now be duly signed and shipped. Just a minute. and were sent to multiplication so that MPs could get to know each other and we could get to the bottom of this document. Ivan Kirilenko, please. Yuri Prokopchuk, please. For what reason? Out of the way. Then Yuri Carmazin, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u86	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, you know, one of the classics of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism said, "Why do his feathers not lie down?" I'm convinced that this phrase or this expression doesn't work at all today, and that's why, because this bill goes through corruption, it applies to legalization, so that all of Ukraine and those who submitted it, by the way, was passed by a group of members of the People's Party of the Regions, precisely on stolen cars, where the minister of justice is driving today, imagine, Lavrinovich, that's what this bill is now trying to legitimize. At first, Julia Timoshenko, Lucenka, reportedly for 40,000, is planted, and they want to legalize everything stolen and make an offshore in Ukraine. You can't accept this bill in any way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the committee is proposing that it be removed from consideration as a whole document of the Criminal Procedure Code. Please. No, it's off. Please, Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u88	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, of course, is nowhere to be found. We need to figure out who pushed him, now there's no chart, you know, in spite of the Rules he's now listed here. There's nothing to vote for, even though I made proposals here. Keep going. You obviously don't know Vladimir Mikhailovich, and I want you to know that out of the 3,000 998 amendments that the national MPs made to the Criminal Procedure Code, only 131 were considered in the committee. In this way, simply without considering all the other amendments, this document, with the permission to say, was sent to the General Legal Office. There's never been such a thing in the Supreme Council before, Vladimir Mikhailovich. So take your time to spend the public spending on printing the project because the proposals were simply not considered. Why, then, does the Chief Legal Authority evaluate? Just the position of first reading? I'm asking you to intervene immediately and find out what's going on with the Criminals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u89	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u90	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! The faction of the Party of the Regions fully supports the proposal and proposal of the Head of the Committee on Legislative Security in view of the fact that this law must be rejected and voted out, and we support it, the Code of Criminal Procedure in second reading and in general, and to put it into effect as soon as possible after the legal office of the Supreme Council has given it to the Chamber. Therefore, this call for support for the second reading of the Committee by the faction of the Party of the Regions supports and encourages the House to listen carefully and to reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, we will discuss the Criminal Procedure Code when it is in the session room. I respond to the comments, the warnings that have been made. Unlike some committee members, I worry every day that I'm working on the Criminal Procedure Code. And I have to tell you that the committee voted, I'll tell you. As he voted, another question was already raised, and he sent it to the General Legal Office. Chief Legal Authority. Please! The principal legal authorities have worked out their comments on pages 63. And it worked with the prosecutor's office, other law enforcement agencies, and with the Ukrainian President's Administration, it would logically be for the committee to take this note and hold another meeting and say which of these proposals should be taken into account and from which it is justified to refuse, otherwise we will do so directly in the session room. That's why I'm asking you! In order for the committee to take the work of the Chief Legal Authority, he generalized the proposals on the basis of the meetings held daily at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I have to say that more than 10 lawyers of the Supreme Council's apparatus were working on this document. And all the problems that are, Yuri Anatolyevich, you can solve on the committee. Dear colleagues, now with regard to this bill. The chairman of the committee and the committee propose to postpone consideration of the matter and return to it after, if necessary, the adoption of the CPC. So I'm voting on a motion to postpone consideration of the draft law. [[Registration number 9208]] [[11:10:39]] For 264 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask that we do this to you now. We discussed the draft decree to elect a member of the committee of the National MP, Biláš Boris Fedorović, and then we considered Bill 9476, which we were unable to consider yesterday. [[by Sergey Teryohin]] Is there no objection? Committee head Vladimir Makeenko, please. This is draft regulation 10235.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u92	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 21 March 2012, the Committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilash Boris Fedorović, a member of the Party of the Regions, on his election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations. The statement by the Ukrainian national deputy agrees with the leadership of the Party of the Regions. Taking into account that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has not been fully used, the Committee has taken a decision to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Bilas Boris Fedorovic and to submit a statement to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to the Ukrainian National Deputies. The members of the committee have an appropriate draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support it. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u93	And please take Talishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u94	Talishev's statement did not come to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u95	I'd like to ask the national deputy Talishev to determine which committee he plans to work on and make an appropriate request to the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, I am putting to the vote the draft Resolution on Amendments to the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and Election of the Head of the First Deputy, Deputy Head, Secretariat, members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council on Privatization". [[on Bilaš Boris Fedorović, namely: election of him as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations]] Registration number 10235. Please vote. [[11:13:34]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of electronic money and the prevention of the creation of financial pyramids. [[Registration number 9476]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. You'll report a little more, it's no big deal. [[11:14:09]] For 216 Decision taken. The reporter is Sergey Anatolyovich Teryohin. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u96	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, allow me to bring to your attention the draft Law on Electronic Money and Prevention of the Creation of Financial Pyramids. The law, on the one hand, is technical, but on the other hand, is incredibly important for the preservation of social tranquillity. Let me remind you of the history of the problem. In 1988, the Labean company appeared in Rostov, and note that they offered a thousand annuals for the production of New Zealand oil. When people came for their first income, there was a sign on the company's front door that said, "The name of the firm read from the end." Thus, for the first time, an example of a financial pyramid in the Soviet Union was identified. Now, let's talk about MMM. Older people remember Leona Dovekov in 1992. MMM exchanged money for its shares, and in 1993 its sales value exceeded the purchase price of a thousand percent. But by 1994, the pyramid had collapsed, some 2 million people had suffered about $5 billion, and 56 people had killed themselves. In Ukraine, it was almost the same thing that the Chinese remember the Mercury farm at the Olympic Stadium, which promised 7,000,820 years old. The result was 30,000 investors. The Center, by the way, for the divorce of thieves, excuse me, was the Donetsk and Dnipropetrov regions, where the ZAO Ukrainian House Selenga, the Oberig Pension Fund, operated. They stole 12 trillion carbs, that's about 1.2 billion dollars at that rate, 300,000 investors suffered. There's an interesting story about "The Obstacles," the founders of which are also the national MPs of today's vocation, and the Kiev football functionaries, and so on. So we have drafted a bill that regulates the status of financial pyramids in order to prejudice the creation of financial pyramids. But as they move to virtual space, to the Internet, and use not ordinary money, surrogates such as electronic money are also proposed for the first time in legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u97	Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u98	e-money status. The Cabinet of Ministers supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading, taking into account the comments. The National Bank made its comments, not on financial pyramids, but on electronic money. We had a discussion on what Mr. Karakai will say on the committee. And in view of the need to take into account the greatest comments made by Kabmin and the National Bank, the committee suggested that the law be corrected for rereading, but not for the author, but for the committee. I don't have personal ambitions, we need to save the peace of our people, not fight for authorship. I'd like to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u99	Thank you, too. A national MP, Karakai, will speak from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u100	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered the draft bill at its meeting and, unfortunately, the committee had to make a decision to re-read the bill for committee work. Such a decision is based on the substantive observations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the National Bank. The committee is confident that by working together we will be able to develop it and protect our citizens from another MMF. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this statement. Names of the national MPs, please. Alexander Steshenko, Faction of the Fatherland. Surrenders the right to speak to Sergei Teryochin. The next one will be George Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, in the absence of time, I did not mention what was happening in Ukraine on this occasion. I remind you that in 1993 the Cabinet of Ministers passed the decree on trusts. I did. It was introduced by Mr. Vasiliev of the Holding Foundation. I acted on behalf of Mineconomy strongly against it and got caught up in it by Kuchma. The decree was passed, but three years later it was cancelled here in the hall. And then a decision was made on my coauthorship to ban trusts. But this plague came out, and a mortgage came in. The Internet, I apologize and there are new methods of trusts, let's say, car mortgage pyramids like AICE and Autoplan or Forex, which are now used for frequent use in order not to go into an international financial market, but sitting on the other side of just a hired broker who steals your money. Among other things, attempts to limit the size of such percentages and to regulate the unfaithful have been met with the strong support of some national MPs. I remind you that a month before the resignation, Mrs. Timoshenko passed a bill here restricting the creation of such pseudo pyramids. Sadly, two months later, he simply disappeared, even from the Supreme Council base. So again, it would be good if we were to adjust this activity and, above all, protect our people. Because no one will give them the money they lost and they don't even fall under the deposit guarantee fund. That's why I'm asking you to support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u103	Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the national MP Teryochin for doing a colossal job. He did a huge job by proposing changes to dozens of normative acts and trying, in fact, to do, instead of the government of Ukraine, deal with the European community. In particular, on partnership and cooperation between Ukraine and European co-operation, and their member states. Where we should rationally harmonize our internal legislation with EU directives. And in this regard, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directives No 12 of 2000; from 12 March 2000 on the establishment and introduction of credit institutions and other EU Directive 46th of 2000; from 18 September 2000 on the establishment and operation of institutions that carry out e-accounting and prudential supervision. In view of this, it is obvious that we should have had the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on hand today before considering this bill because, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, State policy in all spheres of social life is provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; we had to conclude and the National Bank of Ukraine because, in accordance with article 55 of the Law on Nitzbank, the main objective of it is the stability of the banking system. And I want to say that it's absolutely right, maybe I've made up my mind and Sergey Terroquin, and the committee, he's even made these conclusions now, thank you, I've studied them, absolutely the right decision for the committee to consider this, and so are we.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u105	Thank you. Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the MP's "For the Future Reforms" group on the legislative initiative that just took off, wants to mark the following. Clearly, the question raised is worth paying attention to. Of course, the problem, particularly with the proliferation or continuation, in our view, of the criminal activities of companies such as MMM in Ukraine, is worth the attention. Of course, there must be a barrier to the creation of financial pyramids, either by involving this electronic money or without it. But one thing is surprising is why we want to put two things in the same document that are incompatible with each other: on the one hand, obstacles to creation. And, on the other hand, how about settling a relationship right in front of the electronic money? Why? Why does the bill provide for amendments to the Ukrainian Penal Code for those who create pyramids, and it does not place any criminal responsibility at all on the part of those who create these pyramids, who distribute this information, which involves innocent others? It's a network part, it's a network marketing. Next question. It is not clear why we do not refer to the changes to the Advertising Law at all. Why aren't we doing all this? And another observation. To date, the National Bank of Ukraine has expressed its comments in Opinion No.18119, and so forth, 15304, which says, "Dear friends, if electronic money is introduced in this country, like the United States, but there is no one to control it in Ukraine." And unfortunately, maybe this is the first step in getting the National Bank to be deprived of the right to regulate its first priority -- to ensure the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit. So let's put this bill to work, work on the committee. It's two different votes, and then we vote. We'll support him for the redrafting, we won't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the committee suggests. Oh, I'm sorry. Jaroslav Suhi. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any doubt in this session room. The current nature of the subject, as well as the logic of the bill, is extremely balanced and timely. Marjorie deputies will confirm in both the third and the fourth, and in previous convocations, how much moral suffering, and how much material loss are experienced by people who believe. You know how scary that is. There's an advertisement on the pages of public newspapers, online dating, and electronic media. People are used to trusting the media, and it turns out to be another lie. Clearly, then, the topic raised by counterpart Teryochin today in the sessional room in this bill is extremely topical and important. Why did I ask for my word? We should not forget that these losses are the loss of the material well-being of our people, this is another blow to the strategy of combating poverty, because man is very often without a piece of bread at all as a result of such an affair. In view of what Kabmin is thinking, he may send a working committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u109	Do you have everyone? Please finish. All of it. Dear colleagues! The committee suggests that a bill be sent to the committee for re-reading. The main scientific and expert office made a number of remarks to the bill. So this is the first way. I'm going to put a motion for acceptance on the ground. In case the Supreme Council doesn't support it, the second sentence is to refer to re-reading to the committee. No objections? The proposal to adopt a draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of electronic money and the prevention of the creation of financial pyramids is put to the vote. [[9476]] [[11:27:14]] For 122 The decision is not taken. I'm betting on a second proposal to put the bill to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. [[11:27:37]] For-140. The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions. Region Party 2, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 71, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 19, communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 4. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to make a decision on the election. We have more than 21 draft decrees on this subject and separately on the appointment of out-of-order local elections of the Ohtyr city head. [[Ochtyr’s City Council]] The committee considered it. Allow me to proceed with your decision. There is a vote on the proposal for the selection of Dubovic's head in turn. [[Dubovitsky village council of the Krulevetsky district of the Sutsk district]] [[10217 - Registration Number]] [[11:28:52]] For 297 Decision taken. A Scythian village head. [[Skytkow village council of the Lipovecki district of Vinnitsk Region]] [[10217-1]] Please vote. [[11:29:18]] For 297 Decision Adopted Kumarov village head. [[Kumarov village council of the Mikolai district of Pervomay]] [[10217-2]] [[11:29:42]] For 308. Decision taken. The Tekchan village head. [[Tekuchan village council of the Cherkas region]] [[10217-3]] [[11:30:07]] For 296 Decision taken. Mliyev village head. [[Mliyivska Rural Council of the Cherkas region]] [[1027-4]] [[11:30:31]] For 303 Decision taken. Ivano-Blebathen village head. [[Ivano-Blacosten Rural Council of the Kirovograd Region of Kirovograd]] [[10217-5]] [[11:30:58]] For 316 Decision taken. It's a cotiurinian village head. [[Cotyurinian Rural Council of Krasiliv district of Hmelnitsk district]] [[10217-6]] [[11:31:23]] For 298 Decision taken. Vorubian village head, 10217-7. [[Vorubian Rural Council of the district of Polonian Hmelnitsk]] [[11:31:46]] For 297 Decision taken. Günow’s Rural Head [[Güniv Rural Council of the Primorski District of Zaporozhye Region]] [[11:32:10]] For 304 Decision taken. Marianov village head, 10217-9. [[Marianov village council of Bobrinecki district of Kirovograd district]] [[11:32:36]] For 304 Decision taken. Kosenian village head, 10217-10. [[Kosovo Rural Council of Novograd Wolin District of Žitomir Region]] [[11:33:02]] For-300 Decision taken. Acid Head, 10217-11. [[Kyslova Rural Council of the Kupyan district of Kharkiv Region]] [[11:33:26]] For 295 Decision taken. Jukotin village head, 10217-12. [[Jukotin Village Council of the District of Johno-Frankiv Region]] [[11:33:52]] For 303 Decision taken. Augustus village head, 10217-13. [[Augustus Rural Council of the Kozov district of Ternopil district]] [[11:34:18]] For 297 Decision taken. Shevchenkovsky Rural Head, 10217-14 [[Shevchenkovsky Village Council of the Odessa Region]] [[11:34:42]] For 306 Decision taken. An old-school village head, 10217-15. [[Old Silesia Rural Council of the Lugin district of Žitomir Region]] [[11:35:07]] For 299 Decision taken. ZahypiI village head, 10217-16. [[Zhaipil Village Council of the District of Johno-Frankiv Region]] [[11:35:32]] For 297 Decision taken. Zaliski village head, 10217-17. [[Zalyst Rural Council of the Wartni district of Volin Region]] [[11:35:56]] For 290 Decision taken. Kegichov village head, 10217-18. [[Kegichiv village council of Khegichiv district of Kharkiv region]] [[11:36:24]] For 294 Decision taken. Pocathilian village head. [[Kotilovív village council of Kharkiv district of Kharkiv region]] 10217-19. [[11:36:50]] For 298 Decision taken. Novoazov city head. [[Nouveau Town Council, Nouveau region of Donetsk Region]] 10217-20. [[11:37:15]] For 299 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I now propose to you the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of Ohtyr City Head. [[Ochtyr City Council of the Suma Region]] In connection with the suspension of the terms of the Ochtyr city head of Kasenenka and in accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part of article 14, part one and part five, of article 15, articles 60, 61 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime, Local Councils and Rural, Village, Urban Heads, the Supreme Council decrees: to appoint the Ochtyr city head for Sunday, May 27, 2012. [[Ochtyr City Council of the Suma Region]] [[Ochtyr City Council of the Suma Region]] Please, Danilenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u110	Dear National Deputies! Ohtirchan! Your attention is on the proposed draft of the Supreme Council Order for the holding of the extraordinary election of the Ohtyr City Head of the City City Council of the Suma Region. He does not have a city head in Ohtirka since April 15, 2011. In this regard, the Ohttir Council has just disturbed the Supreme Council’s concerns about the appointment of out - of - turn city heads and has asked the Supreme Council to accept the decision. That's why I'm talking to the national MPs today, because there's quite a lot of feedback from entrepreneurs, from city dwellers about the fact that the ostriches already want to identify themselves and choose their new head to protect their rights. The adoption of this decree will still allow the people to exercise their right to vote for the city's head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. Please, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u112	Vladimir Karpuk. We support, of course, the draft decree on the conduct of the successive election of the ochtyr head. But I want to remind you that just 349 years ago, Galileo Galileo gave up his views. If we were to do one "mahovnik" every day, as we deny our views, we could celebrate such a Jubilee every day. Because yesterday, when it came to the issue of the election of a black city head, we heard that formal arguments were also found, but we listened to a very large tirade that we needed to save money and to hold these elections at the same time as the elections to parliament. So now we're going to see how things are changing depending on how convenient it is for one political force or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. You had the right to speak from the faction, and now no one has? What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u114	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We have deep respect for both Galileo and Einstein and other great people, and we read and know them. But we're listening to the public today. And the public says there are so many problems in the city if we start the mechanism right now, that the authorities will start running with flyers, at a rally, we won't get out of the dirt, then we'll get new elections in October. But let the authorities put order in the city, they say, don't waste, the public is calling out to us. Consider it a penny. In October, two weddings will be held, both in Parliament and in the elections of local authorities. And now the machine is built, the mechanism of power is in place, to let the authorities deal with the city's life support. All you have to do is glue the flyers to the rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u115	Dear National Deputies! Who, who? No, it's already been from. Please, Gordien. Danielenko was the reporter, he was the author of the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I would like to draw your attention to the violation of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine, which clearly defines the procedure for the election of the head, which the Secretary of the Council can perform. Not only has the situation not stabilized there but the social issues discussed by the previous speaker has been met but the question has already been raised about the illegal position of the secretary in that council. I would also like to point out that if we do not take this decision today, it may vote in the next session in accordance with the Rules. And we just don't have enough days to write it down on October 28, next year. Question one. To carry out the Supreme Council and, above all, the constitutional duty is to appoint elections in this territorial community. This is what people ask, and we must do it and comply with Ukraine’s law. All of it. That's why I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u117	Dear National MPs, the draft Order on the Assignment of the Elections of the Ohtyr City Head of the City Council of the Sumsk Region is in favour of the vote. Registration number 10115. Please vote. [[11:43:39]] For-154 The decision is not taken. Please, by the factions. Regional Party 4, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 66, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 22, communists – 24, People's Party – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 1. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to consider revoking the draft laws on regulation of evaluation activities in Ukraine. Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u118	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! This is a procedural issue that the Rules require. At the beginning of this call, two bills were registered to Parliament, one of which was an alternative, which had lost its relevance, especially since many issues were addressed by the adoption of the Privatisation Act, the State Privatisation Programme and the Holding Fund. The MPs have revoked these laws, but the procedure requires a committee and parliament decision because they have been included in the agenda. So I ask you to support the committee's decision to repeal draft laws 4487 and 4487-1. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the drafters of the bill have asked the Supreme Council to withdraw these bills. But since they've been in order all day, we need to make a decision of the Supreme Council. The proposal to withdraw draft evaluation activity laws in Ukraine is therefore put to the vote. [[Registration numbers 4487 and 4487-1]] Let us make a decision that will be made by appropriate decrees. Please vote. [[11:45:39]] For the 320. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the inclusion of several bills in the agenda, namely: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Specialities in Administrative Offences in the Final Part of the European Championship 2012 from Football in Ukraine. [[on the handling of matters in the sports area]] [[Registration number 10177]] I'll bet you a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this project. Please vote. [[11:46:27]] For 282 Decision taken. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the decision to prohibit entry into Ukraine. [[Registration number 10205]] This is related to Euro -2012. Please vote. [[11:46:59]] For 244 Decision taken. And with regard to the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law amending article 39 of the Law on Telecommunications. [[on the fundamentals of national security in telecommunications]] [[Registration number 10229]] Please vote. [[11:47:32]] For 228 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now we need to consider re-inclusion in the agenda of the day session of the draft decree marking the 130th anniversary of the birth of Metropolitan Ilario, we agreed on this yesterday. [[John Ivanovich Fire]] Dear colleagues, I would ask that we support this proposal to return to the consideration of the inclusion in the agenda of the agenda of the 130-year decree since the birth of Metropolitan Ilario. [[John Ivanovich Fire]] [[Registration number 10003]] I would like to vote on the motion to return to the consideration of the question Please vote. [[11:48:33]] For 345. We're back. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft regulation. Please vote. [[11:48:55]] For 338 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now consider a series of decrees to honor prominent people and memorable dates. So let's say that if you don't have any objections, I'm going to put it to a vote because they've already gone through the sieve when they're included in the agenda, namely, this is a draft decree to mark the 950th anniversary of the establishment of the city of Tisminic of the Ivano-Frankow region. What's the big deal? Who insists on the performance? None. I'm betting on a draft adoption order as a decree, registration number 9371. Please vote. Author Vasil Amazing and Committee of Culture and Spirituality. [[11:49:55]] For 373 Decision taken. I'm betting on a motion for a motion to adopt a decree marking the 125th anniversary of the birth of twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, one of the organizers of the guerrilla movement in Ukraine during the Great War of Homeland Kovpak Sidor Artemovich. No objections? Please vote. Registration number 9639. Author Vladimir Danilenko, I stress in particular. [[11:50:29]] For 309 Decision taken. Now, the draft decree to mark the 110th anniversary of the birth of the warlord, twice the Hero of the Soviet Union, Marshall of the Soviet Union, Moskalenko Semenović. Author of the project Demyanchuk Victoria Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote on the motion for adoption of Decree, registration number 9648. Please vote. [[11:51:10]] For 329 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now the draft decree marking the 190th anniversary of Yuri Scribblek's birth, the classic of Ukrainian carving. The author of the project is Vasil Amazing. The committee made a positive decision. No objections? Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u120	Dear national MPs, our constituents! I think there's just an opportunity, and I need you to say a few words about this great man, the Ukrainian, to say the least. He's the founder. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm going to say this because there's not enough knowledge of this person, and there's no need to make noise for God's sake, it's not a formal question. Yuri Skrbljak, from the upper village of Yavorova, is the famous absolute village, which became the capital of the Ukrainian sculpture. He is the founder of an entirely new kind of world art and world painting, a completely new style. Listen, don't cry, for God's sake, you don't know all this. [[B in m in s a l in]] Because this man’s school is truly unique, he has students. And we will now vote for the second representative of this school from the village of Yavorov. Because of this, I am convinced that we should vote for him and mark him. This is indeed a unique phenomenon in the world’s art. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u121	Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, this is, indeed, a remarkable artist who has initiated a whole course in art, which is a self-restraint, which is Ukrainian, and it represents our country around the world. He is also the inventor of a carpenter’s presses that are being used worldwide. And I think this person is worth supporting, and it's worth celebrating his anniversary. Thank you for your attention. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a decree to mark the 190th anniversary of the birth of Yuri Scribljak, a classic of Ukrainian sculpture. [[Registration number 9666]] Please vote. [[11:53:44]] For 341 Decision taken. Next. The draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of Yuri Korpanyuk, the well-deserved master of folk creativity. [[Registration number 9667]] He's just been talked about. The author of the project is Vasil Zdravnov. No objections? I'm betting on the vote on decree 9667. Please vote. [[11:54:21]] For 342 Decision taken. The Bill on the 110th anniversary of Mother Heroin's birth, which raised 48 children of Alexandra Avramivne Derevsky. The author of the draft decree, Vladimir Danilenko, a faction of Communists. No warning on the vote? I'm betting on the vote on the adoption of the order. Registration number 9701. Please vote. [[11:55:02]] For 367 I'll take the order. Thank you. Now, dear colleagues, the draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of Patriarch Joseph Blind (Josip Kobernick-Dickowski) (registration number 10002). We're on it yesterday. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute! Yuri Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u124	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! We need to be with you for the future for today — will we support the rehabilitation of collaborationism or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Because Joseph the Blind is a very complex figure and, on the one hand, he was persecuted by the Stalin regime, but, on the other hand, he cooperated with the occupying German authorities, and he was one of the two spiritual leaders of collaborationism. We must determine in principle whether we support or not collaborationism. For example, I have decided on this issue for myself long ago: I cannot support collaborationism in all its forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u125	Please, Jaroslav Suhi. Wait a minute! Well, one at a time, let's figure it out. Then Vladimir Yavorowski. Who will be.? Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, you don't have to look for reasons where they don't exist. On January 12, 1963, the Supreme Council of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics decided to release Joseph Blind from prison. He was arrested on April 11, 1944. What collaborator? He is a witness to my faith, for there is no blood on his hands as a type of military resistance. He was punished along with the clergy of all the denominations there, in concentration camps. The Supreme Council of the Soviet Union has decided to release, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Independent must decide on 120 years of this man's memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u127	Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u128	I'm from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, well, yesterday we discussed this issue, made a decision. Now the discussion has begun again! Please, Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u130	Vladimir Yavorowski, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u131	We have to go to work, and everything will be fine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u132	I'm just a committee on behalf of you. Excuse me, Baldiriev was once a member of our committee, and he knows very well that the committee -- what Suhi said -- supports the committee by a hundred percent. We didn't even expect that kind of support. Indeed, this man does not have blood on his hands. How can you afford a national MP, if you'll excuse me, to carry such nonsense to the air completely unpunished?Oh, my God! Because of this, I ask the majority: we have already supported the inclusion of this issue. Once again, this is a spiritual man, one of the builders of the Ukrainian State, in prison and in Soviet camps, who was also arrested in Poland. And today, all of a sudden, some people are allowing themselves to talk such inhospitable fools that fall out of the mouth of a national MP! Because of this, I'm asking the majority very much: let's vote -- and put everything in place, that's our duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I must say. If. Wait a minute! One minute, they'll all be out in a minute! The more we speak for, the less the result. Consider this. Please, Viacheslav Ki. Who's there? Viacheslav Kirilenko, then the Wooden One.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u134	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!".. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! There are experts on co-operationism, so it would certainly be good for them to think of a joint parade, for example, in the city of Brest in 1939 of Soviet troops and Hitler’s troops, which is such a historic fact that it is impossible to erase. So let's not blame the co-operationism of people who have put their faith through all regimes: through the Polish regime, through the German occupation regime, through the Soviet occupation regime. They simply believed in God, believed in Ukraine. Hence, the present tribute of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to commemorate the anniversary of the birth of Joseph the Blind, who dedicated his entire life to the service of the Ukrainian people, buried here in the city of Lviv, in the council of Saint George, and deserves to be remembered by his fellow countrymen at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u135	Wooden, please. Then there's Zarubinsky. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u136	Dear National Deputies, Master Blind, the man of the highest moral form, he never bowed his head to the orders of the then Bolshevik regime. The life path of Cardinal Blind is the path of an impenetrable, capable peasant son, who, with his abilities, his extremely solidness and his industriousness, has mastered unimaginable knowledge not only in theology but also in philosophy, art and language. With the unbreakable strength of the patriarch, the Blind One held 18 - year imprisonment in seventeen camps in Siberia and Morduya. The People's Deputies of the Faction "BUT" – "Fatherland" unanimously support this decision and we ask everyone to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u137	Oleg Zarubinski, please. Then there's Kzarkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u138	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, well, it's a strange argument that if a person, if a person is a contradiction, he is not outstanding. In large numbers, all outstanding people are contradictory because they are indisputable people. Clearly, the Patriarch the Blind is an inexorable person, an unusual person, and deserves to be honored by his memory. And in view of the fact that the word "colaborationism" is used all the time, I would recommend that it be used in a political and scientific way. If you come out of the fact that collaboration was both economic and political and domestic and military, then the collaborators, if you'll excuse me, were very many people, including people who were forced to work in enterprises in occupied territory, because those enterprises that were providing life support were torn down when the Red Army left, and you know it, it was in Kiev. Therefore, we need to be more tolerant of those who have suffered the tragedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u139	National MP of Kzarykov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u140	Well, it's really hard to use the phrase "collaborationists." For all normal people, for veterans, for those whose grandfathers fought, they are the helpers of the fascists. Direct supporters of the fascists, who were sent to the Hitlerese army to train the chaplains and serve directly under the regime. [[B in m in s a l in]] As for the Soviet heritage, you will recall that Lenin joined 30 percent of the territories in Ukraine, which you hated with Stalin another 20 percent, and then Khrushchev also donated Crimea. That's why you guys would be walking around with your bare ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u141	Turn off the microphone! Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote a draft decree on the 120th anniversary of Patriarch Joseph Blind's birthday. [[Registration number 10002]] Please vote. [[12:02:58]] For 361 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there is. Wait a minute! There is a suggestion that we now vote on all these draft regulations and then announce a recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions? Please vote on the factions. Region Party – 179, "BUT – Fatherland" – 92, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 4, Communists – 0, "The People's Party" – 19, "Reforms for the Future" – 19, non-factional – 8. Now for the draft decree marking 135th anniversary of the birth of Gnat Hotkević. [[Registration number 10027]] I'm betting on the vote on the decision. Please vote. [[12:03:55]] For 368 Decision taken. A draft decree marking the 70th anniversary of Kerchi and Sevastopol's heroic defense against German-Fashistic invaders in 1942. [[Registration number 10035]] I'm betting on the vote on the decision. Please vote. [[12:04:24]] For 368 A decision has been made. It's a draft decree marking the 140th birthday of Bogdan Lepko. Yesterday we discussed this figure. Registration number 10044. I'll bet you a vote on the adoption of the decree. [[Registration number 10044]] Please vote. [[12:04:55]] For 348 I'll take the order. Draft decree on the 120th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Polish writer, artist Bruno Schulz. Registration number 10127. Again, yesterday, we discussed the matter in detail. I'm betting on the vote on the decision. Please vote. [[12:05:31]] For 346 Decision taken. Draft Decision marking the 125th anniversary of Alexander Archippence. [[Registration number 10165]] I'm betting on a motion for a decision. [[12:06:06]] For 340. I'll take the order. And the draft decree to mark the 360th anniversary of the Battle of Batog. [[Registration number 10166]] I'm betting on a motion for a decision. The author is Vladimir Yavorowski. The authors are all famous, they were speaking yesterday. [[12:06:40]] For 375 Decision taken. And the draft decree is a draft decree to mark the Jubilee of Zacarpathian writers John Chenday and Peter Skunz. [[Registration number 10167]] Again yesterday, we discussed the matter. I am betting on a motion for a decision, especially that of Stanislav Arzvitin. [[12:07:14]] For 370. I'll take the order. Vladimir Danilenko, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u142	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! I just want to go ahead with the 9639 stenography date and replace the 7th of June with the 26th of May.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u143	What's the draft resolution, registration number?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u144	9639, Kovpak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u145	963. One minute, I'll find it. 9639, let's see what this is about. One more time, please. Yeah, I found it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u146	From "June 7" to "May 26" -- the exact data, we've turned it all over.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u147	All right, dear fellows, the committee recommends this, I would like to ask that we vote for this proposal to the committee, no. Please, Yavorowski, microphone. Is that what this is about?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u148	The committee supports this clarification, indeed it is very appropriate. At the same time, I would like to thank you for not taking the floor again. Today, we have demonstrated a truly normal approach to those unique historical figures that are indeed the beauty of both Ukrainian history and Ukrainian people, Ukrainian beings. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, there is a request that we conduct a small complement through the transcript. We tabled this bill on Chernobyl, its marking of the Jubilee, to make one more point, to secure the financing of the renovation and restoration work of the Sixteenth Museum at Kiev, Alesia Hotchar Street, 33rd. If we can't vote now, then we'll add. And the second. I would suggest putting Ilario Fire with this block today, and we're going to be completely off these outstanding dates. I don't think it's some kind of violation that's going to happen, let's say. Tomorrow we can consider, it would be a good day.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u149	No, it's not. So at 16 o'clock, if there's no objection, we're going to set Fire to keep the Rules. And with regard to clarifying the date "June 7" on "May 26" I ask you to vote for it. Before the decree of clarification, registration number 9639. Please vote. Because at the morning session, we've put it into the agenda, we can only do it in the evening, you know. [[12:10:03]] For 348 Decision taken. I ask you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich, give me that clarification, and we will be considering the ruling on Firenko and we will be voting on that clarification. No objections then? Dear colleagues, there is a break of up to 12 hours 42 minutes. After the break, we will consider the question of the election of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u150	Yes, distinguished national deputies, please come into the session room, and we will continue our meeting. I'm announcing the question of the election of judges. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, Mr. Marcinkevich Anatoly Mikolaiovich. Anatoly Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u151	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Under part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judicial office with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of that Act, and examined the referral of citizens, public organisations, enterprises, institutions and organizations of all forms of property, public authorities and local self-government authorities to the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who had reached the Higher Qualification Commission of Ukraine at the time of the Commission's consideration of the question of recommending them to serve as judges without delay. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I submit a decision to the Higher Qualifications Commission of Ukraine on the recommendation of candidates for the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis. The following draft regulations are proposed for your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u152	9544-2, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u153	Yes. Select Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich to serve as Judge of the Ravensz City Court of the Plains Region on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u154	Please provide more information here because the references were appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u155	With regard to Timothy, I would like to report that Timothy was addressed by the Sulkovsky People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u156	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u157	Any obstacles that we might have in recommending to the committee. There are no obstacles to this today, because there are no violations of the law in Timothy's actions by the authorities of the pretrial investigation and the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, it's the Posatnov's project to elect a judge. [[Registration number 9544-2]] Select Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich to serve as Judge of the Ravensz City Court of the Plains Region on an uninterrupted basis. Please vote. [[12:44:36]] For-29 The decision is not taken. Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u159	Volodymyr Mikhailovich, the fact is that Mr. Sulkovsky has been torpedoing this judge since 2006. And I've even got documents on my hands that keep denying all this slander about this judge. After all, we have a committee and I think Mr. Chechetov should be dismissed as there is a committee decision as a recommendation by the rapporteur. And that kind of "play in the dark" means that there's just some political squabble going on. It's enough for one MP to say something, because he's got some cases against this judge, maybe he didn't follow his orders, or his comrade did, and we're just "falling out" all of these judges. So I would have asked you not to look at these things formally, but normally. There's a judge, listen to this judge right now, what we're in a hurry for, he's here in the hall, let him say his own words.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u160	Dear colleagues. One minute, I can see. Mr. Ivan Aleksandrovitch, if a decision is made by a judge, a question arises, then the deputy reports and we invite the judge to answer. And any deputy who has violated the other question has the right to ask the judge a question, and he has to answer it. So in this case, when there were no objections before the vote, I did not invite a judge to the microphone. So, dear colleagues, if you have any questions. Please, Timothy by the microphone. What questions do you have, please? Please take the seat of the committee. Any questions? Alexander Bondar. Then Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u161	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you have just confirmed the court's approval procedure. If there is a denial or a question to a judge, they reason and ask the judge. No question, no objection. Let them argue that those who allow the mask to vote against it. Why are they against this judge? We understand that position. What's the point of looking at judges if there's no argument against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u162	Vladimir Yavorowski. Then Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u163	Honorable colleagues, honorary judges, and candidates for the office of permanent judges! I witnessed that the judge in question had been moved to do so. I really wanted to know some details. I have learned many of them, and I also know of the head of the court from whom there is conflict with Sulkovsky. Please, if you can, you can see for yourself, there might be a situation that you're not going to be in court right now, which is why you're hiding nothing. If you could just tell us, please, what's the big deal, why are they blocking your candidacy like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u164	Just a minute. Alexander Efraemov. Then we'll give everyone the right to speak. Please. Then Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, questions have been raised in this case. Our colleague, Sulkovsky, last time before the candidature, spoke of all the questions before the judge. And after that, we did not vote with you for his appointment. It wasn't the first time. Sulkovsky's not in the room right now, you know he had surgery. We have therefore not received the answers to those questions so far, and therefore we do not vote in favour of the candidature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u166	Yuri Gnatkevich. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues! I'm, well, pretty good, because I'm a peer myself, and I'm responsible for this for two calls for a part of the Plain area, and I know a little bit that there's a serious conflict, and it's the issue of the conflict between Timothy and the judge of the City Court of Denisuk. This conflict has escalated into caring for newspapers, but that doesn't mean that the bad guy is Timothy, but the good guy is Denisuk. Next. I wonder who the head of the court is. You ask Karmazin, you ask Labunski, finally ask Schustik, members of the committee that were on the committee. They're grabbing their heads about this judge. Now. Last time, he was against Matsuk. Please tell me, and if the governor is against the judge, what does it mean that the governor is good and the judge is bad? Yavorowski, by the way, said last time, "Who's leading him, who's leading him like this, this young judge?" So I want to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u168	Yes, from the Yuri Carmazin Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u169	George Carmazin, first deputy head of the Justice Committee. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! I now address those who have not voted. Our committee was discussing the issue of Timothy, and our committee was also considering a matter that arose before the Plain City Court. Moreover, according to the decision of the Committee of the Three People’s Deputies, the secretary’s staff went to Equine and studied the situation. We've been in a terrible situation, and I'm confirming the words of Gnatkewicz, a national deputy, an experienced national MP who knows the state of affairs in the Plains. We went there, we studied the situation, it was very mixed. And this young man got hooked up because he didn't want to do certain things. There are no professional questions about him. The commission was absolutely correct in recommending it, there is no reason not to recommend it, and there is no reason not to choose it. As a result, we must reject ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u170	Yes, Alexander Jaroslavovich, what can you say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u171	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Because of my principled position, since I did not follow illegal orders from the head of the court, my life was ruined, my family. All the charges against me in this room are totally groundless. I'm secondly recommended by the Higher Qualifying Commission, the High Council of Justice. I don't have any questions. The committee also recommended that I choose a judge on an untimely basis. The point is, one of the deputies said, "you'll never be a judge because you didn't listen to how to make decisions." The decisions I made were legal, and no one was accused. And the whole court is looking at me, looking at the whole area. How can judges continue to work with them if they are dealt with in this way? Is it possible for all to follow instructions from the illegal heads of courts associated with the deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u172	I'm not getting involved, I'm telling the truth! [[B in m in s a l in]] Today, a very large festival is the Forty Saints. I am clean before God, and I say. God is my judge. I want you to take me down, that's all. Fair and objective. For God is judge and all. Why, then, go to work as a judge when they make fun of a man for six years? Don't pick, don't fire. I too have a life, and I am a person, and I have a family. They've already ruined my life like that! In five years of my job, I've only got one conviction overturned, one changed. And two decisions have been annulled. No disciplinary responsibility was involved. for the duration of the qualification class. Am I not worthy to be a judge? I don't have any complaints from citizens. I'm sorry, I just don't have any emotions. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u173	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! I think we'll all agree that standing here in front of the hall when your speech is displayed throughout the country is a pretty serious lesson for any human being. And if we are consolidated in the Hall for believing this person, let's let our faction support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u175	Dear colleagues, I bet. Who? I can't see. Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u176	I have a question for the judge. Please tell me how many criminal cases have been committed against you, and on what grounds?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u177	I have no criminal record. It's all slander. All documents are in the Higher Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm giving you information that matters have been broken, and they're closed. Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. There is one duty in the Supreme Council: to sanctify the decisions given to us by the High Qualifying Commission - am I speaking correctly? - judges. I am voting for the election of Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich as Judge of the Ravensz City Court of the Plains Region on an uninterrupted basis. [[Registration number 9544-2]] Please vote. [[12:55:02]] For 323 Decision taken. Draft regulation 10089, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u179	Select Svigunenko Julia Mikolayovna to serve as judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Suma Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u180	No warning? Because it was here.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u181	There were warnings. We checked all the facts, they didn't confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, do you have any warnings? None. I'm betting on the bill of election of the judge: choose Svigunenko Julia Mikolayovna as judge of the Bilopil District Court of the Suma Region on an uninterrupted basis. [[Registration number 10089]] Please vote. [[12:55:58]] For 306 Decision Adopted Project Rule 10089-4, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u183	Select Kirilenko Marina Alexievna to serve as Judge of the Berislav District Court of the Hersonian Region.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, there have been warnings. We went back to the High Qualifications Commission of Judges, and they gave us the answer that there were no circumstances that would prevent Kirilenko's recommendation to be elected judge on an untimely basis. No other warnings? Please, Alexander Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u185	There's a question for the judge. Based on the materials presented to us, of the 323 cases that you will consider. In the 223 cases, I'm sorry, which you've considered, 60 have been returned as qualified upon refusal. What can you say? In fact, every third case you've ruled, well, wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u186	I'm sorry, but the examination of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges was checked that I had 34 sentences cancelled, not 60, but 34, other sentences changed on the grounds that the articles had been amended, 199 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine and in the part where the penalty was imposed, where I had not ruled out other penalties for some persons. That is, not 60 sentences were annulled, but 34.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u187	Anatoly Mikolaiovich, please, your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u188	The commission recommended that the judge, at the time of the hearing, we took these work rates into account, but we also considered that she was currently in the decree, on a leave of absence for the care of a child she cared for herself. Of course it's not a model judge, but I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u189	And it's certainly not a model judge, but she, we've taken all the performance indicators into account, so there's no reason not to recommend it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, I'm putting the bill to the vote. What, what? Alexander Efraemov. Take down the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u191	Respectable colleagues, well, agree, that's not an answer. Each judgement is based on the fate of others. If we make such mistakes that a judge can only be wrong because he is on maternity leave today, that is not an argument for me, with all due respect for the role of our family here. And your answer, it's here, too, well, it's kind of weird. I mean, he's not the best judge, but let's recommend him. Maybe we should train the judges better? Because a person's fate is behind a decision that a judge makes. What are you doing? You'll express your point of view. Are you alone to claim it or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u192	I represent the commission here, and since there is a decision of the commission that recommended this judge, I support this decision of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u193	Valerius Beales, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u194	I have one question for the judge. Please tell me what category of cases you have considered: civil, criminal?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u195	All: civil, criminal, administrative justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u196	All categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u197	I've been looking at all the categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u198	No questions asked. Thank you. Then it's me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u199	Please, you're a pain in the ass. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u200	I have a question for you: what is the percentage of the average in Ukraine that is going back?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u201	I want to let you know that when we made recommendations to this judge, we invited the head of the court, we had a perfect study of the situation in this court at all. Several secretaries were released for the negative work of this judge when she was serving as a judge. So it's not complicated enough. It's not a very simple situation in the court itself, the whole community. At the same time, you're right that this is a high percentage of cancellations that are higher than the average in Ukraine. But the violations were at the beginning of her work. Then, while she was working, she began to work better. So there's some movement in her work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u202	Dear colleagues, let's be clear about making a decision. We have this opportunity. We have already postponed consideration of this issue to the point of Catherine Samuel. Because if we don't make a decision now, you realize we won't make it later. We can either postpone consideration of the question, go back to the study, get more accurate help. If there are cases that have been cancelled, what is the dynamics of the first year of work, the second year and the fifth year of work? If these mistakes are taken into account, there is no problem, I think we will have reason to make the right decision. So I think maybe that's how let me put a proposal to the vote to see the reaction of the hall. Who's in charge of looking at the issue of decision-making right now? If there are 226 votes, then the election of the judge may be put to the vote on an indefinite basis. If not, we will put off so that we can study the matter in detail. Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting the motion to a vote: who's in charge now of considering the election of Kirilenko Marina Alexiyivne as Judge of the Berislav District Court of the Hersonian Region on an uninterrupted basis? Please vote. [[13:02:14]] For-83 The decision is not taken. Therefore, honourable colleagues, petitions and suggestions to the committee and to the Higher Qualifications Committee to study the matter thoroughly, to prepare appropriate materials for the introduction of the National Deputies of Ukraine and the Supreme Council in general. Is there no objection? Please, draft regulation 10232.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u203	Choose judges on an untimely basis: The Yellow District Court of Lugansk Didorenko Angelique Eduardo; Lichakow District Court of Lvova Leño Svetlana Ivanovna; Veselinov District Court of the Tustawsky region Andrija Alexandrovich; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Neporad Oleg Mikolaiovich; The Suvorov district court of Odessa, Alina Snežan Stepanovna; Kharkova Kurgannikov Olen Andriyevna District Court of Cominternov; The Red Farm District Court of Kharkiv Prášću Irina Dmitrovna; The Novotroitsky District Court of the Herson district of Timchenko Olga Vasilovna; Novgorod-Several District Court of the Chernigiv district of Ivashchenka Anatolia Ivanovich; Economic Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Rudovska Inna Anatoliyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, no warning? None. I'm betting on a draft decision on the selection of judges for the adoption of the draft as a decision. [[Registration number 10232]] Please vote. [[13:03:57]] For 330. I'll take the order. Draft regulation 10232-1, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u205	Select Timchenko Bogdan Petrovich to serve as the judge of the court of the Poltava district’s agricultural court on an uninterrupted basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u206	No warning? I'm betting on a motion for a Supreme Council ruling on the election of a judge. [[Registration number 10232-1]] Please vote. [[13:04:38]] For 298 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, allow me to welcome, on your behalf, the judges whom we have just chosen to serve without delay and to wish them faithful service and proper service to the law and to enjoy good health and a calm heart.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u207	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u208	Thank you, too. Dear National Deputies! We need to consider a number of Ukrainian laws that the President of Ukraine has made comments on, i.e. he has applied the veto. The Ukrainian Act on Security Activities, with proposals from the President of Ukraine, is being announced for consideration. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I ask you to vote on this proposal. [[13:05:33]] For 222 Decision taken. Reporter – Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council Yuri Miroshnichenko, co-rapporteur Vasil Gritzak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u209	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council adopted the Act on Protection Activities on 9 February 2012. [[Registration number 4824]] According to the Head of State, the legal institution proposed to suspend the operation of security licenses cannot be supported by the President for such reasons. First. Some reasons for stopping the central executive authority from operating this licence: firstly, it is too general; secondly, it is unfounded; thirdly, granting the central authority of the enforcement authority the right to suspend the operating licence until 30 days after the decision is made provides for more stringent restrictions on economic activity for the subject than when the licence is revoked. The Head of State believes that the introduction of such standards will provide the basis for an unjustified violation of the constitutional rights of operators. Dear colleagues, the President of Ukraine, I ask you, Your Honor, to support the position of the President of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u210	Please, from the committee, Vasil Mikolaiovich Gretzak, head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u211	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection has considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act on Security Activities. [[No. 4824]] It is worth noting that already three times in 06.2010, 14.12.2011 and 02.03.2012, this law was returned to the Committee with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Thus, the President of Ukraine points out that he disagrees with the position proposed in section six, part three, of article 4 of the Law regarding the right of the central executive authority in the field of protection to suspend the operation of a security license. Because he believes that these positions can lead to the introduction of an excessive control tool. The Head of State, secondly, points out that some of the legal grounds for halting the action of the central executive authorities in the field of security and protection licenses are too general. Such factors include: violation of safety conditions in the transport of dangerous valuable goods, violation of the order in which physical measures are applied, and violation of the order in which service dogs are used. The introduction of such standards creates preconditions for the arbitrary treatment of the relevant provisions of the law, and its application by the supervisory authorities varies. And it can also lead to abuse in controlling compliance with licensing conditions. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that part five of article 7 be deleted. The President of Ukraine also stresses that part four of article 6 should be drafted as follows: "The requirements for the construction, construction and technical provision of central observation sites are defined in licensing conditions." The committee reviewed all the president’s comments and agreed with them. Honorable National MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u212	Dear colleagues, let's vote on the amendments. The vote is the 1st amendment by the President of Ukraine. The committee counted it. Please vote. [[13:09:52]] For 249 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the vote of the President of Ukraine's 2nd amendment. The committee counted it. I'd like her to vote. [[13:10:12]] For 239. Correction accepted. I'm betting on the vote on the President's 3rd amendment. It's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[13:10:33]] For 255 Correction accepted. I'm betting on the vote of the President of Ukraine's 4th amendment. Please vote. [[13:10:54]] For 259. Correction accepted. Yeah, all the corrections, and there were four, accounted for. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal of a committee on the adoption of the entire Ukrainian Protection Activities Act, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 4824]] Please vote. [[13:11:39]] For 259. Decision taken. Yes, now, dear colleagues, the Ukrainian Act on Change. One moment, Alexander Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u213	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues. I, frankly, am impressed by our previous vote for judges and would like to raise such a question in the Chamber. You know, I'm surprised that, to this day, Parliament has hardly come to discuss this issue, not one of the leaders of the court. I am surprised by what he has reported on this issue, I believe that the head of the secretariat is not even a leader. Secretary, yes, Secretary. But if we're going down to such a low level, Vladimir Mikhajlovich, it probably shouldn't be afraid. Basic respect, at least for the people you represent as leaders, should be present. I am no longer talking about respect for the parliament that should be feared. We may have to do this the next time, if we are ignored, so we simply do not consider these issues until the leaders come here. Thank you. Let's consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u214	Thank you, I think it's an upstanding, respectable colleague, the right offer, because. The truth was that in connection with the commission’s headship, we would report to the secretary. But I think we'll prepare and send letters to plan on Thursday at 12.30 p.m. to stay in Kiev for the first person. And I think we should put this proposal on Friday for a "hour of questions to the government" so that the government doesn't all go on a mission or much of it and be on the Supreme Council on Friday. And the third question. Reporters from the Cabinet of Ministers should be ministers because they report to a member of the government, not a deputy, not a first, because they are not members of the Cabinet of Ministers. So this proposal, I think, should be supported absolutely, by those first people who are responsible for a certain area of work. And today, I'm going to ask you to make the right calls, otherwise we're not going to discuss the issues, we're going to postpone the discussion. I thank you for your offer and support in this regard. Dear colleagues, I now ask you to consider the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 31.01.2012. I'll bet the vote on the proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:14:40]] For 223 Decision taken. The rapporteur is the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u215	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Honourable voters, honourable colleagues, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2012, the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances and Precursors cannot be signed by the President for such reasons. [[Registration number 9021]] The Head of State draws attention to inconsequential, incorrect provisions of law that disagree with each other. First. Article 8 proposes to exclude from the list of documents required to obtain licenses for drug dealers, a certificate confirming the manager’s professional ability to do the work. [[legal person]] At the same time, according to the new article 9, the presence in the leadership of individuals who are considered unfit to engage in certain activities is one of the reasons for refusing to grant a license to engage in drug activities. The amendments to articles 21 and 23 provide for the right of individuals who are licensed to conduct medical practices to carry out activities in connection with the availability of a license to carry out such activities. At the same time, according to article 26, only legal persons of all forms of ownership of a licence are involved in the transport of narcotic drugs in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I have given just two examples of internal disagreements with the rules of this law. The president made suggestions that address these shortcomings. I call on the House to support the President's proposals so that our laws are quality and in line with the interests of our citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u216	Valérie Konovaluk, head of the Health Committee’s subcommittee, is speaking from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u217	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Ukraine’s Act of Amendment to the Law on Narcotic Drugs, Psychotropic Substances, and Precursors was passed by the Supreme Council on December 12 last year. On January 31st, the law returned with two proposals from the President of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that the law that was passed was about giving physical persons who practice medical and veterinary practices the opportunity to use drugs in their work. In practice, it deprived most of the private veterinarians of their ability to use these tools in their work. The approved law solved the problem and lifted the ban on obtaining licences from private veterinarians and private physicians. Thus, the proposals made by the President of Ukraine state that a number of legal flaws have been approved by law. Yuri Miroshnichenko has already given up on the substance of these proposals, and I will not repeat them. On February 15, 2012, our committee reviewed these proposals and decided to support them. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council also recommends that the proposals of the President of Ukraine be taken into account. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to one technical point that concerns the deadlines for the introduction of this law. The law is now in effect on 1 March. Today, the time limit for the entry into force of the law requires adjustment. That's why I'm talking under the transcript. It is proposed in the End Positions of the Law to state that the law enters into force two months from the date of its publication. Thank you for your attention and please support the law in an editorial that takes into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u218	Dear colleagues! I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 1 of the President of Ukraine. Please vote. [[13:19:02]] For 262 Decision taken. I'm betting on the vote of Amendment No. 2 of the President of Ukraine. [[13:19:20]] For 256 Correction accepted. All adjustments are included. I'm betting on a motion for acceptance in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. I mean, the adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 9021]] Please vote. [[13:19:59]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I propose your consideration of the Ukrainian Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium Enterprises in Ukraine, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine since 31/01/2012. I would like to vote on the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:20:33]] For 226 Decision taken. Reporter - Yuri Miroshnichenko
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u219	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Act on Development and State Support for Small and Medium Enterprises in Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2012, cannot be signed by the President for such reasons. [[Registration number 9202]] First, the proposed legal establishment of implementing bodies of advisory and other subsidiary bodies on small and medium-sized enterprise development may be interpreted not as a right but as an imperative obligation to establish such bodies. Secondly, the provisions of the law, under which state programmes are approved by the government within three months of the adoption of the State Budget, do not comply with the Act on State Objective Programmes. The National Programmes are listed for consideration by the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers, as part of the National Economic and Social Development Programme project, along with the State Budget project. Thirdly, the law has failed to formulate the status, mandate and function, the functional orientation of a specially authorized authority in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise development, which provides a basis for different interpretations of legislative provisions relating to the same issue. Fourthly, it is not supported by the proposal to submit to Parliament information on the state of implementation of State programmes in the framework of the State Economic and Social Development Programme, which duplicates the current programming documents, particularly the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme of the President of Ukraine. In this regard, honourable colleagues, the President has made a number of amendments that will greatly improve the quality of this law. I hope that with the President's proposals we will adopt this law in general. Thank you for your attention. Please support the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u220	Thank you, too. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, head of the Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. As for the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u221	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Industrial, Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the proposals by the President of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Law on the Development and State Support of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 12 January 2012. The purpose of the law is to resolve issues related to the development and state support of small and medium -sized enterprises in Ukraine. Having considered and discussed the Ukrainian President's proposals for Ukrainian law, the members of the committee agreed with them and considered it necessary to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Development and State Support of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises in Ukraine in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u222	Dear colleagues, the table for the vote amendment. [[B in m in s a l in]] What is it?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u223	Dear colleagues, I request you, the summary procedure, to vote only on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's right. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sass confirms. [[B in m in s a l in]] Amendment number 1 shall be put to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] He is now being reexamined. [[13:24:13]] For the 250. Copy that. [[B in m in s a l in]] For 250. Decision taken. 2 amendment, please vote. The committee counted. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[13:24:41]] For 244 Correction accepted. Amendment 3, it's counted by the committee. Please vote. [[13:25:02]] For 256 Correction counted. Amendment 4 shall be put to the vote, and the committee shall take into account. Please confirm it. [[13:25:24]] For 261 The amendment is counted. Amendment 5, I put it to a vote, it's counted, it needs to be confirmed. [[13:25:45.]] For 256 Counted. Amendment 6 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:26:04]] For 263 Correction accepted. Amendment 7 shall be put to the vote for confirmation, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] No questions asked, correction voted. [[13:26:25]] For 263 Correction accepted. The President's amendments are now being voted on. [[B in m in s a l in]] So what? So, do you mind? So don't vote if you don't mind, Yuri. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u224	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want us to do so. We do not meet the requirements of the Rules, which provides for answers and everything else. We're going through a shorter procedure. That's why we have such legislation that they veto all the time. That's why I wanted to say, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, here's the language. The President's proposal to be rejected by the Scientific and Experimental Authority. Look, state support programs are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers in an orderly manner. But according to the Constitution, article 85 of the Constitution is the competence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you know very well that it is. As a result, adjustments should be discussed. And we're just like that. And the President wants it, let's do it! We're getting the job done by the end of the campaign. Because of this, Vladimir Mikhailovich, I would ask you not to make amendments to the President in a reduced regime, not to consider. Then it's completely different with lawmaking. Then we'll do an analysis of who made the mistakes, why the veto was imposed. We've never done that before.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u225	I'll bet the vote on Amendment 8 to confirm it. [[13:28:06]] For 259. Correction supported. All adjustments are included. I'm betting on a motion for adoption of the law in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Registration number 9202. [[13:28:47]] For 257 Decision taken. So the law was passed in general, taking into account the President's proposals. Dear colleagues, in line with the proposals to be considered by the full programme, before the morning session is over, I will put to the vote the proposal that the Supreme Council of Ukraine work at the evening session before the conclusion of the agenda. Let me remind you, one minute, I'll remind you that we've planned with you, dear fellows, over a hundred questions this week -- with committees, factions, everyone's calling for consideration. So let's work as all people work. No problem. I'll see how they vote, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yeah, we have to work, the country's not easy, let's work, it's no big deal. I would like to announce for consideration the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Listing Permits in Economic Activities, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 10.01.2012. The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:30:08]] For 226 Decision taken. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u226	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! On 22 December 2011, the Supreme Council adopted the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activities. [[Registration number 9394]] According to the head of State, this law cannot be signed for such reasons. First. The law provides for an expansion of the list of documents of a permissive nature in the field of economic activity, complementing it with new documents, the need for obtaining which are already provided for in the existing laws of Ukraine. And to include in the listed list of documents that are still required by valid laws, which is contrary to the main objective of reform in the area of deregulation, a substantial reduction in the number of permits. The other one. The law provides that it takes effect at the same time as the Law on Reforming and Improving the Allowance System in the Field of Environmental Protection, the rational and non-exhaustive use of natural resources and environmental security, the reduction of regulatory pressure on operators. At present, such a law is not adopted by the Supreme Council. Thus, the validity of the law is deferred to an indefinite period. In order to remedy these shortcomings, the head of State considers it necessary to exclude from the law a reference to permits that have not yet been enacted by valid laws and to adjust the period of validity. Dear colleagues, the President has announced a number of urgent, necessary reforms to the country, including social reform and economic reform. Deregulation will allow a large number of resources to be involved in all spheres of the economy of Ukraine. I ask you very much to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u227	Please, Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u228	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich! Respectable colleagues! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permittive Documents in the Field of Economic Activity with a view to enacting the law and harmonizing the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permittive Documents in the Field of Economic Activity with the provisions of the legislative acts in the area of the harmonization of documents of a permissive nature. Having considered and discussed the President's proposals for the Ukrainian Law, the members of the Committee agreed with them, taking into account the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration, namely, that there remained in the list of documents of a permissive nature permits for discharges of pollutants for which the relevant environmental safety standards were not established under the Air Protection Act of Ukraine, and proposed the Act of Ukraine "On Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitential Documents in the Field of Economic Activity" to be adopted in a new edition. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u229	Amendment 1 of the President of Ukraine is put to the vote. [[13:33:59]] For 238. Copy that. I'm betting on a vote of two. [[13:34:20]] For 256 Correction accepted. I'm betting on a vote of 3 amendments. [[13:34:39]] For 259. Correction accepted. I'll bet you a vote on the 4th amendment. [[13:34:58]] For 259. Correction accepted. I'll bet the vote on the 5th amendment. [[13:35:16]] For 261 Correction accepted. Amendment 6 shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[13:35:38]] For 264 Correction accepted. I now put to the vote a proposal for the adoption of the whole Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Permitted Documents in the Field of Economic Activity, taking into account the President's proposals. [[9394]] Please vote. [[13:36:22]] For 262 The law is passed. Thank you. We are considering the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8214]] The proposal is to consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:36:56]] For 217 Offer supported. A representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council, George Miroshnichenko, reports. Getting ready is a shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u230	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters! Dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act, adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January 2012, cannot be signed by the President for the following reasons: the proposed amendments are not compatible: first, with article 22 of the Ukrainian Constitution. [[Registration number 8214]] In adopting new laws or amending existing laws, it is not possible to narrow down the content and scope of existing rights. Second, with the Act on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, which states that too limited television lists are recognized. is determined by an overly limited list of the product to be adapted to promote hearing disability. A small number of radio organizations are being set up to undertake such adaptations. Thirdly, from the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, ratified by the Act of 16 December 2009, which will result in violations made by Ukraine of its obligations to ensure that persons with disabilities have access to television programmes and films in accessible forms. Instead, the Head of State considers it necessary to establish in the Television and Radio Act the guarantee of the right of persons with disabilities to freedom of information. These are established by the Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine and are provided for in Ukraine’s international obligations. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine by introducing the second paragraph of Chapter I in the new edition. Thank you for your attention, please support the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u231	Thank you. From the committee, the head of the Ukolov Committee, Viktor Aleksandrovich, is a more loyal head of the subcommittee. You don't? The committee has decided to make a general decision, taking into account the President's proposals, so here we go after the amendments. Well, I'm sorry, it's not that committee a little bit. Yes, I'm putting to the vote the first sentence, the president's amendment. Please vote. [[13:39:43]] For 242 Counted. I'm voting on the adoption of the Act on Amendments to Articles 43 and 49 of the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act with the President's proposals. Registration number 8214. [[13:40:17]] For 210 Not accepted. Yes, there is an offer to return to the committee for further work, please support this. [[13:40:45.]] For 278 He's on his way to the committee for work. We are considering the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Articles 21 and 27 of the Ukrainian Act on "On mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 8775]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:41:31]] For 222 Supported. Reported by President Yuri Miroshnichenko. He'll report to Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u232	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Act on Amendments to Articles 21 and 27 of the Ukrainian Law "On mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses" adopted by the Supreme Council on 9 December 2011 cannot be signed by the President for such reasons. [[Registration number 8775]] The law proposes to remove a number of rules from the law. According to the Heads of State, these changes do not correspond to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and basic laws, such as: they conflict with the constitutional principle of the obligation to enforce judicial decisions, they conflict with the Civil Code, they conflict with the Enforcement Act, and they do not comply with the Act "On mandatory public social insurance in relation to temporary loss of work and expenses caused by burial", which does not define any specific features of the application, the cost of insurance charged to a separate account. In this regard, honourable colleagues, please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine to reject this law. Thank you for your attention. Since the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens and our work to protect and realize these rights and interests are designed to support them in every way and not narrow them down. Thank you for your attention and please support the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u233	Please, Hara Vasil Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u234	Dear colleagues! The Committee considered the President's proposal and, regrettably, the Committee decided unanimously to reject it. It is regrettable that the legislative proposal was intended to ensure that, in the event of bankruptcy, enterprises do not close the accounts on which social insurance contributions are concentrated. Bankruptcy is now under way, accounts are closed and hospital staff are closed, births and so on must seek out where the Executive Directorate is located and receive funding there. This, of course, brings great inconvenience. But in order to address this problem, we have made it a task for the Committee to look for other ways and to address the expertise of the President's Administration, which they see as a way to deal with this problem, because this is a very large number of people who find the situation today extremely unpleasant and unfavourable. Once again, however, the Committee unanimously supported the proposal and agreed that it should be rejected but regretted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u235	Yes, Your Honor, the President's proposal is to reject the law. I'm putting forward a proposal by the President, supported by the committee, you've heard the conclusion, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration also supports this proposal, the rejection of the Amendment Act to articles 21 and 27 of the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and funeral expenses. [[Registration number 8775]] Please vote. [[13:45:39]] For 261 Decision taken. The law is rejected. We are considering the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act on the Ordering of International Road Transport, with proposals by the President. [[Registration number 8029]] There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. [[13:46:17]] For 230 Offer supported. Reported the first deputy minister of justice, Jemelyanov Inna Ivanovna. Get ready, Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u236	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine was not signed and returned to the Supreme Council. Yes, it was stipulated by the Supreme Council that the carriage of passengers and cargo was permitted by means of transportation, including a license card. And if dangerous goods are transported, the driver’s license card is also provided. At the same time, the Ukrainian Road Traffic Act, in particular its article 16, states that a driver is obliged to have police personnel at his disposal and to hand over a license card in cases provided for by legislation to carry passengers and cargo. In addition, a valid Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity defines licensing as subject to, inter alia, the provision of services for the transport of passengers and dangerous goods. Licenses are included, including documents and license cards. So if the Supreme Council of the Law on Amendments to the Automobile Transport Act were to take effect, it would be inconsistent with certain provisions of the Road Traffic Act and the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. In connection with this President of Ukraine, it was also proposed to amend these two laws, which I have already called "road traffic" and "For licensing certain types of economic activity". At the same time, the President's position was not supported by a law that operated on an appropriate term as the "central authority of the executive body in the field of transport", which is not in line with the recently adopted Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities. In this regard, it is proposed that the term be replaced by the "central executive authority that provides for the formation and implementation of public policy in the field of transport". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u237	Thank you. Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich, head of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Liaison, commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council on February 22, 2012, discussed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport for the Ordering of International Road Transport. [[Registration number 8029]] In his proposals, the President of Ukraine notes that following the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act, a body of legal rules will be established between the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Road Transport, Road Traffic and the "For licensing of certain types of commercial activity" on documents that are required to have a driver with them when carrying goods by road. In order to avoid such a collision, the President of Ukraine proposes to supplement the law with provisions on the introduction of appropriate amendments to the laws on road traffic and on the licensing of certain types of household activities, clarifying their position on the mandatory availability of a licence card when only dangerous goods are transported by road. In addition, it is proposed to introduce the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Automobile Transport Act in accordance with the Law on Central Executive Authorities by amending paragraphs 6 and 8 of Chapter 1 of the First Act: “the central authority of the executive authority in the field of transport in all differences” by saying “the central authority of the executive authority that ensures the formation and implementation of the State policy in the field of transport in an appropriate manner”. In view of the above, the Transport and Communications Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept all the President’s proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u239	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u240	Ukraine's Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Automobile Act on the Order of International Road Transport. The corresponding changes are shown in the table. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u241	Thank you. It's the President's 1st proposal. Please be supportive. Mikhail Ivanovich, Mikhail Ivanovich, you may sit down, your mission is accomplished. [[13:51:25]] For 257 The President's second proposal is for a vote. Please vote. [[13:51:46]] For 247 Supported. The President's third proposal is for a vote. [[13:52:04]] For 259. Supported. The President's fourth proposal is for a vote. [[13:52:22]] For 258. Supported. And the President’s fifth proposal is to vote. Please vote. [[13:52:40]] For 259. Supported. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the Ukrainian Amendments Act on Road Transport for the Ordering of International Road Transport, taking into account the President's proposals. [[Registration number 8029]] Please vote. [[13:53:13]] For 263 Thank you, the law has been passed. I am announcing for consideration the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the right of a person to review judicial decisions. [[Registration number 10001]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:45]] For 216 Supported. According to Philipenko Volodymyr Pilipovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u242	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the draft Law presented to you has been prepared in view of the need for an adequate level of national security for the right of a person to review a judicial decision, as well as the requirements of the 1950 Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The bill proposes to establish the possibility of filing an application for review of a court decision in connection with the establishment of an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognised by Ukraine, a violation by Ukraine of international obligations in the case of a case, even in the absence of a copy of such a decision, subject to the addition to the application of a person for a copy of such a copy to the body responsible for the enforcement of the decisions of an international court. In addition, taking into account existing court practice to ensure the right of a person to review a court decision, we consider it necessary to amend the current legislation of Ukraine and to determine the procedure for reviewing decisions on administrative offences in the case of the establishment of an international tribunal whose jurisdiction is recognised by Ukraine, a violation by Ukraine of international obligations in such a case by a court. At present, there is no procedure for reviewing administrative offences in cases where an international judicial institution, such as the European Court of Rights, a person who violates Ukraine’s international obligations in such cases, is established by an international tribunal, or which cases are subject to review, and which decisions are entitled to be taken by the court on the basis of the outcome of the proceedings. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered a bill at its meeting on February 22, this year. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the right of the person to review the decisions made by the Ukrainian people's deputies Kiwalov and Philippenk to take the first reading as a basis. [[10001]] I would also like to add that the outcome of this project will be to improve the efficiency of the judiciary, to improve the legal mechanisms, to ensure the right of the person to review.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u243	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u244	Thank you. To review judicial decisions and to bring the current legislation of Ukraine into line with international standards. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u245	I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this consideration. If they're desirable. Besides Popescu, do others insist? And Shustik. Nobody else? Then please, Popescu. Then there's Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u246	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I'm going to try to be as concise as possible and I'm going to pay attention to the main thing. The point is that the bill proposes to amend the four codes. This will, indeed, ensure the right of the person to add a copy of the decisions of an international judicial institution whose jurisdiction is recognized in Ukraine, or of the person concerned with the enforcement of copies of such a decision to the authority responsible for the enforcement of the decisions by an international court if a copy of such a decision is not available to the person who made the application. I mean, I would like to point out that this will help harmonize national legislation with European legislation and help ensure citizens' rights to review domestic court decisions on the basis of decisions of international courts. This will also help to fulfill our obligations to the Council of Europe. A bunch of regions are going to go for it, and we encourage you to go for it as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u247	Please, Shustik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u248	Olena Shustik, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The bill, submitted by the authors, is considered essential and seems to be designed to meet the requirements of the European Court of Human Rights. But I think, by including this bill in the agenda, most people didn't think that this project would actually not solve the issues that the European Court was referring to. The European Court of Human Rights, in its decision of 21 October 2010 in the Korneyev and Karpenko v. Ukraine case, acknowledged a violation of the right to a fair trial because failure to give Karpenk sufficient time and opportunity to prepare his defence did not ensure a fair trial. By the way, doesn't that remind you of anything? In the case of Julia Timoshenko, she was deprived of her right to defend herself. I think there's no doubt about violating all possible convention rules during the trial of Julia Volodymyrna. The European Court of Human Rights, unlike our blind justice, I do not think it will close my eyes on these violent violations of Yulia Timoshenko’s rights. In the above case, the European Court of Justice stated separately that a new consideration, review, or reinstatement of conduct at the request of the author of the problem could be a proper way of correcting the infringement. It turns out that Ukrainian legislation does not provide for such an option, and this project, which has just been considered, will not remedy the situation because it provides for an unwarrantedly complex procedure for dealing with administrative offences that does not take into account the specificities of these categories of cases. And under such conditions, it is more likely to violate them here in Ukraine. Science-expert management, I'm paying attention to you, nine sheets made meaningful remarks that we fully agree with. So the Faction "BUT" – "Paternity" will not vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-03-22-m0.u249	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, on the basis of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the right of a person to review judicial decisions. [[Registration number 10001]] Please vote. [[14:00:30]] For 264 Decision taken. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Break until 4:00.
