ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:00:19]] There were 363 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Today is the birthday of the national deputy of Ukraine, our colleague John Grigorovich Kirilenko. Please welcome John Kirilenko and wish him success. Dear National Deputies! I give you information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on September 18, 2012. Forty-nine issues of the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 14 laws and 14 regulations were passed, 16 bills were adopted as a basis. The 1st Bill is returned to the Committee for further processing and the next submission for resecond reading. 1 bill and 4 draft decrees were rejected. According to the President of Ukraine's proposals, 6 laws have been passed in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of Ukraine, 2 laws have been rejected. Dear National Deputies! Your attention, please. I am voting for a motion for annulment, for the annulment of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, in the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Strengthening of Responsibility for Infringing the Honor, Dignity and Business Reputation of Human Beings. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] This is the decision of the Conciliation Council, I put it to a vote. Please vote. [[10:02:03]] For 349 Decision taken. The factions. I put to the vote the decision of the Conciliation Council. Take it easy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Region Party - 174, "BUT - "Fatherhood" – 56, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 45, communists – 23, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-factional – 13. Decision taken. And let's not go on making these decisions. Dear national MPs, next offer. May I have your attention, please? Continue the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the finalization of Tuesday’s scheduled issues, October 2. Please vote. The factions are about to come from the factions. [[10:03:07]] For 261 Decision taken. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, are given 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized representatives of MPs, supply groups, announcements, and reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, last time we voted and changed the calendar for the previous meeting. I want to. I'll explain it again, I'll explain it again, they've changed. Please don't stop working. Yeah, did you sign up? Please log in. Yes, the names of the national deputies. Mikola Martinenko, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Arsenius Yatsenuk, please. Next will be Gennady the Bull.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u3	Good afternoon, honourable Members of Parliament! See how the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked quickly. The head of Parliament, rather than allowing factions and factions as a whole to speak about what was going on in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, quickly put to the vote the law passed by the Party of Regions and Conscripts. Like cats, they hurt and run and show that they fear their own people. And not just their own people, they decided to adopt a law that actually became a prerequisite for the imprisonment of journalists, bloggers, any Jews who are not afraid to tell the truth and who want the people of Ukraine to hear this truth. They are afraid of the truth, which is why they have shown today that the decision that was made last week, these decisions, of course, will do their utmost to return to its adoption after the new Supreme Council and after the convening of the new Parliament. I'm convinced that this power should go to waste because these people are afraid of the truth, these people are afraid of journalists, these people are afraid of their citizens, they're afraid of everything that brings out their theft. I think it's a victory, first of all, for civil society and for the journalist community, who didn't give these so-called pro-powered candidates today to get the law that shuts the mouths of journalists. But the fight is not over, and the fight must go on. It is very important for us to win the 2012 elections as a united opposition and to never, under any circumstances, rise up and vote in laws that actually destroy the freedom of speech that destroys the right of Ukrainians to know the truth that destroys the right of Ukrainian journalists to speak the truth. True, today’s parliamentary session did not only provide for the consideration of the Law on slander or criminal responsibility for the right to speak the truth. In today's order, this authority has also envisioned a series of bills that are silently seeking to be adopted under the closure of the Parliament's session. It's the adoption of amendments to the Ukrainian State Budget Act. Now think about it, they want to allocate 4 billion dollars to compensate for the price of gas for private district gas companies and private industrial enterprises that consume expensive gas. They want, at the expense of the Ukrainians, to sponsor their businesses, their factories, and their companies again. Today, too, they have put into order the daily Law on the Extension of the Moratorium to Earth. As a united opposition, we fully support the extension of the moratorium on land because we believe that last week Parliament has implemented land equipment when a decision has been made to create a land bank and when a decision has been made on the actual granting to foreigners of the right to acquire Ukrainian land. We understand why this law is now in order today. You want to roll it up, you want to not take it and take the moratorium off the ground next year. We believe that this is unacceptable, and we demand that today’s majority vote in full for the extension of the moratorium to 2014. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u4	Gennady Bully, the reform group for the future. Next is Hanusztak, or who's going to be speaking from the "BUT" faction?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Within a few weeks, elections will be held for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which will become a kind of purgatory for the political forces represented in Parliament. A moment of truth is coming and, given the number of voter requests, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction considers it necessary to publish some questions that still cannot be answered in a clear and unanimous way by the sympathy of the communist idea. The thing is, since the start of the election campaign of all the television and radio channels and the number-boards, the leaders of the Company have convinced them that they are the only advocates of the workers and promise to overcome the oligarchs and bring the nation back. However, they remain silent as they fight the oligarchs, share their authority, and which country they want to restore. Was it not the one where the Communists destroyed church temples and exterminated priests, but instead of the sacred faith of our ancestors, they planted Communist ideas and idols? These and other questions are quite right, considering how the Company fulfills its earlier promises. Lugancan, for example, wonders how to combine the promises of the Communists to provide housing for the people when the Communists actually took away the dormitory and placed their lugansk round of the party. No less interested are the voters of what results have the Communists achieved in combating the privatization of public property, and how will they fight against its consequences further? Especially since the privatization process is led by a person appointed to head the State Property Fund under the quota of the CPI faction. For example, in the city of Mikolayev, the state-owned company Zora Mashproject is preparing for privatisation, and the management of the company has long been under the leadership of the Russian oligarch, one of the Company's donors. Where are the principles, where are the principles? Where is the return to state property of enterprises that in their time, as Valentina Seminyuk, a socialist, did? Where's Crevystall and the Black Sea Shipbuilding Plant? In this regard, people are keenly interested in why the Company does not protest the sale of enterprises of strategic importance to the state. Where are the strikes, the rallies, where is the resistance to the theft of state property? Why are the Communists standing away from the protests of the disabled, the Chernobyl and Afghan veterans? Why do only words fight against the privatization of the earth? In view of the fact that the Communists are focusing on their entrepreneurs in education and science at every opportunity, consider an example that is the tip of a portrait of the Communist Party. In the first plenary week, the Communists unanimously voted in favour of a bill on the formation and placement of a government order for the preparation of scientific, scientific and pedagogical personnel. [[Act No. 10720]] The danger to society in this bill is that it eliminates the specific guarantees of government procurement contained in the Education Act. This will mean the final elimination of the constitutional right of citizens to free education. Most of all, though, are interested in where the Communists have so much money for their pre-election political advertising. Because in terms of the quantity and quality of political advertising, they are confidently competing with the Party of Regions, which is a party of major capital. Who is their sponsor, who is this Sava Morozov today? Maybe it's the Head of Staff who was assigned by the ICU's headship quota? Voters question whether the privatisation of public property or not from the State Customs, led by a young communist, is the money flowing through the water for the IPU electoral campaign? People want to know how the communists will fight the oligarchs if, according to their leader, they plan to form with them a majority in the new parliament, how the communists will complain in Brussels about the falsification of the power of the elections, which their leader of the PPU has repeatedly claimed, even though they are themselves in power. Given the importance, the MP's Reform for the Future called on the Parliamentary vanguard of the Company, with all its communist directness and principle, to give up the money of the oligarchs, to break up its disgraceful alliance with the clan-oligarchy party, and to be an example of principle, honesty for the deprived and to resist.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u6	Mikola Tomenko, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Igor Alexeyev will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u7	Dear colleagues! I had to say one thing about the previous vote, because I was the only MP who, in the previous discussion of the shortened procedure, opposed this bill of slander. I think that before the elections we have a parliamentary majority, and the power of good for the Ukrainian people, good for journalists. For us, it is extremely important that this bill does not appear the next day after the election campaign, and if it is the President's clear position and the clear position of the Party of Regions, then we await the release of the author from office as Presidential Counsellor, because he has taken a stand against the President General Line and a clear statement that there will be no such bill in the next sessional room. And I wanted to draw attention from the Fatherland faction to the electoral campaign and, in particular, the majority districts. While there is a debate on the various political forces in the country, a direct or indirect group of voters is taking place in major districts. I would divide the candidates who invest financially in the soul or in the body of the average electorate into two categories: budget candidates. We have people who come, and all the authorities follow them and open up objects that are invested in national funds. It seems to me that it is the man who is traveling in the Donetsk region, the son of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. He offered such paradoxical psychology to power. In his district, he invests in his native Donetskin, and he invests in Austria’s decaying European economy. Thus, when he traveled through the Donetsk region, all officials who had to protect people opened public buildings and told people how he helped the people. We have, I've calculated, about a hundred candidates for budget funds who smile kindly and open objects at our expense. By the way, I figured we'd have a third of our family, loved ones in the next Parliament. If they were lovers before, they would now be brothers, wives, sisters, and we would have a third of the family’s parliament. And then the legacy jokes about the next president will no longer be a joke. The second candidate is candidates for shadow money. These are the classics of our billionaires who never appeared in the session room. They came to the county, took the lists and bought poor, unhappy, blackbacks, and distributed about 150 bracelets, where 200 bracelets were given. So that's how they think that when they come to the county for a contribution, they pay for it because they have to go to the police to crucify them, and then they say, "How much do you have to pay these bastards: $5 million, $7 million to buy the county?" So I wanted to bring to the attention of the Home Secretary, the head of the Security Service, the Attorney General's Office, if they haven't completely lost track of what they're doing, that, friends, go to the villages and see how the electorate crowd is doing during this election campaign. The final position is for so - called cameras. Today we're going to talk about this bill about cameras. Friends, I went through the villages and looked at 33,000 polling stations. There are branches in such schools and cultural buildings that at least the door there needs to be set, bleached, and not the cameras hanging there. So it's very clear to me that there's no fair elections, and there's not going to be democratic elections, either there's one option left: whether they're going to be forged or not. We, as the opposition, believe that everything must be done to ensure that the elections are not falsified. It's not for us, it's for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u8	Igor Alexeyev, Communist faction. Oleg Zarubinsky will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u9	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Despite the barbaric statements of government officials on Ukraine's economic successes, the steady rise in social standards, it is obvious to all that the reality is in fact fundamentally different from the pre-election spells. In fact, Ukraine's economy has become a minefield, and the country is moving in seven steps towards an economic divide and a social default. In Ukraine, an inefficient energy-efficient economy remains, production capacity is critical, labour productivity is less than in the developed countries of the world. In the structure of industrial production, low-processing, raw materials and semi-manufactured products continue to dominate, and the high-tech industries are not developing, the domestic market has been repurchased to a foreign producer. Destructs science and education. In the modern Ukrainian capitalist economy, there is simply no demand for highly skilled personnel. Free medical care is being abolished in a clear manner, and the quality of medical services is declining. At the same time, the social and economic rights of citizens are being challenged slowly but steadily: the retirement age is increasing, the benefits are being abolished, anti-national laws, labour laws and the Housing Code are being prepared. No matter how much we try today to convince the Nazbank people and the Government of the imperviousness of the bracelet course, a new wave of smooth devaluation has actually begun. Ukraine's total external debt has almost reached GDP of some $130 billion. Reserves of the National Bank are hidden in front of the eyes. But instead of getting off the debt needle, as the communists suggest, instead of limiting the budget deficit, the authorities continue to go into debt. Over the past year alone, the deficit of the budget has increased more than threefold, amounting to 16 billion 655 million bracelets. Local budgets have grown worse. Thus, in July, the Government had effectively blocked about three, four billion bracelets in local government treasury accounts, and there was formal money, but local budgets could not be managed. As a result, expenditure on housing, transportation, hospital services, school repairs, kindergartens and so on was not funded. At the same time, public property sales are being forced, energy-generating gas distribution companies are being sold, strategic sites are being strategically used, the country's industrial capacity is being pooled, the main public property is being sold — the fertile Ukrainian Blacklands. Respectable voters! The only way to overcome the ongoing crisis and return the country to the people is by radically changing the course of development. On behalf of and for the benefit of workers, the State should manage the main productive assets and natural resources of the country, not the oligarchs. Basic adults and enterprises, particularly the energy sector, heavy machinery, metal and chemical industries, aviation and shipbuilding, should be nationalized by the APC. The prohibition on the sale of land of destination must be enshrined in the Constitution. Medicine and education must be free, and every young professional must be guaranteed the first job. The tariffs on services of the JCC should not exceed 10 per cent of the family's income, and the alcohol and tobacco industries should be in the exclusive monopoly of the State. The pension reform must be abolished and the retirement age restored to the old level: 60 years for men, 55 years for women. In the face of the crisis of world capitalism, the European Union's growing problems, the Company is confident that Ukraine's national interests will be fully in line with the question of accession to the Customs Union of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan and the question of Ukraine's accession to the EuroSEA. One of the previous speakers. The growing popularity of the Communist Party, I think, is causing some political forces the kind of gloomyness we've heard. I mean, the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u10	Finish up, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u11	as a serious political force, you know, the leaps of fleas from certain, misunderstood political, force orientations will not be just a matter of attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u12	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Next is Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u13	Dear citizens, by the end of this week, the country will be celebrating a national Teacher’s Day. It's not just education, it's all of our people, because the teacher is from God, but all the other professions are from the teacher. It is our teachers who have made an effort to make the literacy rate in Ukraine 99.7 percent, one of the highest rates in the world. At a time when, according to the European Commission, for example, in the European Union, between 15 and 20 percent of adults cannot read or write. It was our students who gave Ukraine 25 seats worldwide in terms of quality of education, and among the countries of Eastern Europe that it was first. I understand that these facts dissonate with the desire of a part of politics and their reproductions to plant in Ukrainians a complex of inferiority and inferiority in comparison with other countries to which these politicians and their retranslators do not pray in vain. However, each one chooses his own mission in life: to create one and the other to disgrace one another. And the vast majority of teachers who are educated understand this very well, because in their own experience of their own time, they have found that the skills of artificially eluctated smiles and theatrically-actoric respiration in addressing them are a political mix, not a genuine concern for them. It's been a while, the support of education, the encouragement to productive work, gradually, but constantly raising social and material security -- the question that's being put into the agenda today. And that is true, for by teaching and raising children, teachers are working for our country, Ukraine, to strengthen its position in the world. By the way, unlike those patriot pseudos who are hurting our country where they can only do it for their own skin interests. The Book of Wisdom says that "and the secret will become manifest." So it became clear that one record of truthfulness, while our colleague, had persuaded his foreign curators to influence the IMF so that Ukraine would not be granted credit. It's at a time when the whole world is fighting for affordable loans today. And the largest creditor in the United States is China. And the euro, according to world experts, would have collapsed early in 2012 if China had not bought off the European Union’s debt. Everything in secret is becoming clear. As well as the way our current Euro-Integrator sought from European Union officials and politicians not to initial a free trade agreement with Ukraine. And once again, the leather party-political interests. In the people, they are rightly called "poisoners" and "poisoners." So I have two bad news for the bad guys and the bad guys and the lab revolutionaries. [[Special emphasis, laboratory]] First. The Ukrainian Parliament will be elected, not by its curators and useful external advisers, but by its citizens. Most of them have already figured out where the words are and where they are. And the second. There will be no such economic cataclysms and defolts for them in Ukraine, nor will there be any Euro-2012 failure they want, which they have been unwittingly working for. On the contrary, Ukraine’s triumph took place. And their desire to rock and ship the Ukrainian State in their own interests may end unless they just fall out of that boat. And he will move forward with confidence and power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u14	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues and respected voters! The elections in our country went straight ahead, with 26 days left before the election of the seventh Parliament. But it can and must be noted today that the level of organization of elections in general is in line with democratic standards. The task of the President, which he firmly and unequivocally set before the vertical authorities, the conduct of an honest electoral campaign, has been successfully accomplished. To date, there have been no significant violations, and the problems identified by practice have been quickly addressed by the implementation of the Electoral Act. That is how the Centre dealt with the situation quickly and with the vote on the vouchers, removing the issue of political tourism from the agenda. This has been done on direct instructions from the Head of State, which once again underlines the Ukrainian authorities'principled interest in passing this examination in an excellent manner before the world community. But above all, we feel a high responsibility to our own people. On what, then, are the walls and exclaims of opposition based? Mainly on awareness of the rapid failure of the elections. Communicating with the people on the ground makes it clear that our wise voter believes those for whom they advocate specific matters, not loud words, but the opposition is not ready to give up in a fair fight. They descend before pouring dirt on their country in foreign capitals, regardless of the damage that Ukraine is depicted in the eyes of the world community. Gentlemen, take care! Your sponsors' money has been thrown into the wind, and your lobbyists' efforts have been wasted. The election will be under the great applause of the world community. We will form an even greater parliamentary majority in this room, which will continue to modernize the country. You have the desire and the ability to work for the benefit of the people, and we ask for mercy. Our doors are always open for dialogue. Propose constructive initiatives, make staff proposals, and the laity and demagogy have already been accepted by everyone. This proves communication with people on the ground, I am sure it will also show the result of the vote. For us as State authorities, it is essential that the upcoming elections be seen as an important step towards modernizing the country. The Presidential Reform Plan should be supported by the support and trust of most citizens. It is the people's mandate that the Party of the Regions joins the peoples. We are confident of the wisdom of the Ukrainians that we will successfully complete the changes that have begun for the benefit of millions of citizens. But not only are ordinary people living in one election today but there are daily hard work. Not only do we, the regionals, know the problems that concern our people, but we also deal with them successfully. Food security in the country is a priority. We've arranged for harvesting, we're planning on getting ready for the spring harvest. Ukraine will have bread! And this is one of the most important news we want to bring to people. Against the backdrop of the instability that has gripped many countries, we have achieved a moderate but growing Ukrainian economy. The money was able to begin to raise social standards. This work will necessarily continue next year. The new quality of our foreign policy makes it possible to defend Ukraine's national interests in today's world. Economic pragmatism has eliminated distortions in relations with Eastern and Western partners. Without a doubt, the holding of democratic elections to the Supreme Council will give a new impetus to Ukraine's relations with Russia, the United States and the European Union. It will strengthen our positions as a country that will chair the OSCE in 2013. Thousands of international observers will come to us in these days. We look forward to their unbiased position and to an objective assessment of the outcome of the electoral campaign. In conclusion, I note that the election factor has had a noticeable impact on the organization of the work of the deputy corps. But we have made a decision and are working just as hard as it takes to review the laws. And turning Parliament into a rostrum for our election campaign into a state account, we will not allow anyone! However, any election will end. And the inevitable question is, What mood will we bring into this room with the start of a new assembly? I am sure that we will maintain in these walls a constructive spirit of lawmaking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, the speeches are over. With regard to the suggestions made in the presentations, I ask the Secretariat to form a parliamentary request. Dear National Deputies! At the meeting of the Conciliation Council, it was decided that today, Tuesday, we would be making parliamentary inquiries, which were submitted in advance by the National Deputies. A request was received from the Ukrainian National Deputies: Vladimir Lešchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the urgent arrangements for the provision of accommodation for the citizens of Gorodnian, Koropski, Koryukovsky, Novgorod-Sieversky, Seminowski, Sosnické and Czernigów region with natural gas in balloons. Igora Sharov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for regulatory and legal regulation of the standard position of the Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine on the certification of pedagogical workers No.930 from 6 October 2010 and the system of clarification to him with the aim of preventing labour rights violations of the education sector in the Kirovgrad region. Vladimir Leschchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of an additional grant from the state budget of Montenegro to ensure normal functioning before the end of 2012 of the rural councils, local institutions and organizations financed from rural budgets. Jury Karmazin to the Prime Minister, the Attorney General, the Minister for Education and Science, Youth and Sports, the heads of the Lviv District Administration for the non-abuse of students of the 10th class of the Borislav School No. 4 of the Lviv Region by officials of the Borislav Mischikonka Region, for the examination of violations of the rights of schoolchildren to adequate conditions of education as a result of the decision taken by the executive committee of the Borislav Municipal Council of the Lviv Region, for the use of urgent measures to ensure full secondary education for students of the 10th class of the Borislav School No. 4 of the Lviv region by dividing one class, by a total of 40 students, into two separate classes with a population of 20 according to the Law on General Secondary Education. Grenevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a clear system of technical regulation. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for the restoration of sports objects around the National Sports Complex "Olympic" that were destroyed during the preparations for the final part of the 2012 European Championship. Grenevetsky's Sergey to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the concept of the development of an automated system of emergency monitoring in Ukraine. Veacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Finance, Head of the Kiev City Public Administration on the relationship between the Ukrainian State Budget and the budget of the city of Kiev and the failure to fulfil the State's financial obligations to the capital. Veacheslava Koval and Alexander Crnvolenko to the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine – Minister of Infrastructure, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Head of the Kiev City Administration for Design, Construction, Financing of the Kyiv Metro in 2013-2014 and its prospects for development until 2025 and subsequent years. Vladimir Karpuk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Head of the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, for the use of urgent measures to prohibit the transport of sulphur in an open mobile warehouse with the aim of excluding the environmental and health impact of a complex of negative factors that arise in transporting it. Edouard Prutnik to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need for security in the current year in full terms of the need to maintain budget institutions in the Chernigiv region, in particular to pay more than 454 million dollars for work and to consider proposals to change the formula for the allocation of inter-budgetary transfers between government and local budgets to increase spending on education, health, culture and art, social protection, physical culture and sports, which will prevent social tensions among Montenegrin budget staff. Groups of National Deputies (Bondik, Prutnik, Lithuania) to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the High Council of Justice, the High Qualificational Commission of Judges, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Tax Service, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the need for a comprehensive review of the complaint by Alexander Shabelnikov concerning the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms of man and citizen, as well as the correctness and objectivity of the application of Ukrainian legislation. Valery Bondik to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the field of communication and information, the State Department of Special Relations and Information Protection of Ukraine regarding the need to inform the International Bureau of the World Postal Union about the activities of the new post-op operator, the Association with limited responsibility of UcrexPress. Ruslana Knazević to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the protection of the constitutional rights of residents of the Science House, 102 in Kiev. Group of People's Deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Presidium of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the Attorney-General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service on the need for a comprehensive review of the appeal of the scientific community and the direction of the Institute of World Economics and International Relations of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine on the non-residence of the raiding of the institution building, as a result of activities that have signs of abuse of office duties by the Deputy Director, by setting up a long-term rental of 2 floors on Leontovic Street, 5. [[Clergymen, Lithuania, and others]] Creation, if supported, of conditions for lack of access to these premises, removal in the Institute's directorate, in his own interests, of the original documents. This is the evidence of ownership of the institution, the State Act on Land and the BTI Plan, and the failure of other destructive activities aimed at the cessation of the scientific institution of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. Igora Ribakov to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, head of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine with price control over purchase prices for milk in the population of Gorodnjanski, Koropski, Koryukovsky, Novgorod-Syverski, Semenovski, Sosnické and Storski region of Chernigów. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the Central Electoral Commission on the need to take action to protect the rights of the community in Sofia Borszagivka Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Sofia Borschagiva, I'm sorry. Alexia Plotnikov and Anatolia Stepenenka to the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the State Agency for Road Traffic in Ukraine, the Kiev City State Administration, the Holy District in Kiev, the State Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of the Council of the Kyiv High School of Eastern Languages, number one on the improvement of the road safety situation in the Holy District of Kiev around the educational institution in the streets of Lviv, the Supreme and Fedor Krichevsky. Alexander Crnowolka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Administration of the President of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Secretary of the Kiev City Council, Prosecutor of the City of Kiev, Head of the Delhi District in Kiev State Administration, Head of the Inspectorate of State and Architectural Building Control in Kiev for the immediate cessation of illegal construction at Kiev City, Prospect of Truth 80-82. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of the law enforcement authorities of the Poltav region and the protection of property rights of Eugene and Tetjana Kravchenkov. Vasil Gritzak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the investigation and prosecution of the city of Kiev in criminal proceedings. Vasil Cherney to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-refundability of agricultural equipment to the private agricultural enterprise of the farm "Cheichinecke". Vladimir Olijnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the violation of the terms of the additional criminal investigation. Constantine Bondarev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Constantine Bondarev to the Attorney-General for the verification of the destruction of the property of the candidate in the national parliament. Lesi Orobec to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the inaction of officials of the Attorney-General's Office during the examination of the actions of the Nicolaus Interstate Prosecutor, the Interregional Environmental Prosecutor Roman Salen and the Dnipropetrovsk Prosecutor's Office in the area of law enforcement. Mikoli Tomenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for responding to public statements and actions regarding the bribery of voters in the Cherka region of the candidate in the Ukrainian national deputies Volodymyr Zubik. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of the responsibility of officials of the State for violating the presumption of innocence, unfounded accusations and misinformation of society regarding the involvement of Yulia Timoshenko in the murder of Eugene Szczerbán. Oleg Tishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the probable involvement of Ruslan Szerbán in the hunting and forcing him by the investigating authorities of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to give false evidence of Julia Timoshenko's complicity in the murder of his father, Eugene Szerbian, in exchange for avoiding responsibility. Alexia Fedun to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal actions of officials of the "Friendship" Garden Society and the protection of the legal rights of gardeners of the village of Rowie of the Vistok region of Kiev. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights of the village of Sofia Borszagivika Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Alexander Crnvolenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the Joint District Office in Kiev, State Administration for Unsatisfactory asphalt cover of roads, sidewalks, inter-quartered roads in the city of Kiev. Kirila Kulikova, head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the use of legislative measures to effectively and objectively verify the legality of construction of a capital building on the roof of a semi-territorial parking in the street of Lebedev-Kumac and Zemlice in the Solomonian district of Kiev. Thus, honourable national MPs, 73 parliamentary inquiries have been made. Dear National Deputies! I am announcing for consideration the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income and Property Taxes and the Protocol thereto. Is there no objection to the vote? None. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification. Take it off the vote. I said, no warnings? There were no warnings. We're taking down the vote. Who's in favour of considering the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. [[10:42:59]] For 216 Decision taken. Anatoly Ivanovich Merkovsky, please, very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u17	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Taxation on Income and Property Taxes and the Protocol thereto, signed on 23 January 2012 in Mexico City. As the convention is organized, Ukraine’s legal basis for tax matters is expanded. This convention creates favourable conditions for investors in Ukraine and Mexico, stimulates the business initiative of entrepreneurs, regulates the issue between international taxation of income in bilateral relations between States. The purpose of this convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territories of both countries. This will be achieved both by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Mexico, depending on their origin and by taking into account the taxpayer’s tax obligations of one State the amount of taxes paid in another State’s territory. In addition, the Convention aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination in the creation of mechanisms for improving cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Mexico through the establishment of procedures for mutual reconciliation of issues, also provides for the exchange of tax information. The convention envisions such tax rates for dividends, interest and royalty. These rates meet the requirements of the OECD Model Convention. Dividends are a total wage of 15.5. For dividends, if the actual owner is a company owned directly, at least 25 percent of the equity of a company that pays dividends, interest and royalty, the total interest is 10 percent. The request for acceptance of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u18	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u19	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs has carefully considered the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income and Property Taxes and the Protocol thereto and recommends that the Supreme Council accept this as a law. According to the reporter, this Convention is a framework and will help to avoid double taxation and avoid tax evasion, which will reduce tax barriers to foreign investment and trade in both countries. This is particularly important with regard to Ukraine, since its tax legislation provides for the avoidance of double taxation only on the basis of the signing of bilateral agreements. According to Minfin's explanatory note, the ratification of the convention will not require additional budgetary funding from the State. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the agreement. Please support the Committee's decision in foreign matters and ratify the agreement. It's time to move on. A new agreement with Cyprus, where these issues remain entirely unresolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u20	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please put your name on the information board. National Deputy Korge, please. Yuri Hanustzak, microphone, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u21	Hanusztak, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! Well, at first glance, this kind of orderly decision and it needs to be made, but, in fact, we have problems with those countries, the deratification of such agreements is more urgent, primarily with Cyprus. Then, I fear that the ratification of some tax avoidance treaties may work against Ukraine. Well, for example, the United States withdraws taxes from all Americans, no matter where they live and do their business. Then, it is time for us to come up with a solution to double indulging issues. Because we're doing it? Our workers are investing in building the economies of neighbouring countries and distant European states, and they are coming to Ukraine to receive a pension. So the question is to make agreements with all these countries to transfer their pensions here to Ukraine. And to pay them their pensions, it's long overdue. So all of these issues need to be considered very carefully and in the complex. And this decision, of course, needs to be ratified at least because it will allow some Mexican fats to deposit money here, because in Ukraine we have passive incomes that are practically not taxed. And Ukraine will soon become such a tax haven for those who make their capital at interest on bank deposits, and we are actually growing a generation of injuries that are harmful to them.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u22	Thank you. Yuri Carmazin, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u23	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! We are now in short-term mode, as is currently the case in short-term Parliament, and we are asked to consider a very serious issue: the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States of America. Now, for good reason, Alexander Czarvolenko and I were asked to consider the matter fully. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, because we had to ask the government: What are the risks of ratifying such an agreement, and what is the volume of the trade between these countries, and what is the size of the investment? Not to be the case after the ratification by the Soviet Union of an agreement between the USSR Government and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the avoidance of double taxation since October 29, 1982. In a strange way, Ukraine does not comply with its own Constitution, or 5,000 laws, and we do so by letter. What is it? Why? And because two years later, in 2010 and 2011, our revenue laundering from Ukraine was estimated at $53 billion,397 million. This is the size of Ukraine’s annual budget. And everyone is silent, and the government is silent, and it was possible to increase people’s pensions twice! They're silent, because it's convenient, because businesses that are being bought out, including what's being planned right now: privatization of nuclear energy -- it's all happening at these costs that are being spent offshore. That's why I support Oleg Belarus's point of view, but I would like you to pay attention to the appeal of the Chief Expert Office that says that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u24	Finish up, please. Yuri Anatolyovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u25	I'm done. And I think we can support it now, but we need to take these issues more seriously. And, Vladimir Mikhailovich, let's ask a question about Cyprus. There's my bill, because then Timoshenko's bill didn't pass. Let's solve this, the proud peer, and we'll denounce the Cyprus deal. This will benefit the Ukrainian people. Do at least one good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u26	Thank you. No, well, I'd just like to add: do one more good thing. That'll be more accurate. Prepare, please. I'm going to the profile committee to prepare for the consideration of this issue. Dear National Deputies! The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Mexican United States on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income and property taxes and the Protocol thereto is submitted to the vote. [[Registration number 0273]] Please vote. [[10:53:15]] For 267 Decision taken. This is 10549. I ask the secretariat to study which committee is to prepare the matter. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation, the Project on Enhancing the Efficiency of Electricity Transmission, is being announced for consideration. [[2006 and 2007 assimilation]] [[upgrading substations]] [[Registration number 0274]] Is there no objection to the vote? None. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on Financial Cooperation, the project " Enhancing the Efficiency of Electricity Transmission ". [[2006 and 2007 assimilation]] [[upgrading substations]] [[Registration number 0274]] Please vote. [[10:54:36]] For 261 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we must now include in the order of the day a series of draft laws. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending section X of the Code of Land. [[on the settlement of the question of the conduct of trade]] [[Registration number 11261]] Please vote. [[10:55:20]] For 233 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Please sign up for this project. Yes, name, please show me. Cory's handing over the right to speak to Yuri Hanustak, right? Yes, Yuri Hanushtak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustak, Fatherland. This bill on urban activity is contrary to the President’s letter and because he spoke on Friday at the Association meeting of the city of Ukraine. He was talking about decentralization of power, while this bill in the part of the planning of the city shows centralization of power. Why? Because planning documents are made not all over the territory of rural, rural, city councils, but only within the boundaries. So we're building a lattice country, like, a chatty country. It's called a raisin bride. In the middle of the raisin is self-governance. The rest is government. Because all other territories are being transferred to the inseparable rule of government. We've already done this to the ground. Now we're still doing this with planning. But that's absolutely absurd. Because communication, infrastructure can't be planned in a gap from the overall spatial planning scheme. And this should be the center of these settlements and authorities, whose jurisdiction ends where the jurisdiction of the local self-government authorities starts at the same level. So this project can't be voted on in any way, even considering that some of the positions that are there, and there are 33 pages of text, they're useful. But what's completely centralizing power is what's killing, that's the spoon of a stick that corrupts a barrel of honey. And you can't do that if you're going to do anything afterwards to report to the President who voted for decentralization. Well, be afraid.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! Taking into account the warnings made by Yuri Hanustzak, the voting proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Urban Activity Regulation, please vote. [[Registration number 11252]] [[10:58:37]] For 237 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Treasury Accounts is put to the vote. [[Registration number 11220]] Please vote. [[10:59:10]] For 247 Decision taken. Yes. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the financing of the land reform programme]] Please sign up. Yeah, let's see your name. National Deputy Corge. It's Ganushka again. Yuri Hanustak, please. Next up is Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Well, first of all, Vladimir Mikhailovich, well, I was yelling that under the previous law, he's completely balancing the budget system. It's to allow a towel, and not just treasury, because it goes against the principles of building a single system that is budgetary. Or we're working in a French method, which is the French method of predicting that there's no working cash and they work by issuing bonds for 3 months and paying off, because there's a principle that predicts that business can't be taxed more than this needs public, public needs. Or we're working on the way we went. That is, by fixing the rolling cash that should cover all cash breaks. If you work at all by, well, as you have to, let's increase this quantity, not 1 percent, but 3 percent, and that's enough. But what's done is to completely release Ukraine's budget in there. You can't do that. Same thing as this law that's being passed. Well, I realized that by the law that actually created the land bank, the land reform had ended, and the need, well, even to make some decent gestures, had fallen away. So they decided that the money that was going to go to land reform, which was going to go to the world cadastre, the Earth cadastre, and they decided to do something about it. And that's what the project's all about. Well, you can't do that, well, after all, you have to respect yourself if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u30	Yuri Carmazin. Yuri Anatolyevich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u31	Yuri Carmazin. I ask you to give the floor to the representative of the People's Opposition, Oleg Lášk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u32	Yes, the word is Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u33	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The question under consideration is a very important question. I meet with voters in my district every day, 208 Bachmack County, mostly residents of rural areas. And at each meeting, peasants ask questions and complain that they have extremely serious problems with the formation of state acts on the ground: on the docking grounds, on the ground floor. People paid for the money and waited years for it to be issued. They've been waiting for years. Many people died without waiting for their national acts. From night to night, the old grandparents have to take turns, go world-to-world to the Land, take turns to stand up to the landowner, and who won't take it for the first time, and the second, and the fifth, that poor peasant has to go to get that documentation. And so I'm going to the government, and I'm going to return this free extradition of state acts to the ground, as we did for the government of Yulia Timoshenko. We then issued 3 million State acts on land free of charge. The peasant wrote a statement, went to the silrada, filed the application, and a month later they brought a free act to the ground. I personally published 22,000 such acts in the Chernigiv region. Generally speaking, thanks to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko, who today is a miserable woman in prison, millions of peasants thank her for receiving free acts on earth. And that's why I'm going to the government of Azarov. Please allocate the budget, do not crave, eat 670 dollars a kilo, and issue free acts to the peasants so that they can finally receive them and inherit their land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting a motion to the vote. One minute, please, Alexandrovska, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u35	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues! We propose to support this bill because today a totally intolerable situation has arisen because people cannot obtain and actually form their right to land. This applies not only to rural areas, but also to citizens. There are a lot of citizens who come to us as reception deputies who complain: for years they have been documenting and denied by all means that this work can be done very quickly. This is a lack of funding. Therefore, given that the bill proposes to increase funding for work relating to the extradition of land acts to citizens, I propose that the bill be supported. And we're going to take control of what's going on in the cities and settlements for the extradition of these land acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u36	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the financing of the land reform programme]] [[Registration number 11223]] Please vote. [[11:06:01]] For 260 Decision taken. Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act of the Law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2012. [[on issues related to the holding of accounts with the State Reserve]] Please sign up. Yes, put your names on the board. Fedun refuses. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! We propose not to vote, not to support this bill. What is our main motive? The recent practice of debt cancellation, pre-budget debt, tax debt, debt between State-owned enterprises and not only State-owned debt has been sufficiently widespread. In particular, this proposal, which has been submitted to us, concerns this issue: cancellation of old debts. I believe that such issues cannot be addressed without an audit of all these issues. In each particular case, we must be sure that this money is not lodged in someone's pockets, is not hidden under the supremacy of bankruptcy, and this money is now taken from the pocket of the State, in fact, from the pocket of the people of Ukraine. I therefore propose not to support this bill, more importantly, to introduce the sea. Proposal for a moratorium on such matters. Once again, debt cancellation can only take place after a comprehensive audit and we are confident that we will be paying debts to those enterprises that are not actually able to take money from the population. It's very common to use the practice when you and I cheat on debt, including utilities, and they continue from the population of you. In fact, from the budget, they still terrorize the population, terrorize people who are unable to pay, in fact, these very expensive communal tariffs. We therefore propose that this bill should not be supported or voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u38	Yuri Hanustak, please. Faction "BUT" is "Paternity."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u39	"Jurius the Doomsday, the Motherland." Ladies and gentlemen! Look, there's some very evil position in this bill. On the one hand, almost a billion are subsidized by the local budget. That's good. But there is no actual distribution of these subsidies. Then. Where do they come from? It's like this money is being pulled out of the sleeve by the special fund and by the general fund. We already have a report on the implementation of the State Budget in nine months, and we know what kind of correction we have? And we know that we have this money? So that's going to be a violation of the budget code. Then. The very fact that this bill came into existence is evidence of a completely unsatisfactory planning of the State budget. Because, in fact, Alexandrovska already said that, we actually have the local budgets now "lie." We have nothing to cover these debts that arise. We have nothing to pay teachers, doctors right now. We have now the Treasury is doing nothing, and it's not even missing out on the revenue that comes into the local budgets, and it's starting to pick: Ladies, that's not what I'm going to give, because there's no money in the treasury account. We have very few projects that we can do. This is what we just voted in favour of putting into the agenda, which shows that the problems in the state of liquidity are completely unsatisfactory. That means only one thing is that instead of having a team of professionals, a team of completely unskilled people came to power. We have to do something. We can't go on like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u40	Dear National Deputies! Taking into account the discussion, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on issues related to the holding of accounts with the State Reserve]] [[Registration number 11250]] Please vote. [[11:11:06]] For 229 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, now the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the purchase of telecommunications equipment]] [[11211]] I'll bet the vote on the inclusion proposal. Take it off, please. Alla Alexandrovska, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u41	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! The financial year is not yet over, but you and I already know that the figures will be negative. We know with you what difficulty the Government is trying to implement this budget, and we know that it is unlikely to be implemented. The budget is growing, social programs on the verge of non-fulfilment. As of 1 October, new indicators of social standards have been introduced, and people are outraged. The minimum pension has been increased by 16 bracelets by 16 bracelets. People say, "Are you making fun of us? What can I buy for 16 bracelets today?" And you and I, this bill, we're asked to support the cost of acquiring new telecommunications equipment to modernize these networks in Ukraine. In principle, it would be nice, but do we have money for it? And we're offered 231 million dollars today for this upgrade. Will you please tell me we're going to live without modernization? I think we'll live. And the second question I'm interested in. Who's gonna be the contractor on this job today? Who's going to get this 231 million as income for the work they've done? I propose that a moratorium be imposed on the expenditure of the 2012 State budget for those needs that are not of social importance and necessary. We are not guaranteed to pay the budget today. Today, we face tremendous challenges in this regard. And we are encouraged to set 230 million targets that are not essential to Ukraine today. I propose not to vote in favour of the introduction of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the purchase of telecommunications equipment]] Please vote. [[11:13:52]] For 236 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending Appendix No.3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on nuclear-fuel-produced enterprises]] [[Registration number 11265]] The proposal to include this bill in the agenda is put to the vote. Please vote. [[11:14:29]] For 263 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012. [[on the financing of the Dnipropetrovsk Metro’s Completion Project]] [[Registration number 11257]] Please. No, no, there's Vladimir Yavorowski. And we'll vote. And there will be Alla Alexandrovska, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Clearly, these funds for Dnipropetrovsk need to be allocated. But on the other hand, the problem is much bigger and more important. And the fact that we're so constantly picking up this budget today tells us that it's been folded unprofessionally and unprofessionally accepted. That we cut him all the time, chew him up and chew him up. But there is another problem. There's a subway problem in Troastina, where 300,000 people live in Kiev, and every morning 100,000 people break out of bed and go to Kiev here, to the central districts to work, and then come back to work at night. And unfortunately, 4.5 million are allocated to the capital of Kiev and then added: and also to the construction of the subway for Troy. Can you imagine that amount? It's a straight-up, straight-up laugh over all of this. That's why I'm saying once again, we'll support and we'll have to support, of course, let the Dnipropetrovsk build, but next year we have to put the national budget into a separate line of subway construction for the Trinity. Once again, it's 300,000 people, the largest microregion. These are the 2 district centers that we have. As a result, it will be necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u44	Alla Alexandrovska, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u45	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Dear colleagues, that's exactly what I'm asking, and why it's not about the town of Harikov, because we also have an out-of-work subway and a subway branch, which was recently introduced, requires continued development and development. But naturally, as a harrkovchanka, I would like the money to be spent on the harrkow subway as well. But I would like to draw attention to the proposals that have been made to us right now. The Communist faction will support this bill, and we support the idea of providing 152 million euros for the subway in Dnepropetrovsk. I note that this is practically the credit that we receive from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development under State guarantees and for the local budget, in fact, it will be the money that will be allocated from the State budget. The layout for the city is good and the schematic is right. But note that we continue to raise debts with you, because today, in fact, this bill shows that the State is unable to implement its own State programme for the development of the metropolis, which exists in Ukraine, but is virtually unallocated. That's why the question is, what about the Kiev subway? What about the harrkow subway? Because the actual program is stopped and not being implemented. So once again, the Communist faction will support this bill, support the idea of making money for Dniepropetrovsk to build a subway there. But we note the need to make serious efforts to implement the State Programme for the Development of Metropolitan Networks in Ukraine at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u46	Alexander Blackwill, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u47	Alexander Blackwolf. I would also like to say that the construction of the metropolis has always been part of the state budget and the government program for many years. In Kiev alone, 50 / 50 were built: half at the expense of the budget, at the expense of the state budget, and half at the local cost. But after the "young team" of Cherniwiecki arrived, at local expense, construction stopped altogether. And now Popov has no money in the city of Kiev. There's no simple reason, because the Party of Regions deletes 50 percent of the revenue of the individuals in Kiev to the state budget every year, which is neither in Dnipropetrovsk nor in Kharkiv, anywhere. Thus, the city of Kyiv loses 8 billion each year to build a metropolis. We have to have a nationwide program. I support the construction of the metropolis in Kharkiv, Donetsk, Lviv, and Dnipropetrovsk in other cities of Ukraine. But this year we were going to finish the Red Army-Kurenow line in Kiev, build two stations called Ipodrom and Teremka. So, the Ipoddrom was funded, and there was no money on the "Terms." And now it's going to be done no sooner than because, in the middle of the next year, if it's going to be properly funded. And there are other problems. There's a three-way problem that hasn't been built for decades, and that's supposed to be a line from Julien Airport to Trinity. And the problems of extending the Sirec-Kuren line to the Vineyard, the Vitran Mountains, and to the Shevchenka Square, which was in the General Development Plan of Kiev in 2000 and was to be built in 2009 and is still not being built, and there is not even a project. So I'm now officially proposing to fund this line for the next year and, above all, to allocate 20 million dollars in 2013 to design this syre-pecre line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 is put to the vote. [[on the financing of the completion project of the metropolis in Dnipropetrovsk]] [[Registration number 11257]] Please vote. [[11:20:46]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to you the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 to compensate for the difference between prices for the purchase of imported natural gas and its implementation. Please sign in. Yes, the names. Fedun, he's refusing. Volodymyr Yavorowski, BUT-Batychina faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u49	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear colleagues, this one is so hazy. These are all our gas problems. I don't know if it's true or not. And someone might answer that question, perhaps the chairman of the committee? We get 20 billion of our own gas, we control the price of that gas. According to experts, we may be completely sufficient for the communal needs of our native Ukrainian gas, where it can be self-sustaining, plus a small, let's say, margin to further develop these wells and so forth. But as far as I know, how it was in the press, this is a report that actually is mixing Russian gas with Ukrainian gas, and Ukrainian is going to go to the price of this Russian gas, and it's going to go to the population. I can't understand why we, let's say, have to waste gas on Ahmtov's businesses. He sells metal at world prices? Let's get gas at world prices. But 20 billion of our gas, Ukrainian, should go specifically, specifically, directly to the needs of our population, to heat houses, hospitals, schools, and so forth. That's why I'd like to have the answers to these questions, or else I just can't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u50	Alexander Blackwolf, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u51	Alexander Blackwolf. Dear friends, well, this is an example of how money from the budget goes to the needs of Ukrainian oligarchs. No Ukrainian citizen, other than oil and metallurgical owners, is interested in adopting the bill. We need our own natural gas for municipal and population needs. If there is not enough, our local authorities need to work better to ensure the economy of this resource. There is no such need to waste gas for industry. If it is not convenient to produce natural gas in Ukraine, it should not be produced, at least the production of the income of the oligarchs should not be paid by pensioners, socially defenseless population groups, Chernobyl, Afghans, and other citizens who would better receive this money as budget assistance. So I think it's a completely disgraceful offer and I'm going to suggest that we turn this money down. If someone has extra money, we have a lot of budget problems that should be funded. It is both a disgraceful state of housing-communal agriculture, and a disgraceful state, a wretched state of roads, and transportation problems, and low wages, and low pensions, and a terrible state of health insurance, and a low level of schooling. We just had enough to help our oligarchs earn income at the expense of Ukrainian citizens. I think we need to get this disgraceful bill out of the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u52	Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u53	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I would like to recommend to colleagues who have just spoken before me to read the documents carefully. All the rhetoric of their speeches is directed towards the complete disorientation of the people who listen to our work today and to our broadcast from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill makes it quite clear that 3.9 billion grivens are being channelled to finance a new budget programme to compensate for the difference between the prices for the purchase of imported natural gas and its implementation for the production of thermal energy for the population. Everyone knows, and it has been discussed on several occasions in this room, that the gas we are producing in Ukraine is indeed low at cost, but it is not enough to provide the heating organizations with the necessary amounts of gas. That is why they are forced to import gas for this purpose. We Communists have repeatedly demanded that the price of gas within Ukraine, imported, should be reduced in a targeted manner, by allocating money from the budget, so that the gas would be cheaper on a cheap tariff of heat and hot water production. They finally heard us. And it's very bad that it wasn't done in the budget at once. And we will demand, as has been the case before, that the 2013 draft budget immediately put in the necessary amounts for the reduction in the price of imported gas for the production of heat for the population. We therefore support these proposals. They guarantee the stability of tariffs and, above all, they guarantee that the tariff on heat and hot water will not be increased in Ukraine. We therefore demand that this bill be put on the agenda and, of course, should be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the statement by Alla Alexandrowski, who, I think, is one of the few who really knows the content of this document. I'm informing you that we're getting, dear colleagues, I understand, we need to scream. But we're getting somewhere between 18 and 20 billion, we need 36 billion for utilities. In addition, we have ratified with enthusiasm the energy paper that requires that we have the price of the inner one that is being mined, and that which we are buying is the same. So you don't have to yell, you have to look at the saint first. But what I'm asking is, when we're looking at this document, a report from the Ministry of Fuel and Energy to give us some information on how much gas is being produced and at what price, as it relates to the energy paper and so on, that we have a real picture. I'm asking you, you don't have to show that "proud" words, but you don't have to. Honourable National Deputies, taking into account the discussion, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine 2012 on compensation for the difference and between prices of imported natural gas and its implementation. [[Registration number 11274]] Please vote. [[11:28:31]] For 259. Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2012 to increase the amount of expenditure foreseen for the development of culture and the administration of state corporate rights and property. Please sign in. National MP Yuri Hanustzak, I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u55	Jury's shame, Fatherland's. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, those draft changes to the state budget, the figures that appear in the projects, are no longer playing. There's going to be a cumulative effect to add, and there's going to be a whole different amount of revenue and expenditure. Then, what I've been paying attention to is, there's no actual position of Minfin, and we need to get along with Minfin. What does that mean? It really means that the government, with a huge gap, with a budget deficit of more than 10 percent of GDP, actually after being stressed here, including with the President's social initiatives, it took a very interesting position: come on, come on, fill, and then I'll fund selectively. And actually this effect is already happening, and it's already coming. There's really a small amount here -- 71 million, and really, culture needs to give money. So take them away from the President's Administration, where they'll be destitute, where they're being built, even incomprehensiblely, because not the government houses, but almost their own homes, take the money out of there. No, increase the budget deficit again. Because what's written here is to increase the amount of removals from the National Bank is a fig leaf. Because everything that's taken from the National Bank, the excess of revenue over expenditure is a fiction, because it actually means that it includes a machine, it has access to a machine. The National Bank, by definition, should not be profitable, it should not have any income. All of his expenses should be balanced and go to the maintenance of his equipment and to the pursuit of his activities, that is, that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, Grivkowski, the Fedun refuse, I see. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to include in the agenda of the bill is about making changes to the State budget for this year. [[Registration number 11275]] [[on the increase in expenditure foreseen for cultural development and governance of national corporate rights and property]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:32:45]] For 253 Decision taken. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to reverse the registration of a declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 11242]] I'm voting on the proposal to put the matter in order of the day. Please vote. Take off the vote, the warning is given to Yuri Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u57	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a warning on this bill, which provides for amendments to article 13 of the Compliance Confirmation Act, article 23 of the Consumer Rights Act, 32 on standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures for the non-registration of the declaration of conformity. This registration of the declaration was introduced in Ukraine due to the absence of agreements between Ukraine and importing States on mutual recognition of conformity assessment work. Its purpose is to verify the existence of documented evidence in the manufacturer of the conformity of the product with its requirements, including the existence of product testing protocols carried out in the competent laboratories with all the required indicators of conformity of production with the technical regulations developed under the EU Directives. I would like to point out that a separate order has been set for the production of third countries to be admitted to the consumer market of the EU countries, which provides for mandatory confirmation of the conformity of production to the requirements of the EU Directives or the conclusion of inter-State agreements on mutual recognition of work in conformity with Article 6 of the TT Treaty. For this reason, I believe that in the Russian Federation -- I want you to know -- which is the main trading partner of Ukraine, technical regulations are being introduced for production, which also provides for mandatory registration of the manufacturer's declarations of conformity, i.e. the legislation of Ukraine is in line with the legislation of the Russian Federation with which the agreement is made, and the proposed changes in the articles are not compatible with each other, and therefore the EU does not allow Ukraine's production into its market. That's why I'm asking you not to include this issue in the agenda. We are asked to do so by those who have examined this legislation. And to the best of my knowledge.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u58	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u59	I remind you that according to paragraph 296 of the report of the working group on Ukraine's accession to the WTO, I quote: "The legislation of Ukraine, which regulates standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, has been brought into full compliance with the TVT Agreement, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u60	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Yeah, we got everything, right? Olga Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u61	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Fatherland. Certainly, Ukrainian legislation needs to be harmonized with European Union legislation. Only, Your Honor, I can't understand why I'm turning Ukraine into a dumpster. I can guess, for example, where now a crazy bunch of Becherovka, absinthe, nutritious meat and all that, this need that is no longer to be implemented anywhere but our country. It's a shame that government and government care about solving this problem only for businesses and oligarchs, not when it comes to human rights, in this case, for consumers. Raise your hand, which one of us is not a consumer. So it's about all of us, starting with an A-name, ending with me. As a result of the adoption of the bill, the final consumer will not be able to know whether the production meets the requirements of the technical regulations required by the WTO and the EU directives or not. Once again, there is a way to sell low quality products from all over the world to Ukrainians. It is good if the production is marked with an EU mark. What if I don't? Agreements on mutual recognition of work on conformity assessment between Ukraine and the country of origin of goods, if not available? How, then, can a person learn about the properness of the product? Or can we do experiments already? Is it all right? Is it all right? Is it all right? Are we going to survive? Are we going to survive? This bill cannot be supported as proposed because it requires careful work. If you don't have a conscience. It's enough to understand, then please vote, but only on the first reading, so that we can somehow help our country not to turn into a garbage can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u62	It's just about getting into the agenda. And then there's the fact. Dear colleagues, there is a motion to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to reverse the registration of the declaration of conformity. [[Registration number 11242]] Please vote. [[11:38:27]] For 233 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, now draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on payment to the court]] [[Registration number 11183]] If there's no objection, I'm voting on the proposal to include this issue in the agenda. Take off the vote, please! Helen Shustik. One show, and we're going to vote right now. Let us preserve the democratic regulatory process.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u63	Olena Shustik, Julia Timoshenko faction "The Fatherland." Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio and television viewers! A year ago, only the majority changed the Law on the Judicial Congregation and increased it for citizens and legal persons 10 times. This has proved to be too small, and the government now wants to double the amount of property claims, including the dissolution of marriage and the compensation for moral damage in bankruptcy cases. Citizens, who are subject to administrative charges, will be put under the grip of the grip of the city, and now they will have to pay not only a fine but also a court order. Let me remind you that court funding is a duty of the State, 130 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. You want to translate it into our fellow citizens who, at the expense of financial hardship, can no longer go to the courts. There is a threat of the final conversion of the courts into closed corporations, which unfortunately will depend only on the size of the wallet. The Faction "BUT" – "Paternity" proposes to withdraw this bill from consideration, not to put it in order of the day. By the way, the science-expert administration has made a number of significant remarks to it and wrote that it should be returned to the author for further work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u64	Honorary colleagues, taking into account the presentation and recommendations of the scientific and expert management, have put to the vote the proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on payment to the court]] Please vote. [[11:41:04]] For 238. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we now need to consider the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine on the declaration of property, income, expenditure and financial obligations. [[Registration number 11262]] I'm voting on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:41:46]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! I ask the committee heads, first of all the Committee on Budget Affairs, to prepare all the necessary documents on the bills that relate to changes to the state budget. So that we can look at them at the evening session, according to the rules. Just a minute. In line with the regulations, considering that we will be able to bring together the discussion of draft laws that deal with changes to the state budget. Please, Mikhail Chechtov, what's the point?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u65	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! We have the last bill on the agenda, 11005, which has combined, has accumulated five tax-related bills. We've merged together into a single bill. But one bill already related to the tax of KPC 9347 did not enter this one, a joint one. Please put to the vote in favour of the inclusion of 9347. This is a bill related to the taxation of the military industrial complex, which did not enter the combined 11005.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u66	The fact is that this bill 9347 is already included in the agenda, judging from the number of this bill. When we come to the consideration of this package of bills, I'd like to prepare and submit. Is that in second reading? So you need a table to be. I ask the Secretariat to examine immediately whether there is a table. And then, if we look at it, we'll look at it together. Dear colleagues! It is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the National Commission, which regulates public services. The committee suggests that we consider the matter. Plus the second question. This is a draft of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the regulation of the activities of utilities. We have to look at them in a bag, together. I'm voting on a bill proposal, registration numbers 11030 and 10368, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:44:21]] For 234 Decision taken. Reporters: Head of the National Commission for Public Services, Valérie Saratov, National Deputy of Ukraine, Igor Głushchenko. And the co-reporter from the committee is Sergey Maybeard. Yes, please, Valery Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u67	The Honorary Presidium, the Honourable People's Deputies, today the Commission, as a public authority in the field of municipal services, licenses the activities of central water supply and water supply, production, transportation and supply of thermal energy, imposes tariffs on municipal services to licensees*** the Commission, supervises the operation of its licensees, imposes sanctions on them for violating their licensing conditions, and controls their investment programmes. On the basis of established powers, the bill proposes to amend article 6 of the Law on State Regulations in the Field of Municipal Services, article 18. The Drinking Water and Drinking Water Act, articles 16, 26. The Law on Heat Supply and Article 31 of the Law on Housing and Communal Services, according to which commissions will be given the following powers: approval of investment programs for operators in the field of heat supply, centralized water supply and water supply, licensing of activities carried out by the commission; development and approval of the order of supply, treatment, approval and investment programmes by natural monopolies and adjacent market operators in the areas of heat supply, central water supply and water supply; development and approval of orders; methods for the formation of tariffs for communal services for natural monopolies and adjacent markets in the areas of heat supply, centralized water supply. Taking into account the commission's mandate in the regulation of payment-accounting transactions in the area of utility services, with a view to sorting out the issue of the calculation of utilities for energy consumption, it is proposed that the commission be given the right to set the order of accounting for the special account, the use of the specified funds and the control of their expenditure. The adoption of the bill will allow the National Plan to meet the requirements and improve the system for stimulating the investment activities of utilities, providing for a predictable and transparent procedure for setting tariffs for utilities, and allowing more discipline for energy consumption. In the light of the above, the Commission requests the support of the draft law. And a few extra words. So it happened that at the same time there were two draft laws: ours and the law that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u69	10368. These issues were discussed together at the meeting of the profiling committee. We supported the proposal of a professional committee to adopt Law 10368 as a basis, and in preparing for second reading, to take into account all the provisions of Law 11030 and adopt a single law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u70	Thank you, sit down, please. Now, Igor Mikolaiovich, a report on your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u71	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Deputies! Ukraine's draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on regulation of the activities of utility operators amends Ukraine's Law on Heat Supply and Ukraine's Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water. [[Registration number 10368]] [[of 19.04.2012]] The draft Law defines the obligation of authorized bodies to establish heat-, water and water tariffs at least below economically sound costs, taking into account the marginal level of profitability, and provides budgeted costs to compensate for differences in tariffs if they are set below economically sound costs, taking into account the marginal level of profitability. The draft law also imposes the obligation on heat, water, water and water companies to open accounts in an authorized bank in a special use mode, at which the costs of consumers are listed as thermal energy, central water supply and water supply. In doing so, it is only for companies with tariffs that are not below economically sound costs, taking into account the marginal level of profitability. The draft law also specifies the mandate of the National Commission for the Regulation of Municipal Services as the sole independent central regulator. In addition, the Ministry insists on preserving the powers of the central executive authorities to develop and approve tariffs and procedures for the development and approval of investment programs. For my part, I make a proposal to take into account the comments of the Ministry when preparing Bill 10368 for the second reading through the incorporation into the Bill of Law of Common Decisions of the National Commission which regulates activities in this area, and the Ministry of Tariffs and Investment Programme Procedures. So I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u72	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u73	So I propose to support Bill 10368 in the first reading and preparing it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u74	Yes, the head of the Committee's subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing and Regional Policy, Sergey Maybeard. Please, the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u75	At its meeting on September 18, the Committee decided to consider the draft laws of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activities of utilities operators and amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the powers of the National Commission, which regulates public utilities. [[Registration number 10368]] [[Registration number 11030]] Since both bills propose to amend the same articles of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulatory Functions of Naziscomisis, the bill has more norms and absorbs government. The main scientific and expert management of Project No. 10368 notes that the decision on the appropriateness of adoption of the bill should be taken with a view to taking into account the relevant conclusion of the Government, the conclusion of Project No. 11030. The administration generally supports the bill and believes that it should be considered at the same time as Bill 10368, because it proposes similar changes to the same articles of Ukrainian laws as the committee did. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council to adopt a draft law on amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the regulation of the activity of the subject in the field of municipal services, to draft a draft bill to take into account the observations and proposals of the subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, as well as the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain laws of the Ukraine concerning the powers of the National Commission, which implements the national regulation in the field of municipal services submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to bring it to the attention of the Supreme Ukraine in a second reading. [[Registration number 10368]] [[Registration number 11030]] Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u76	Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Names, please. Gennady Zdirko, group of Reforms for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Gennady Zadirko, Mikolayevščina, MP group "Reforms for the Future". We're going to support Bill 10368, but I just wanted to say a few words. Now, people's deputies work very often in the districts today, because they're ahead of the election. What I'm trying to say is, for example, I'm saddened by the situation in the city of Oczek. The utility, the tariffs don't match the commercial component. But it turns out that a year ago, the Tax Inspectorate released VAT from this utility, and then for more than a year, people paid for the use of water ducts, water canal services, and, of course, no one counted VAT. And who's going to do the math now? We have a national commission here, representatives of the Minregonbud. Of course, this bill needs, of course, utilities have to work for real costs, but I'm afraid there's going to be a real abyss in this issue, because the normal commercial component is going to be the core. And I very much ask you to provide order in the city of Oczek with utilities. There is now a third community debt company, hundreds of wages and pensions, and people are not retired. Of course, our parliamentary group will support this bill, which we need and the state needs, but we will make appropriate adjustments for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u78	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is the Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u79	Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT is the Fatherland." Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, projects are interesting, projects even where they are needed, at least because they have an investment component. But I say again, there's always spoons in a barrel of honey. First of all, why should investment programs approve an authorized body rather than the Cabinet of Ministers that was before? I'm talking about this because it's budget-related, and the authorized authority can only provide projects, but it's actually the Cabinet of Ministers, as a whole, which is balancing the budget in Ukraine. Moreover, other interested ministries are involved in the commission dealing with tariff issues, so this cannot be confirmed by an authorized authority, even if it is not good. If there are other ministries, the commission itself must always be approved by this very body. Then who actually approves our tariffs? We don't see this project. So it's going around the methodology that's confirmed, who specifically approves the tariffs, which body? Based on what we actually have, I'm looking at Kiev and in many other cities, we actually have monopolized this area. Moreover, it has become privatized. Moreover, those bodies, those who privatized, they put mixed costs in tariffs. So the ones that are being implemented not only in Kiev and other cities, but the balance sheet is going on, how these things are being distributed, I don't know right now. So there has to be a balance sheet and a tariff on each.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u80	Yes, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u81	We have to take these questions into account. These questions need to be taken into account in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u82	Thank you. Ariev, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, Mr. Yuri has literally removed the issue of tariff transparency from his tongue. Because in this case, of course, it is worth moving on to a commercially sound set-up of utility tariffs. On the other hand, it is still impossible to understand how tariffs are formed for those and other utilities. At least no clear answer from the controllers and regulators is possible. And it's kind of like the quality of services. Where residents of certain homes or consumers can push the service provider, at least he tries to keep it in. In other places, you can even create commissions, do whatever you want, but the quality of service is low and still. In doing so, tariffs are applied even when no service is provided. But it's more of a question than Jack's. Moreover, there is still no normal mechanism for controlling monopolies, such as Kievenergo. And this summer in Kiev, we had a very interesting situation. Kievenergo, owned today by Renat Ahemtov, actually owed huge costs to gas suppliers for heating water. As a result, people sat without heat above the standard, over the time of planned renovations, which takes place in the summer for heating repairs. At this point, the controlling authorities did not respond in any way because the oligarchs control the supply of services, and the controlling organs form from those people who are now subject to the oligarhams. So this law, in this case, will not make any changes, but will only add authority to the controlling authorities, which are formed from large businessmen who control themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u84	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, I understand that pre-election stress prevents me from being sober about the consideration of specific bills. It's not about the oligarchs who control it, it's stupid! Look at Bill 9572, we've been given a comparative table. Ukraine will have a single state system of monitoring, production, supply, transport, consumption and payment for fuel and energy resources and utilities. This system will be put in place, this is the President's will, because he said the system should be designed, understood for everyone. There's no more pressing problem in the area today, the major MPs will confirm it than the housing-communal tariffs. Incomprehensible, confusing, unreasonable. The introduction of this single state system will enable a clear, clear picture to be given to every consumer of these services. Therefore, these bills can be voted on as a basis and included in the second consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u86	You all have it, don't you? Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. I remind you again of the committee's proposal. The committee proposes to accept as the main bill a parliamentary bill and to take into account the proposals made in the government bill when preparing for the second reading. [[10368]] But according to. Yes, according to the Rules, voting is the first. is put to the vote a parliamentary bill, i.e. 10368, since the government has the number 11030. So I'm voting on a draft MP law to adopt it as a basis. This is a draft of the Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the regulation of the activities of utilities. Please vote. [[12:01:33]] For 230 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a recess of up to 12 hours for 31 minutes. After a break, we will consider the question of the appointment and release of judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u87	Please invite the deputies into the hall, we'll continue the meetings. Let us consider the question of the election and release of judges. Please, about the selection of judges. Reported by Samsin Igor Leonovich, chairman of the High Qualifying Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u88	The President-in-Office, the Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine has carried out a review of the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53 and 64 of this Act, and has reviewed the referrals of citizens, civil society organizations, enterprises, institutions, organizations of all forms of ownership of public authorities and local self-government bodies regarding the activities of candidates for the posts of judges who have come to the Ukrainian High Qualificational Commission at the time of the Commission's consideration of making recommendations for them to be elected as judges on an open-ended basis. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 27, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u89	So, please, let's do 11278.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u90	Choose judges on an untimely basis: Frankowa District Court of Lvova Djakovic Olesz Viktorovna; the commercial court of Kiev, Bosho Vadim Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u91	No notes? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the motion to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order 11278 "The Election of Judges Untimely". Please vote. [[12:33:17]] For 224 Dear colleagues, please be more mobile. I'm voting on a motion to return to the vote. [[12:33:46]] For 239. We're back. I'm putting to the vote a motion for a ruling on the selection of judges. [[Registration number 11278]] Please vote. [[12:34:10]] For 237 It's been decided. Please, Decree 11278-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u92	Select judges who have been elected on an open-ended basis to serve: the Court of Appeal of the Poltava Region of Malichenk Vasil Volodymyrovic; The Court of Appeal of the Herson District of Palkov Valentina Mikolayevna. As for the judge of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, the Lopatyuk of the Grigorovna Hope did not appear. Kyiv's Court of Appeal of Commerce, Goncharov Sergey Augustovich, Shevchenk Edouard Alexandrovich; Lviv’s Economic Court of Appeal, Matthew Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u93	No notes? From Lopatyuk there is, the judge of the District Court of Kiev, a statement. "Please consider my choice of postponement to the next sitting in connection with your vacation." So, with the exception of the last name Lopatyuk, I'm voting on the Order on the Election of Judges. [[Registration number 11278-1]] Please vote. [[12:35:36]] For 256 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u94	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u95	Spatula Hope Gregory for the next meeting. Yes, the assignment was determined. Now for the release of the judges. Please, Koleschenko Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u96	Hello! Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 5, of the fifth part of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 105, 111 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, article 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice proposes to release Humen Natalia Mikolayovna from the office of the judge of the Skolov district court in connection with the violation of the judge's oath, namely for failure to comply with its official obligations to establish an illegal decision to order an appeal with the execution of the valid decision of the household court for bringing 33 million fines, a violation of the order and terms of appeal to the court of appeal, etc. At a meeting of the Supreme Council, the judge did not appear for the second time. The practice and regulations of the Supreme Council allow us to listen without its participation. Please listen without her participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u97	Yeah, right now. Just here to make sure we're safe to some degree. There is a telegram from her that, in connection with her stay at a hospital in the neurological ward of the Skolivian Central District Hospital in Lviv district on September 28, I request that you postpone the review of the application of the High Council of Justice, which will be considered on October 2, at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yes, the High Council of Justice suggests that we consider in absentia.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u98	In harmony with the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u99	To support such an offer, please identify yourself. [[12:37:52]] For-43 Not supported. So let's wait, really, when he gets out of the hospital and comes back to the question. 11279.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u100	Thank you. The Supreme Council of Justice at its meeting on 25 September this year, pursuant to article 126, paragraph 9, of the Fifth Article, article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 100, 109 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the dismissal of judges under general conditions and decided to submit the relevant application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In all the judges, their real will is revealed. There is no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: Zmaku Viktor Grigorovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Sumsk Region, in connection with the application for resignation; Ivaniščuka Anatolia Petrovich, Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region, in connection with the application for resignation; Nikola's Bronislaw Juryovna, the Court of Appeal of the Hmelnicki District, in connection with the application for resignation; Murski Kristina Volodymyrovna, Lviv’s Court of Appeal – in view of the inability to exercise their health authority; Gordijenka Anatolia Grigorovitch, Judge of Ordjonikidev City Court of Dnipropetrovsk oblast, in connection with the application for resignation; Rogov Tetjana Dmitrovna, Judge of the Drykovsky City Court of the Donetsk Region, in connection with the application for resignation; Vdovenko Valentina Alexiyevna, Nomikolayevsky District Court of Zaporezki Region – in connection with the application for resignation and Schulga Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, judge of the Lipovodoline District Court of the Sumsk Region, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u101	Thank you. Stratovitch microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u102	Strtovic Volodymir Mikolajovic. Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! For two years, in 2004-2006, as head of the Anti-Corruption Committee, I fought the appointment of Judge Ivanischuk Anatoly Petrovic. Then the Supreme Council wouldn't listen to me. But the legal flow of history has led to the retention of the Ukrainian Security Service of $100,000 in the city of Herson, Johnishtuk, on February 29, this year! And now the Santa court is hearing his criminal case. Therefore, I propose that this candidature be withdrawn from consideration. Since article 43 of the Law on the Status of Judges states that a judge who has committed a crime involving a position of duty receives a general pension. So we're going to save a lot of money for the budget. Because the judge is not going to get 30-35,000 pensions, if he gets fired by the Supreme Council, but if he gets a verdict, and there's no doubt about it, because all of this has been done openly and proved practically today, then we're going to save huge sums of money to give to the poor citizens. Please, most of you, listen to my offer and pay attention to this matter to the Chief Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u103	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u104	I would like to explain on this point that, in accordance with article 62 of the Ukrainian Constitution, there is a presumption of innocence. It's about how to act in this case. There is a criminal case against Johnishuk. Now it's a matter, it's being investigated, and it's not a decision to make. It did not come into force that he was guilty or innocent. The Higher Council of Justice, in accordance with its authority, had to make a decision on retirement, which is that it reached the age of 65 and continues to have a salary as a judge. We now have no opportunity to deny it, but if he is sentenced and sentenced to legal effect, the Higher Qualifications Commission will terminate his resignation. That's the law. We submit and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u105	Yes, please, Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u106	Vladimir Moisik, united opposition, “The Fatherland. ” Mr. Adam Ivanovich and Mr. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the decision and submission of the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of the judge differs among themselves. And in the decree signed by the Head of the Supreme Council, there is no name of Philippchuk, Peter Philipovich, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. But according to the High Council of Justice, Philipchuk is being released in connection with his application for resignation. As far as I know, he filed an application for release in connection with the age of 65. These are different reasons for being released. So the Supreme Council today did not include his question of liberation, did exactly what was right, and can only address him after October 13 of this year. Notice, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u107	I know today, until October 2nd, and he's 65 years old, so we can't send him out sooner than after the 13th. Let's look at this question on the 16th, it's not a problem. So let's figure out what Johnishuk is. Please, Stretovich again, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u108	Adam Ivanovich, we legislators should be a reference to the application of the law. This Act on the Status of Judges contains article 15, which speaks of the suspension of the powers of the judge not in relation to the achievement of retirement age, but paragraph 6 says, "Increasing legal power over him." So I suggest you postpone it, let the trial move, it's no big deal. And then there'll be real reasons when he decides one way or another, if this new Parliament or two months from now is over and they're going to make the same decision. It's just that I'm proposing today that Ivanitchuk's candidacy not to look, not to rush, because then the High Council of Justice will add work, she'll decide this question again, go back to him essentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u109	Thank you. Now we're going to define with this candidate. And I'm going to read you a statement from the Court of Appeal of the Hmélník Region of Nikolay Bronislava Juryovna. "Please defer consideration of my question of resignation to the next plenary meeting in connection with civil affairs on October 2nd and October 4th 2012." What's the position, Volodymyr Mikolayovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u110	I think there's still a chance for the judge to listen to these cases, because these cases could have been and they could have been dealt with for a long time. Therefore, there will be no harm when the judge, his authority, continues. This is due to the achievement of the 65-year-old, the status judge, and let him finish the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u111	Moreover, she will also be 65 years old on October 13. So we're here without a vote, are we, dear colleagues?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u112	Yeah, 2nd and 4th she listens to things, let her listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u113	Let him listen. I mean, we decided on Nicholas. Now, about Ivanischuk. I'm putting a motion to the vote, she must have the basis of Stretovich to remove the name of Ivanitchek Anatoly Petrovich, whose case is in court, from this list. Please vote. [[12:45:12]] For 263 I think we did the right thing. In fact, then there will be a verdict, there will be one decision, there will be no verdict, there will be another decision. something else. So I'm going to put to the vote the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Liberation of Judges, except for the surnames of Ivanischuk and Nikolov. [[Registration number 11279]] Please vote. [[12:45:46]] For 261 Thank you. Decision accepted. Dear colleagues, the question we have considered, let us welcome the judges whom we have chosen today and wish them success in their work. [[Applause]] We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the production of documents and forms of documents of strict accounting or reporting. [[Registration number 11035]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. A faction of the People's Party has been introduced. [[12:46:36]] For 215 Supported. Please, Inna Ivanovna Jemelyanova, First Deputy Minister of Justice. Prepare the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! You have before you the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the production of documents and forms of strict accounting and reporting. Designed to simplify and simplify procedures related to the realization of human and citizen rights, freedoms, and duties, and to increase transparency in the implementation of such procedures. The objective is to achieve 24 legislative amendments to the exclusion clauses that define certain documents and forms of documents as documents of strict accounting. In doing so, before the amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity were effective, which established the need for the Cabinet of Ministers to define an exhaustive list of the documents and forms of documents listed, other government authorities had the necessary powers. I would like to point out that the production of documents or forms of raw accounting is a costly procedure that is also subject to licensing. This affects the cost of the relevant document or document form and, as a result, the cost of services that include the issuance of such documents. And the costs are often unwarranted because they do not guarantee a cohesive protection against unlawful infringements of the rights or property of the final consumer as a result of possible counterfeiting of these documents. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. And of course, the main positive effect of this bill is the reduction in salaries for the provision of administrative services. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u115	Thank you. Deputy Head of the Economic Policy Committee, Mr. George Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered at a meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 4 September this year. And the Committee recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council both as a basis and as a whole, but on one condition. As you know, this table also lists the presidential ballots, the elections of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the local councils. The proposal to delete those paragraphs, delete those ballots and leave them as forms of strict reporting, and then we will have no conflicts, there will be no disputes. If this is accepted, then it should be indicated from the transcript that it is necessary to delete paragraphs 12, 20 and 23 of section I. and to adopt the law at that time on both the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u117	Thank you. Do you understand the situation? That's what we talked about, dear colleagues, with you on the Conciliation Council yesterday. They asked for the Cabinet of Ministers because it was a bill of government, asked the Cabinet of Ministers to make their proposals. We received such proposals at the signature of Vice-Prime Minister, Minister of Social Policy Tihypka yesterday, that at the time of submission 11036, except for the de-election clauses for the status of documents of strict reporting. Please sign up for the discussion. Please, Grivkowski. Don't insist. Karpuk - Catherinechuku
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u118	Please give it to Catherinechuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u119	Katerinczuk, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u120	Mikola Catherinechuk, European Party of Ukraine, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". As for the content of this bill, it's not bad in principle, and I support the proposal of the committee that this novel should be taken away from being a form of strict reporting. Therefore, this affects, first of all, the control of printing, which affects the authorization of members of the electoral boards who are personally criminally responsible for the status of these documents. And most of all, it's using these documents, saving them for five years. So it seems to me that if the Supreme Council clears the items that were listed in the committee's decision, this bill can be supported in the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u121	Please, you're a pain in the ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u122	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u123	Susu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u124	Thank you. Deputy Sass, "BUT is the Fatherland." Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, like everything the government has been doing lately, most of them are suddenly, suddenly, illegally. Today, in the first reading, the law of slander was annulled unlawfully, against the procedure. In this case, it's about electoral ballots offered by the government that wanted to refer to documents that were not strictly reported, and that would open the way for falsification of the electoral campaign. Surely we have been moved, thank God, to take such an initiative. But let us put an end to the turmoil in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u125	Sergey Volodymyrovich, I don't see any disorder. On the contrary, the Supreme Council is working in harmony that we have agreed that really all the unanimity have been on the Conciliation Council yesterday that these positions will be removed. Don't shout. So it's not the Supreme Council that's bringing or not deputizing. So it's not an address. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the proposal. Please, Ephraim, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I would still like clarity to be in everyone, including those who listen to us or watch us. We agreed with you that we would not enter into the Electoral Law. And the faction of the Party of the Regions is constantly remembering this, and all the issues that are covered by the legislation that we have agreed will be met. That's why we said here yesterday, we don't need to overemphasize what some people are saying, pretending to be a fighter here for what we don't know. We confirmed yesterday that we will also insist that the ballot forms in all the elections there at three points be deleted from the order, then we will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u127	Yes, once again, I would like to point out that yesterday on the Conciliation Council, it was the unanimous opinion of all factions that really should be removed from this bill. I therefore propose to vote that the Act should be adopted to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the production of documents and forms of documents of strict accounting and reporting, excluding from the text of the bill paragraphs 12, 20 and 23 of Chapters I, where the Law on Elections is concerned. Please vote. [[12:54:56]] For 234 The law is passed. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. [[on changing the terms of the competition]] [[Registration number 11100]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[12:55:26]] For 224 Supported. Report to Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko, please. Prepare the Mountain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. The need for the adoption of a draft law is caused by the need to improve legislation in the area of public procurement in support of a domestic producer, including the creation of jobs in the territory of our state. At the same time, the inclusion in the competitive terms of public procurement of conditions for the participation of participants in such purchases of their own production capacity or service in the territory of our State. The draft Act proposes to include in the list of the qualification criteria set out in Part Two of Article 16 of the Public Procurement Act the conditions for participants to purchase public funds for their own production capacity and service centres in Ukraine. [[or]] In doing so, I will predict that this rule will be in effect by 31.12.15 C.E. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u129	Thank you. From the committee. I can't see the mountain. Please, deputy head of Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the bill consists of only one proposal, in fact. What is it? At present, the State Procurement Act has an additional qualification requirement, a criterion for State purchasers, that the contracting authority should have equipment and a logistical basis to enable it to comply with the contract. But the word “have” does not mean that it should be owned or leased, and in this case the Cabinet of Ministers proposes to strengthen this requirement and to oblige the bidders to have equipment, a logistic base to enable them to fulfil the duties that they will assume in the course of winning this tender. He's very simple and clear. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt it as a basis for the bill. Regrettably, the expert office suggests that he be sent for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u131	Yeah. Other than Hanouchka, others insist? Yes, the faction gives Hanushta a word or I see. Well, write it down, then. Please, Toothpick. Don't insist. It's a knock-off.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u132	Please pass the word to Yuri Hanushtak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u133	They came up with what they were supposed to be about.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u134	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen! Hanustak Yuri, "BUT is the Fatherland." In general, the fact that we're finally starting to engage in tender legislation is a positive effect, but I'm wondering, why isn't my law under number 9799 on qualification requirements also being considered in this case? And it's much stronger than the one that's proposed. Why? Because this bill is meant to avoid such cases as High Boyka. So my bill proposed, in particular, that the statutory fund, or the average turnover of the participant over the last three years, should be at least 150 per cent of the bidder's offer price, and that there should be documented experience in the last two years of the equivalent contract of work, production or delivery of goods and services in the range indicated in the tender documentation, but not less than 80 per cent of the amount of work, goods and services recorded in the tender documentation. So what we're giving right now is literally a gap. Why? Because what do you mean, "base leanness"? Well, there's a hole in it, and there's a huge amount of it. So the existence, let's say, of a simple car in the core funds allows you to win a tender to supply huge volumes of transportation. And then she's back in business with a butterfly company, and then she's actually re-engaging a deal with a serious contractor. And what we've got is that the formal requirements have been met, and informally, really, there's been corruption, and there's actually been a rejection. Because we know very well how this is done: the company is registered, the month exists.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u135	Your bill was unfortunately not included in the agenda of the day session, so it cannot be considered. I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. [[on changing the terms of the competition]] [[Registration number 11100]] Please vote. [[13:01:39]] For 238. Copy that. Dear colleagues, in view of the fact that there is, in fact, one sentence, let us give the commission of a profile committee to shorten the procedure for preparing for the second reading. Please vote. [[13:02:07]] For 243 A decision has been made. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the production of documents and forms of documents of strict accounting or reporting. [[Registration number 11036]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:02:38]] For-200 Supported. Inna Ivanovna Jemelyanova, the first deputy minister of justice, reports the report. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u136	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Like the recently supported Bill 11035, the bill refers to exclusion, but it is already from the Tax Code. This is particularly true of excise duties stamps, trade patent forms, and also of the sole tax payer’s testimony form. Asking him to support this bill, because it will significantly cost, as I said, the provision of administrative services, as well as a substantial cost to the production of forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u137	Thank you. Vitaly Yuriovich Homettinick, head of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! This bill is linked to the previous draft, which has just been voted on, on forms of strict reporting. This is to rule out four non - Biblical provisions in the Tax Code. Which, more specifically, will not be a form of strict reporting. It's a business patent, it's about forms that are called. Sorry about giving a testimony to an entity that works on a single tax, as well as the excise tax stamp, and so forth. The committee considered these bills. We think it would be wise to take a closer look at the need to exclude these documents, which actually confirm that taxes are available, from the list of documents that are subject to strict reporting. So we propose to adopt this law on a basis, to carry out another analysis over the week, some work and a reduced procedure for the next week to adopt this law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u139	Yes, please sign in. The tooth does not insist. Grivkovsky does not insist. Nobody insists? One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u140	Jury's shame, Fatherland. Ladies and gentlemen! Well, we could be supportive, but I'm looking at the excise stamps no longer assigned to the strict reporting forms. Do you remember how we voted here for criminal responsibility for counterfeiting excise stamps? And I'm asking myself, "How are these issues going to be dealt with by the investigating authorities?" So for stamps that aren't documents, there's got to be a criminal responsibility there for five years, putting a person in jail for what someone faked, and there wasn't even an accounting, it comes out. Because only what is a form of strict reporting is, well, some way to account for total rigor and then abuse, they'll be obvious. So I support what the chairman of the committee said, we need to look very carefully at this bill. It's very small. But first, something was obviously put there in vain.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the committee to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the production of documents and forms of documents of strict accounting or reporting. [[Registration number 11036]] [[13:07:16]] For 215 I'm betting on the vote to go back to the vote. Please vote. [[13:07:41]] For 228 We're back. I bet the committee's proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the production of documents and forms of documents of strict accounting or reporting, please vote. [[Registration number 11036]] We've already voted 11035. [[13:08:12]] For 216 We are considering a draft Act amending section XXI, paragraph 4, of the Customs Code of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the exemption from import duties of goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as part of the implementation of projects on the basis of international technical assistance provided in accordance with valid international agreements, the initiative of the countries of the Great Eight "Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction" is to be considered in a simplified procedure. [[application]] [[Registration number 11187]] Please be supportive. [[13:09:08]] For 222 Supported. Reports Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade Vladimir Petrovich Pavlenko. Get ready, Homutinik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The aim of the proposed bill is to resolve the issue of exemption from taxation of international technical assistance imported into the customs territory of Ukraine with a view to improving the conditions for dealing with ionizing radiation and improving radiation security from the Great Eight States initiative of the Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction. By joining the initiative in 2003, Ukraine agreed that all governments should take the necessary steps to ensure that the support provided was considered free of charge and free of taxes, duties, congregations, and other payments. The adoption of the draft law will provide technical assistance to improve the conditions for dealing with overworked radioactive sources of ionising radiation and high-activity wastes, such as assistance from the Governments of the French Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to build a centralized repository for the long-term storage of long-term sources of radiation and the purchase of mobile hot cells for removal and transport of sources. In addition, there are 12 new project proposals from our nation on the initiative's donor states. Therefore, the adoption of the bill will not affect the coming into the state budget of Ukraine, since if the issue of tax evasion is not settled, such assistance will not be available. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u143	Welcome home from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u144	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The committee considered a bill submitted by the Government to amend the Customs Code to organise international agreements on a global partnership against the proliferation of weapons and materials of mass destruction. The adoption of the draft law will help to address the issue of taxation related to technical cooperation with certain countries of the Great Eight, including France, and to initiate new projects of international technical assistance as part of the global partnership against the proliferation of weapons and materials of mass destruction. In general, while supporting the initiative and taking into account the report, the committee recommends that the project be adopted on the basis of our committee’s mandate to work on it, taking into account the proposals made by the legislators under the reduced procedure and to submit a second reading to the next plenary week. The point is that we need to avoid certain legislative colleges and agree with the text of Bill 11005, which is also being considered and adopted in general today, is a change to the Tax Code. The committee therefore recommends that only the project be based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u145	Shall we vote? Then we vote on the committee's proposal to take it as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] To accept bill 11187, please vote. Go to the faction, then we'll discuss it. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a reduced procedure, not a fraction of it. [[13:13:21]] For 233 And there was a proposal to vote in favour of an accelerated procedure for preparing for second reading with a view to considering it next plenary week. Please support this proposal. [[13:13:46]] For 237 Decision taken. We are considering the draft Law on Amendments to Section X, paragraphs 14 and 15, of the Ukrainian Land Code on the term for sale of land. [[Registration numbers 11106, 11106-1]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:14:24]] For 228 Offer supported. Bill number 11106 will report to Vladimir Yavorowski, please. Get ready, Gordy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u146	Dear Ukrainians, our constituents! Two weeks ago, Ukraine had great potential and resources: this is our Ukrainian land and gas pipe. After an aural vote under the cover of the Ukrainian Dwarves, a bill on the land bank and the delimitation of land was passed where the right to sell land was installed. So the last wealth we had and remained popular is now being thrown into the market. Who today can buy land from peasants? That woman, that chain that was laying on the barrels, shivering, or the man who had been on the tractor his whole life? He's not going to buy it. He's got all the money from the village today. Neither will a man who lives in the city, for he has no money to go and buy this land. It's perfectly clear that our oligarchs are going to buy it. Ahemtov one can buy half-Ukraine today, with his wealth that he just has, I'm not talking about the firtash, I'm not talking about the collomian and many others. But what we were trying to contain was actually ruined. I passed a bill three times to impose a moratorium. We are not ready for the land market today, we are not ready to sell the land. Nothing's been done completely. It's too much of a risk. But they are in such a hurry, in such a hurry, so that the earth will be torn apart. My bill is very easy to install, and it's just a draft by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. And he and I propose to continue the moratorium until 2014. But my bill is different because it has another postulate, and I'm going to read it. Until the entry into force of the Ukrainian Land Market Act and full land inventory by 1 January 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u147	Finish up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u148	The adoption of this law would give us a lift and save this situation. But I have faith that you will vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u149	Please. The bill Simonenka, Gordienka, Prestenka is Sergey Volodymyrovich Gordijenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u150	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Discussions that the agricultural land market would not be allowed since January 1, 2013, have led to active preparations for the sale of our home land. Many questions arise, and these questions are related to the fact that we do not have an inventory of agricultural land. We didn't get rid of those people who didn't have any rations. We haven't solved the issue of unspent pies, we haven't solved the issue of land assessment and many, many other bills that should regulate these relations. Therefore, the issue of the sale of agricultural land has gained enormous political significance. At the same time, it remains unregulated. A great deal of attention to our land abroad because they want to get it and the huge interest of our inner walls because they know that there's nothing left to sell in our Ukraine, except the most valuable is land, and they want to get for these resellings from thousands and more of the profits. Therefore, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine has drafted this bill and proposes to postpone the deadlines for the introduction of the Act, and in the meantime to develop an effective mechanism to control the sale of land that will prevent possible abuses and criminal acts that are still there. Our bill envisages an extension of the ban on the land share of pies to statutory funds and farm societies by 1 January 2014 and proposes to establish that the purchase and sale of land is part of a public and municipal agricultural assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u151	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u152	The property is introduced as of 1 January 2014, subject to the entry into force of the Land Market Act, defining the characteristics of the circulation of state and municipal property. I ask the faction to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u153	Thank you. From the committee is Black Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u154	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You will have before you a bill amending sections 14 and 15 of Section X of the Land Code on the term for sale of land, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Yavorowski and submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Simonenko, Gordijenko and Perestenko. [[Registration number 11106]] [[Registration number 11106-1]] The bill proposes to continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land and the introduction of land-based pies to the statutory capitals of agricultural societies from 1 January 2013 to 1 January 2014. These bills were unfortunately not considered on the committee, because at the time of the last committee meeting, there were no conclusions from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. However, since these bills provide an opportunity to implement measures related to the organization and legal provision of land circulation in Ukraine and to protect the property interests of farmers. Lands, logically given bills to be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u155	Yes, please sign up for the performance. Bobilov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u156	Bobilov, the Reforms for the Future faction. I'm asking you to pass it on to Zadir's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u157	Please, it's Kick-Ass.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u158	Thank you. The MP's "For the Future" group will support both bills in order for them to get the required number of votes in the room that is needed today in order to be a moratorium on the sale of land. It is clear to all today that preparations are actually under way for the privatization of the Ukrainian Blacklands. And that's what I'm gonna do. The land of farming should remain with humans. In our view, this land must only be redeemed by the State so that this land can return to its state property. We think it makes sense to look at it from the other side. It seems to me that the moratorium should be increased not until 2014, but by 2020, because we all understand not after a year, not after a year and a half, not after two Ukraines will not be ready to privatize the land. And the next question. In fact, today we realize what is happening is a very and very embarrassing fact when it comes to land rations. Today, the State is creating land banks. It seems to me that I need land leases only to go through state land banks, and the bills go only with living money. Because they give people sex and they say it's grain. And the state has to control this process so that 100 percent of the land rations will be leased. What's more, it's going to be like all over the world that the rent is going to be 7-10 percent of the land value. It's already been held, and everyone knows it. So for renting each hectare, the price would be no less than 1,400 to 1,500 dollars per hectare. I feel that this must be done to this composition of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u159	Karpuk, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u160	Vladimir Karpuk. I support the Yavorowski bill and please give the word to Sergei Volodymyrovich Sasa.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u161	Please, Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u162	Thank you. National Deputy Sass, Fatherland. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! In fact, our people are terrified that the authorities will call it reform. All that it calls "reform" is facing great problems for Ukrainian citizens, whether pension reform, tax reform, health reform, education. At the moment, the most important reform in time is land. We don't sometimes hear each other, but I want to give you the expression of one 19th-century American philosopher Henry Georges, who said if you take from a man or a people property, money, cattle, your robbery will end with you taking away. But if you take away a man or a nation’s land, your plunder will continue forever, from every generation and every day. So, dear friends, I'd like us to think about the fact that only 11 percent of the land is suitable for agricultural production. Already in the world, 10 million people die of hunger each year, according to the World Health Organization. For 2050, one in three will starve. So the only thing we have left in Ukraine, the only asset that hasn't been stolen yet, is land. Therefore, it must not be allowed to become a commodity and then be stolen from the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u163	Tushenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u164	I'd like to give my colleague Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, we are absolutely convinced that, in fact, on the last day of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are things that the authorities need to determine for themselves today. Because, in fact, the only value left, as the classic said, is the land. Roz., as it were, space to expand to allow for the sale of land. You know, no one has changed the President's message of date, which is clearly written, the country in Ukraine will be sold since 1 January 2013. You remember, it was the idea to do so on January 1, 2012. And under the influence of both the public and the opposition has managed to postpone for a year, but if today the parliamentary majority does not vote in favour of Vladimir Yavorowski's bill on the moratorium of continuation for one year, it means that it will actually happen. I have a question: Why are billionaires and millionaires going to the polls in the countryside today? Of course, they want to buy the MP's touch. Even more so, they want to prepare themselves for land reform and land purchase. I read an interview with one of the deputies, the current MP from the Volodimir Zubik Party of Regions, who is cruising in the Cherkas region. He says, "We have dark peasants living in shacks, roads are broken. Therefore, the only salvation is that they sell their land. I have many friends, foreign investors who are willing to buy. And if they sell their land, there will be no huts, no houses. They're going to give money, they're going to build roads, and we're going to live in happy capitalism." I am absolutely convinced that, today, the authorities have delegated this land mafia to major districts, promising that where they will go is their land. Friends, if the earth is to be passed on to foreigners, why us? And who are we on this earth?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u166	Fedun. Don't insist. Please, Gordien, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u167	Sergey Gordienko, faction of the Ukrainian Company. I'd like to point out, and we're all unanimous in the fact that Ukrainian land today is at the centre of international capital, it's at the centre of attention because the world is facing the greatest challenges -- the food security of the planet and it's the energy security of the planet. Population is constantly growing, the quality of life and nutrition, the need for biofuels, soil erosion, and international capital are now pushing our native Ukrainian land to sell. Before we speak, we say this: There is much talk going on today, that there is already a shadow market for the earth. Who introduced him? She's in power, she's in the center. If she knows about it, she has to stop this circulation. Today, all those who spoke in the hall became Communists. If you're communists, support our proposals for a moratorium on land sales, we'll support all the laws that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Sorry, the faction was written down, but I didn't make it, so I can't give it to you. Dear colleagues, all in one voice shouting about what's coming. I'm the only one I'd like to talk to if the villagers can hear us, with a simple response: only what's being bought is what's being sold. I mean, if they have the opportunity and the desire to buy, don't sell, don't sell, and don't sell again. Because you'll sell more than land, you'll sell your future. I'm voting on the proposal: to adopt a draft law amending section X, paragraphs 14.15, of the Land Code on land sales. [[Registration number 11106]] The author of the bill is Yavorowski. Please vote. [[13:30:17]] For 111 The factions, please. Region Party 11, BUT 33, Our Ukraine 10, Communist 25, People's Party 9, Reforms. - 19, non-fractional -4. I am voting on the proposal to adopt in the first reading the draft Act amending sections 14 and 15 of Chapter X of the Code of Land. [[on the time limit for sale of land]] [[Registration number 11106-1]] The author is Simonenko. Please vote. [[13:31:04]] For 1052 The factions, please. Region Party 4, BUT 31, Our Ukraine 10, Communist 25, People's Party 9, Reforms. - 19, non-fractional -4. That's too bad. We are considering a draft Act amending certain legislative acts. [[on the protection of children's rights to safe information]] [[Bill 8711 registration number]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:31:46]] For 212 [[B in m in s a l in]] So we're already looking at 212. You'll be performing, then you'll say. He'll report. Here are six authors. The first is King’s. Please, Kzarykov. From the committee to prepare the Stac. Bondarenko. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u169	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This bill, signed by representatives of all factions in Parliament, provides for the protection of the information space of children. The law is actually very simple. He simply adds the notion of “homosexuality” to the list of things that cannot be shown on television, printed in newspapers and corrupted our traditional values. The question of what propaganda is can be answered as follows: it is the fixing and setting of these values of our culture, our mentality to replace the basic values that our family has, to those that are imposed from abroad. You know, recently Obama stated that the protection of the rights of sexual minorities is a priority of U.S. foreign policy. And unfortunately, the liberals in some echelons also insist on changing credits from the West, as well as a simplified visa regime, that, in large measure, our young generation will be completely depraved, that is, introducing certain courses into school textbooks, which is the introduction of juvenile justice, which will make it possible to legalize the selection of children from normal families to families of homosexuals and pedophiles, and many others. The bill was also supported by a professional committee, as well as by the Council of Churches of Ukraine. I believe that this law should clearly be adopted because there is no relation to human rights violations, some of the ones that impose grants on us from abroad, i.e. it is only the protection of the information space for children. Please consider our families, our basic principles, and the morality that has characterized our people for many centuries and decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u170	Yes, Bondarenko Helen of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u171	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information at its meeting on 16 May 2012 reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts. The bill is aimed at strengthening the resistance to promoting homosexuality in Ukraine and ensuring the legal principles of accountability for violations of legislation in the area of public order and the morality of Ukrainian society. The committee notes that the bill is flawed. In particular, to keep a clear line between a product that has some hints of homosexuality, but which does not aim at promoting exactly that kind of relationship, and the production of just sexual character is quite difficult. In addition, the draft law contains editorial errors and shortcomings. The precise title of the bill - protecting children's rights to safe information space - does not fit its contents. This is not about the rights of children but about the prohibition of the promotion of homosexuality and the responsibility for its violation. That is why the committee proposes that when it adopts the bill in the first reading as a basis, it be processed in preparation for the second reading. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus believes that, as a result of the first reading, it is appropriate to reject the bill. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality proposes that the bill be rejected. The Committee on Law Enforcement generally supports the legislative initiative. The Committees on Budget, Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council did not comment on the bill. Dear National Deputies! Please support the committee's decision to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u172	Thank you. Please sign up. Yes, please, Chechetov. School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, the bill is very serious. But the thing is, there were discussions, as I was told, here and in the towers. And very serious people from our well-respected opposition colleagues asked them not to rush, to allow them to make further changes to the law and then to adopt it. Therefore, when we meet the wishes of our opposition colleagues, the serious people of the opposition, we propose that we vote in the first reading. So that people can make amends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u174	Andrew Schlell. Unguran, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u175	Please give Paul Ungurian a message.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u176	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, today we are really considering a very important law. It's a law to protect children from the propaganda of homosexuality. Because, unfortunately, today you have the impression that if you turn on television or on the Internet, our children are being prepared to become virtually sexual perverts. That can't be allowed. That's why today, I think the whole Parliament is the only thing in the first reading to vote for this law and protect our children, our young people from these shameful manifestations. I think all the factions of Parliament here will be the only ones. It is important that there be no propaganda when a person becomes an adult, he is able to choose his own course, but children who are not yet able to make wise, wise decisions today are often influenced by the propaganda of this totally wrong way of life. And today it is very important for us to hear the voice and the churches and the organizations of family, parental committees. There are 100,000 signatures, 100,000 signatures for today's MPs to approve this decision. It's very, very important. Therefore, a great request is made to all factions to unite and vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter is closed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office has made a negative decision and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, voting is subject to the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to protect children's rights to safe information space. [[Registration number 8711]] Please vote. Please vote. [[13:39:42]] For 104 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, don't shout. Regional Party 25, "BUT – Fatherland" – 3, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 11, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-factional – 3. There's an offer for one more time, right? Please, Unguran, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I don't think a lot of colleagues have been identified, and now we need to identify ourselves. Still, we need this law very much. And so the request, nevertheless, that we make a positive decision today. In case we can't now approve the decision to return to the vote so that we can send it back to the first reading. But still, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please ask this question for a return to consideration. If we see what the signal is, 226, we vote it. If not, let's do it again. Thank you very much. And requests, large factions, still support.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, given this urgent demand and motivation that not everyone has understood what this is about, I am voting for a motion to return to the draft amendment bill to some of the legislation on the protection of children's rights to safe information. [[8711]] Please vote. [[13:41:27]] For 283 We returned, that is, we made a positive decision. I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to protect children's rights to safe information. Please vote. [[13:41:59]] For 289 Decision taken. Thank you. There is a proposal to have the committee prepare the bill for second reading by a reduced procedure on October 16th of this year. Please vote in favour of this proposal. [[13:42:32]] For 104 The decision is not taken. I would ask the committee then to prepare it for consideration in due course, so that the Supreme Council would not then take a final decision in October, but in November. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Professional Qualifications Act is under review. [[Registration number 9625]] The proposal from the committee to consider the issue in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:43:12]] For 223 Decision taken. At the same time, dear colleagues, I inform you of an extension of the morning session to 14 hours. The reporter is Jaroslav Suhi. The reporter is Svetlana Schmelov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Professional Qualifications Act. The sponsors of this bill are Oleg Shevchuk and Vitaly Kurilo. Nearly five years have passed since the issue of the need to build a new system of qualifications was first raised in Ukraine. And I want to remind you, right here, in this session room, during parliamentary hearings, there were repeated comments made to employers about the quality of the workforce. One of the ways to ensure the country's competitiveness is to effectively shape, reproduce and use labour potential. Today, the country needs a large number of skilled workers, graduates of both higher and vocational education. At the same time, we see a decline in the prestige of the working profession in Ukraine. This fall has a number of reasons. And the first is the old-fashioned preparation program. The second is a relatively low salary, a lack of a clear career trajectory. Today, you should be sure that there was a vacancy fair in Kiev. You can see that young people don't even respond to the salary of 2-3 thousand because life has become much more expensive. The introduction of a quality new system of professional qualifications is extremely relevant. Something is done in Ukraine. 2005 We joined the Bologna Process. On November 22, 2011, the Cabinet of Ministers approved the National Qualifications Program. By decree of the President of Ukraine of 12.03 The National Action Plan was approved in 2012. It is an act issued by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the national qualification framework in accordance with the European Qualifications Framework. We, as a group of authors, believe that the adoption of the Professional Qualifications Bill will significantly accelerate the process of reforming qualifications in Ukraine, help harmonise our labour market and education services, and the corresponding markets in the European Union. Please accept as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u182	Thank you. Svetlana Alexandrovna Schmelova, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u183	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, radio and television! At its meeting on February 8, 2012, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work considered a bill on a system of professional qualifications. [[Registration number 9626]] The drafters propose to introduce a system of professional qualifications aimed at the creation of a single comprehensive, open and flexible system of qualifications that will cover all levels of professional qualifications and medium-sized, professional and technical, higher, after diploma, informal and informal education, as well as lifelong learning. The committee points to the fact that the proposed bill is the most systematic, balanced and correct option compared to the previous one. The projects included approaches applied in foreign countries, as well as some of the work done by domestic experts. In support of the legislative initiative, however, it is important to take into account that in Ukraine there is an appropriate model of education that provides for the acquisition of vocational qualifications by citizens, as well as a national system for the classification of professions. In view of this, the legislative proposals that have been tabled for its amendment and the introduction of legal money need first to determine their relationship with the valid norms in this area and to exclude them from further work on the bill of conflicting clauses. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to reject it. The Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance report that the proposed bill cannot be supported either. The Ministry of Education and Science, Youth and Sports of Ukraine generally supports the bill. Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u184	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u185	and decided to recommend a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, who insists on this? I can't see. If no one insists, then I'm voting on a proposal by the adoption committee based on the draft Professional Qualifications Act. [[Registration number 9625]] Please vote. [[13:48:44]] For 263 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Collective Agreements and Agreements on the Definition of the Parties to Collective Negotiations is under review. [[Registration number 10106]] The proposal, the honourable colleagues, from the committee to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? Please vote. [[13:49:25]] For 227 Copy that. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Georgievovich Hara. Correspondent – Vladimir Stanislavovich Maruschenko from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u187	Respected colleagues, the adoption of the bill is due to the adoption of the Social Dialogue Act in 2010 and the Employers'Organization, Associations and Rights Act in June this year. In accordance with the requirement of the Rules, article 90, part 8, together with those laws, was submitted and the bill was submitted with the aim of amending it in accordance with the laws adopted. The amendments are very simple, but they are incorporated into collective bargaining laws and agreements, the Cabinet of Ministers, trade unions, collective labour disputes, etc. That is what is proposed. Determination of the level of collective bargaining and the parties involved, in particular the legislative framework for the current tripartite model of social dialogue, with the participation of employers and trade unions and the Cabinet of Ministers. Second. Bringing a number of laws into line with unified modern legislation that regulates social labour relations. Definition of the term “employer” and replacement of the term “owner” to “employees”. Clarification of the provision on the establishment and operation of representative bodies of the parties to social dialogue, particularly trade unions and employers. The implementation of the law would eliminate the shortcomings of a number of existing laws in this area of law. Given that a number of laws on this subject have already been adopted since the registration of the bill and today's consideration. We need to make some changes to this bill. The General Committee would like to ask you very much. Given the very important social dimension of the bill aimed at improving social dialogue in the country, it should be considered and adopted on first reading and in general with a single amendment. Well, first of all, delete the situation that already exists in connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u188	Please give me the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u189	This second paragraph of section I, paragraph 2, of the draft, section I, paragraph 1, paragraph 1, of the draft and section I, paragraph 8, should be deleted, since other laws already define this. Second, correct the technical error and set out section I, paragraph 1, as amended. Parts 10, 11 should read: "The parties that made the agreement should inform citizens through the media about changes and additions to the agreement and their implementation, to ensure that the text of the agreement is placed in the media. "Hallusev" and territorial district and republican agreements are subject to notification, registrations by the Ministry of Social Policy, and sorcery and territorial agreements of another level are registered by local executive authorities." [[& Tiles]] That's it. And the law will take action to promote social dialogue in the country. Please support the Committee's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u190	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi will speak from the committee. Please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u191	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee at its meeting unanimously supported the proposal that this bill could be adopted both on the basis and in general, because it frameworkally amends the existing legislative acts that have long been in force and become popular and used. Do you understand? Social and labour relations in our country are regulated long ago on the basis of collective terms, and there can be no other way. That's why I'm still using the committee statement today to draw the attention of all the fellow members of the national MPs: you see, in December 1971, when KZOT was accepted today, there was no such thing as "employee," "employee." There was no such thing as a social dialogue, everything was clear. There was no such thing as unpaid pay or, God forbid, "industry banking." Today, in market transformations, we are dealing with completely new, qualitatively new things, including collective terms. It is based on them and maintains social peace in our society. Therefore, the committee believes that the adoption of this bill will allow for the elimination of the shortcomings of a number of existing laws in this area of law, because life has moved forward and will move forward, will provide the legislative basis for the full realization by the social partners of their rights for collective bargaining and collective bargaining and agreements, will certainly create conditions for improving the status of social dialogue in Ukraine. The committee supports the proposal of co-authors to delete paragraphs that are included in other bills: paragraph 2 of paragraph 2 of section one of the bill; paragraph 3 of one of the bills. And make technical corrections to chapter eight of the first bill. In view of this, the committee proposes to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u192	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for this discussion. Yes, please put the names of the national deputies on the board. Grivkovsky refuses. The tooth of Mikhail Vasilovich refuses. Yuri Hanustak does not refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u193	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen! Without denying the need to settle this question, I want to pay attention to some things. Tripartite agreements are usually very bad. So if we're considering contracts, general agreements, collective agreements between employers and employees or those representing them as trade unions, it makes sense. Question: What does the third party do in the form of the Cabinet of Ministers, local government organizations? If it participates in these negotiations in fact as a guarantor of their observance and which is accompanied by the State, it makes sense. If she's a signatory, it's illogical, it's illogical, it can't be because in this case it's a question of who violated one side or the other. On the side of the Cabinet of Ministers, it is governed exclusively by the law, that is, it, if it can guarantee compliance with the law, is the law enforcement authorities. How is this done abroad? The prefect’s foreign representative, particularly in France, is necessarily present during the negotiations, making the corresponding agreements. And in this case, he's following procedures to comply with the laws that are already in force. But he can't be a signatory in any way, he can't be a party to these contracts. And that's why I'm starting to understand that in the first reading -- that's perfectly logical -- you can accept that, because you really need to settle that question. By the way, there's still stamps. Well, "representative" who represent at the national level would have to be better deciphered. But because.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u194	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u195	..you need it for second reading, and at an accelerated rate you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u196	Thank you. Basil Hara from the faction. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain. There is no contradiction in this bill. At the production level, it is based on a bilateral basis: between employers and workers in the form of trade unions. All other treaties and agreements are on the tripartite side. The General Agreement is signed by the Cabinet of Ministers, Employers and Trade Unions. Regional agreements are signed by trade unions, charities and employers. That is, there is a tripartite social agreement between all public structures, and at the production level two parties, I repeat: there is no Kabmina and no authority, there are employers and employees. Therefore, there is no contradiction and there is a request, I repeat the Committee's request, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u198	Dear colleagues! I heard your warning. If there's a warning, we're him. Well, we won't be able to accept it in general if there's a warning. So let's do it this way. I'm going to put the vote on the ground. If the proposal is supported, the commission of the committee is to prepare it for 16 numbers for final adoption. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, there's a denial. I can't. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I want to tell you. If there is a objection, 42 articles will be rejected, the document will be in writing, not signed. How many times have we faced this problem? Why should we have problems? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Collective Agreements and Agreements Act to define the sides of collective bargaining. [[Registration number 10106]] Please vote. [[13:59:52]] For 262 Decision taken. The proposal to have a profile committee prepare a draft for second reading on a reduced procedure on October 16th is put to the vote. Please vote. [[14:00:18]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the activities of credit history bureaus is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 10292]] The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[14:00:48]] For 224 Decision taken. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Gorbal. The Coroner is the head of the Vitaly Homutinnik Committee. Reporter? I can't see. The committee? Vitaly Hometic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u199	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! Our committee at its meeting on June 6th reviewed the draft Law amending certain legislative acts to improve the activities of credit history bureaus. The bill is designed to amend the laws of Ukraine: "On the organization, formation and circulation of credit stories" and "On the Ukrainian State Tax Service" and on the legislative level to define the function of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine to provide the Bureau of Credit History with information from the State Register of Individuals of Taxpayers. It is also proposed that a state register of credit history be established and that a national commission be empowered to regulate the financial services market in the public domain, thus addressing the issue of the operation of the credit history bureau system. It is also suggested that the status of persons who acquire credit rights be defined as credit history bureau users who provide and have the right to receive credit history information. And it's suggested that we clarify the information in the credit history. The National Bank of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine support the bill. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, it is stated that it can be accepted as a basis. The committee also recommends that the draft law be based on the first reading and that all the disagreements expressed, including in the scientific and expert office, be taken into account when working on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u200	Please sign in. Names of the national MPs, please. Mikola Catherinechuk. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Then Fedun and Hanusztak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u201	Dear National Deputies! The Bureau of Credit History is, as it were, like a lacquer paper that highlights a certain credit activity of a host subject. And whoever has a good credit history doesn't look for financial institutions or banking institutions -- they're looking for him because he's a good borrower. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to remind you, we have four of these credit offices in Ukraine today. As far as the money of this bill is concerned, it's the most important money in Ukraine to create a state credit history register. Which will form, create, run the National Commission for Financial Markets. And yet another innovation of this bill or of an improved existing law is that the bureau’s users are now becoming the owners, who, according to the law, have acquired the right to claim a credit right. Very good, right suggestions are that improve the mechanisms themselves and the very flow of information provided by credit history bureaus. What shortcomings. Science and expertise criticises that this is not a violation of the Constitution on the use, collection and dissemination of information. But I would like to point out that already in the law in force, the main principle of the law in force, is that only on voluntary grounds is such information provided by the subject-holders to the credit office. The disadvantage is that such information is provided not by all subjects who receive credit but only selectively. This indicates that we have limited, lame information. I think all credit commitments, credit rights should be here. And then we're going to have a full picture. I don't think there should be any norm in the law when we say that you get information from other registers, that's article 5. For more information, see article 7. We have to remove such norms from the law. I do not think that we should do so so that the government register is free of charge to all economic operators who are profit earners. We have to support the first one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u202	Yuri Hanustak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u203	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, well, in general, the project is not bad, and it really needs to be settled. There are only a few warnings. It's about sharing information. So we're sharing information with the subject, most likely the one who's lending it, although it wouldn't be confusing to write it down in more detail, and the user. And the question is, the user who wants to take a loan, he's bound, well, essentially obliged to give himself information. Questions. Is this information available through this register to other users? If it doesn't happen, what I believe it should be, in this case it has to be written directly in this law. Why? Because if it is written that an authorized authority accepts the order of the exchange, the matter should not be settled in order in this case. Why? Because this applies to third parties. And that's why it should be regulated directly in the law. And these are things we need to work on for a second reading. Why? Because, in order for there to be, indeed, abuse, when information of a confidential nature becomes known through this register to those who want to abuse it. And so for the second reading, we need to work on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-10-02-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, the matter has been discussed. The committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. So I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on improving the activities of credit history bureaus. [[Registration number 10292]] Please vote. [[14:08:20]] For 260 Decision taken. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Break till 4:00. At 16 o’clock, we will continue our consideration of the issues set out in the October 2nd schedule.
