ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:01:30.]] It was registered in the 406 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a delegation from the Polish Seima Commission on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism, headed by Ireneus Ras, who are present in the Hall, please welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of our colleagues: Vastin Sergey Ivanovich and Chertkova Jury Dmitrovich. Please welcome our colleagues and wish them good health and success! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I provide information on the results of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at plenary meetings on 15 May 2012. 52 questions on the agenda have been considered. As a result of their consideration, 3 laws and 4 decrees were passed, 18 bills were passed on the basis, 1 bill was sent to the Committee to prepare for re-reading, 2 bills were returned to the subject of the law of the legislative initiative, 12 bills were rejected. Honorary colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, spend 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with statements, reports, and suggestions. People's deputies please sign up for the speech. Please put the names of the national deputies on the information board. Maroustenka, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Stretovic, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Matthew will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies, dear Mr. Head, the distinguished audience, our country recently celebrated Victory Day. Ahead of Kiev City Day, 1530 years old in Kiev, Euro - 2012 But I went out to this rostrum not to say it, but to say how presumptuous the historic Kiev is. We see what clouds grow up in the historical parts of plastic and concrete, and they darken the entire historical picture, including even the Park Avenue, the Dniper Coastal. They're already competing with Laura. Today, I was driving to the Moscow skyscraper Square, 30 stories away, and I grew up near the cave raidad department. But what's really scary is that the historical part of Kiev, which remained intact within the streets of Bogdan Hmelnick, Vladimirsky, Shevchenka, and Hristtica, which was not destroyed in 1941, will now be mutilated. I'm showing you that once on the site of the central gastronomy, 41st Street, the skyscraper will grow to 12 floors and 2 floors of the hill. What's strange is the position of the Ministry of Culture, which, at my request, is to stop this aberration with the mouth of the Scientific and Methodological Council for the Protection of National Heritage, the Protection of Cultural Heritage, this extract, says that we need to improve the project, build it, put it into an existing structure. I want to remind them that there is a 1967 Ukrainian RSR Council Regulation that has banned these two quarters that have survived the historic Kiev of the 19th century, any building in this place. Today’s officials, however, today’s one - day shorts, do not think about an inheritance, memory for future generations, sell the area, order the projects, and build them. Surprising is the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. On my request a month ago, on the MP's request, I don't get an answer to that question. I remember, and we know how the public stood up for Andrijavski. In my speech, I want to warn you of similar actions to protect the historical Crusader. In these two quarters, any construction must be banned and our nation's cultural heritage must be protected. There are many examples of many European states where decisions to ban any building to preserve a historical cultural heritage are adopted at a higher level of state. Unfortunately, in Ukraine this rule does not work. So I urge those who are in high offices, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Kyiv City State Administration to stop the use and abuse of historic Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u3	Vladimir Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u4	Please pass the word Behvez to Valerija Annievich, a faction of the Ukrainian Company.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u5	Valerius Ananiyovich Beviz, please, the Communist faction. The next one will be Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u6	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have more modern and more professional professionals in the judiciary, apart from the Christmas Judge. What do I want to say? The fact is that in 2008 the press of Winnitzkin was filled with information that one night the Tulchin District Court was burned. Literally hours later, one of the judges of the court, who claimed that he had been attacked by a gun, approached the district attorney’s office. Imagine when a judge, as a result of a test, shoots himself in his own car, shoots himself in clothes to simulate an attack on himself, then sends text messages to an address with threats, and thus to this day, the very day that he has been convicted, but to this day he is exercising justice on behalf of a country like Ukraine. I, Volodymyr Mihajlovich, made an appropriate request to the High Council of Justice, because as early as 2009, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine sent an appropriate application to the High Council of Justice for the release of such a judge. However, in that same year, in November 2009, the Supreme Council of Justice refused to release the judge. Hence, to this day he is exercising justice. I'd like to ask, Your Honor, to refer to what we have today as judges. And so I hope that on Friday, this Friday in this room will be my parliamentary request, and in the end, the High Council of Justice will make an appropriate decision that will allow for the release of such woeful judges. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u7	Basil Blackney, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Catherine Timothy Vaszczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u9	Catherine Vaschuk, faction of the People's Party. The next one will be Koleschenko. Yeah, yeah, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u10	Catherine Vasuk, faction of the People's Party, Volin. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, I want to draw the attention of the government once again to those problems that require immediate solutions in the countryside, particularly the difficult problem today, such as the development of animal production. Good support for peasants and approval was given to the government’s decision to pay for the maintenance of cattle. Too bad we didn’t listen to our remarks earlier, but we wouldn’t have had such a head drop today. The lower price, the lower price of milk and meat below which the production of this product becomes profitable, unfavourable to peasants and is not produced in Ukraine, and so that processing companies are not allowed to lower the price set below that limit. Unfortunately, our fixation law is not less than 30 percent of the value of raw material in ready - made milk. Meat production was not supported by this hall. So today the government must make operational decisions or we must take such a law with you. The decline in animal production has a number of other reasons that do not require additional allocations or capital investments. The reason for the decline in animal production is not simply the hard work of the industry, the complex working conditions on farms, the low prices we are talking about, but not the last place in this range is the barriers that are set by various kinds of inspections today. For the water use of the permit, a thunderbolt requires 17 documents and is worth 100,000 dollars. That's 500 cents of milk. The peasants have to pay $1.25 a ton for manure. When did this shit get so bad in Ukraine? To throw in the atmosphere. If the farm has 800 heads, the fines for discards amount to 500,000 dollars at those low prices. Dear colleagues! If all the trouble had been from animal production, all the discards in Ukraine had been.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u12	We would eat pure produce, we would have fertile land, and we wouldn't digest chemistry. All these sanctions must be lifted immediately by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Mankovsky, Glazunov is handing over the right to speak to Kolesnick. Six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Today, the Ukrainian State faces a choice when the future of our country and people is determined for many decades. The importance of this choice can only be compared to independence. Then, in 1991, Ukraine gained formal independence, and now, in 2012, it is a matter of preserving the real sovereignty of the Ukrainian people over their State. Between 2004 and 2009, foreign benefactors became such a leader of Ukraine that they lost their last sense of conscience and diplomatic etiquette: they began directly, through the media, to indicate to the Ukrainian prosecutor's office, the Ukrainian police and the court what cases to investigate, and what cases no, to the courts what decisions to make, and to the elected leaders of the people how to behave. A clear example of this is the situation surrounding the Euro-2012 boycott of the so-called Timoshenko case. The anti-Ukrainian hysteria in Germany, Austria, France, and several other Western European countries and international organizations have demonstrated the true face of those who want to be a democracy teacher for Ukraine. Our family is now chosen as another target for addressing the domestic political and economic problems of these countries, and Timoshenko in this technology is only an instrument. Although attempts by another German and French blitzkrieg in Ukraine have failed: Sarkozy has lost the presidency of France, the Merkel Party, a local election, and certain circles in Europe continue to hope to shift the attention of a private European from a terrible state of the economy, to an unemployment rate of over 18 per cent across the EU, or about 25 million unemployed people, to a remote Ukraine where there is a dictatorship. The dictatorship has been claimed by those countries that have unleashed the two world wars, have carried out the horrors of genocide, the vastness of the world, but have recently killed hundreds of thousands of people, have occupied and bombed Yugoslavia, Serbia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, whose territories have been run by secret prisons, where thousands of people have been tortured without trial and investigation, in which up to 40 per cent of the population do not have the minimum civil rights, despite living there for many decades. With regard to the unprecedentedity of the Timoshenko case, Merkel and the company are silent on the trial against the ex-president of France, Jacques Chirac, on the fate of the detainee in Austria, Prime Minister of Croatia, on the criminal case against Andrian Nestase, Prime Minister of Romania, on the criminal case against the ex-Prime Minister of Bulgaria, the ex-Prime Minister of Iceland, on the former head of the International Monetary Fund, the rival of Sarkozy in the presidential elections. And this list can be continued. At the same time, it is very interesting when, at last, the various ambassadors and international auditors, who visit Timoshenko on schedule, will begin to visit another convicted leader of the Ukrainian opposition and the former Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Lazarenko, the boss and the dealer of Mrs. Timoshenko. For many years now, Lazarenko has been drowning in U.S. sunsets. Where are the pickets, where are the posters, gentlemen? Or for the United States, Russia, France, Germany, some rules, and for Ukraine, others. The Ukrainian State simply wanted to solve its problems by ploughing on the subject of Ukraine, some Ukrainian policies were trying to address the decline of their internal ratings. The double, or triple, standards, logic and rhetoric of the cold war are widely used. Certainly not the last part in the attempt to pressure Ukraine has been played by the opposition, so-called opposition, which has already been in power several times, but has never learned to respect its people and their States. Instead of working for the benefit of the country, offering real alternative decisions taken by the authorities, the Ukrainian opposition demonstrated its traitorous nature, almost moving to the west, eating all the ears of foreign politicians in complaints of their political injuries. They did not escape from their mental inadequacy; they called upon the polygamy, the tattar, and the Germans, and the Poles, and after them let there remain even a wild field, the chief authority. The theme of the collaborators and traitors of their country and of their people, who, on enemy behalf of their countries and their peoples, are not new to Europe and not new to Ukraine. But the fate of these colombians and traitors has always been sad, and the people have cursed them. And I can say that Ukraine has made its main and obvious choice, Ukraine has elected its country president Viktor Yanukovic, who has proposed social initiatives that are supported by the people of Ukraine. And it is clear to us today that Ukraine is the object of foreign interests, because we still have huge natural resources. We have a huge potential for human resources. We have huge extraterrestrial fields and huge resources. That's what the fight is all about. Therefore, I would recommend that the so-called opposition consider why they are used to destroy their own State. The people of Ukraine have clearly and clearly defined their future. We will be in an independent Ukraine, in a sovereign, where President Viktor Yanukovic will be and where there will be no traitors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u15	Vasutin, faction of the Party of Regions, please. He's refusing? Then Volintz, the Communist faction. Catherine Samuel, please. Alexander Stoyan will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, we made a decision with you yesterday regarding Ascani-New. The uniqueness of Ascani-Nova is that there is a scientific institute in southern Ukraine, a biosphere reserve and agricultural research. But now Askania-Nova is on the verge of destruction. The state lands are devoted to the chiefs, which are 4,000 acres [4.5 thousand ha]. Animalry has been destroyed. The Production Society, Kolyhayev heads it, has given the job to as many as 75 men. And for a few more years, more than 10,000 people lived and worked in Ascani-Novi. Now there's only 5,000 left. There's no money in the local budgets, no money. He was assigned to a government firm. They rent land for tens of years. And what's more, this same state-owned company is given credits, so think about it, under 96 percent of the year-olds. Where did we see that? This is all done in order for the State to eventually move to the hands of these majors. And that's why. And even two acres [2 ha] of land, people refused to grow their vegetables to realize, to grow, to realize, and somehow to survive. And this land in Ukraine is 220 hectares -- it's Herson, it's Crimea, it's Kharkiv, it's everywhere they belong in the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. I appeal to the Attorney General's Office, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to verify these facts and to determine at the end of the day what position is the Deputy Minister of Angola? He's the president of the Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Please tell me, how can a civil servant engage in such important activities in our country? My second point is, I don't understand why the power structures are covering this civil servant. The earth’s issue today is becoming very relevant. I realize that everyone is getting ready by January 1, 2013, to rob everything, but it's state land. And such a state man, to whom the Coal appears, will not protect state land, she has placed her mahogany relatives in order to take them into her own hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u17	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Corge will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u18	Dear voters, I was asked to speak by a war veteran, a veteran of Litwinenko Tamara Ivanovna, who lives in the city of Kirovograd. She called her son, my neighbor, and said, "I want to talk to Stoyan." And when I contacted her, she said, "Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, please thank you on my behalf, on behalf of the warlords of the President of Ukraine, most of you in Parliament for having received an extra 160 dollars on the eve of Victory Day. And Tamara Ivanovna Litwinenko said that in two years her pension increased from 800 to 160. She gave her congratulations and greetings to her colleagues. And now imagine, dear fellows, if we, the majority of the people in this room, hadn't voted in April for budget changes, because the opposition didn't vote, we couldn't raise Tamara's pension a lot, we wouldn't be able to review the pensions of 13 million 900,000 pensioners who were reviewed, modernized them, and accounted for 2,000 dollars. And it's strange to hear a new leader coming out of the opposition, saying, "From when we get to power, we'll solve social issues." So why didn't you, as a reputable opposition, start with a small one, and for people it's big -- you didn't start by voting for the President of Ukraine's initiative? Why don't you, Your Honor, two years in power, and I want to say again, don't you give people a total of 57 pennies in retirement? You criticized us for our president's promise of a thousand dollars in retirement. It's already a thousand, it's a bracelet. Now, add: in July, the minimum pension will be reviewed again, and in October, the minimum pension will be reviewed. And the third time in December. Thus, our political power has consistently fulfilled its obligations. That's why Tamara Ivanovna said to me, "Proceed to the majority, we'll vote for them, and we'll vote for them. Because we see that they really care about people." In addition, respected colleagues, miners received an additional 371 bracelets. And I'll add, my dear colleagues, for the first time, I would like to stress that the first payment for disabled internationalist soldiers has been raised to the level of the participants in the war. So you can see that our political power for two years has been pulling the state out of the pit that you've thrown into, your authority. And now, step by step, he is fulfilling his obligations. By 2015, we will do everything that the President and our political power have promised. All we need is stability and the support of the people of our power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u19	Vitaly Corge, faction of the Party of the Regions. Korgee, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please. Klimov will be next. Prepare Klimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u20	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I want to draw your attention to the medical subject. The issue of the safe use and sale of medical supplies has been discussed repeatedly in this room and is under the control of the authorities. But I want to point out that according to existing media messages and available materials, there has been a recent abuse of unreceptive drugs containing codeine, especially young people. Kodterp, Corfex, Codeterpin. Noted drugs, especially Codeterpin, which contain a number of narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances and precursors, are not classified as non-prescription drugs. The Coderpin is among the sales leaders in Ukraine, exceeding the real needs by tens and hundreds of times. Experts estimate that this year it will be sold for 400 million dollars. At the same time, the peak of sales takes place in the summer and in the resort regions of our country. Special attention is due to the issue of the supply and release into illicit circulation in the territory of the State of the precursor drug Terofun, which has an active substance of pseudoephedrine, or ecstasy, and can be used to synthesize amphetamines and is used for high demand in drug addicts. According to experts, this could lead to the death of between 50,000 and 70,000 of our fellow citizens. According to available information, between 2009 and 2011, 5 million Terofun packages were distributed in Ukraine totalling $20 million. In order to hide the mechanisms of its distribution, the redesigned registration documents from Therofoon to Rinolex. I pay attention to the Ministry of Health and Law Enforcement, which, only in February of this year, Nova Rouss, imported over 600,000 packages of the $5.5 million product into Ukraine. And it's been implemented in a number of days. It's a similar situation with Cafex and Nalbufin, whose sales volume is amazing. Moreover, on the Internet there are recommendations on free access, such as how to make drugs, I emphasize, in the home environment. The 2012 drug hit can be Butterrat, which is also sold without a prescription. This drug is a drug, and it is extremely dangerous, rapidly causing addiction, inadequacy, paranoia, and lethal effects. He is especially affected by youths in Luhansk and Donetsk. In view of the negative trends among the growing generation, I think it is necessary to ask the Ministry of Health to consider including these drugs in prescriptions or list number 1 approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I believe that such a situation is unacceptable and dangerous for Ukrainian citizens, threatens the national interests of the State and requires prompt action by the government, the law enforcement authorities, and perhaps the ORP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u21	The People's Derevolvement is transferring the right to speak to Olena Bondarenko, please. Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u22	Olena Bondarenko, Timoshenko Street, Fatherland. Yesterday, U.S. Attorney’s Court made an unlawful cynical attempt to deprive the illegally convicted Yulia Timoshenko of the right to appeal to the European Court of Human Rights. At the same time, the Penitentiary Service severely violated the European Convention on Human Rights by publishing personal information on the condition and treatment of Yulia Timoshenko. And at the same time, in almost every way, amazing new intensities have emerged in the borders of the vast majority of the international community. Proud allegations of seeming mentoring, ultimatums, even a campaign of pressure and humiliation of Ukraine and interference in internal affairs. It's very simple. The thief had a hat on fire. In fact, it is the power that degrades Ukraine, tops its dignity, destroys its authority, shames the world, plunges into a chasm of lawlessness and injustice, the very power, donate it, spits at the duties assumed by the State of Ukraine during its accession to the Council of Europe, including the January resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The lords are overpowered by the Bolsheviks, or demeanor, that they are beating the prisoner leader of the opposition — the defenseless woman. Is it not demeaning that 97 percent of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights have not been executed in Ukraine, is it not demeaning that 98 percent of the sentences of the Ukrainian courts are incriminating, or is it not a humiliation that today’s rulers are squeezing the scroll from Afghans, blacks, pensioners, budgeters, invalids? The very power of the short term has destroyed all the positive things that have moved the international community to look toward Ukraine with hope and respect. It was the society’s power to plant a terrible quasilogy, not that of the criminal who committed the crime, but that of the one who dared to resent and protest against the crime. The world as a whole, leaders of leading nations demand that criminal legislation be brought into line immediately, allowing criminal persecution for political decisions today, solves the power of the hand for repression against opposition. The government's gone deaf. Today, the authorities of Yanuković have taken the course of total self - isolation of Ukraine, of erecting a prison wall between the Ukrainian people and the world, in order to wipe out the opposition, plundering the country, and searching for the already impoverished Ukrainians. The situation in Ukraine is causing more and more anxiety for the international community. What, then, is the neighborhood policy when a neighbor becomes more dangerous and treacherous? Europeans want to have reliable partners, safe neighbours, so no one will tolerate trying to establish a dictatorial regime in the middle of the 21st century.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u23	Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, on 12 May, there was an all-Ukrainian meeting of representatives of social organizations in Kiev, including the Association of Friendships of Ukraine-Syria. As the leader of the Inter-Parliamentary Group on Relations with the Syrian Parliament, I would like to announce the statement made by the participants in this meeting to the United Nations and to the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. "Dear Mr. Secretary-General of the United Nations, we, members of the All-U.S. Assembly of the Association of Friendships with the Syrian People, with the participation of the public organizations of Ukraine, have discussed the situation in and around Syria, and have addressed this issue to you and to the United Nations-led nations. In our view, the United Nations cannot be under the control of even a state like the United States, or any other country or group of countries in the world, however powerful they may be. That the United States and its allies are using the United Nations is evidence of events that took place in Libya. The Organization's Security Council made one decision, and the United States, France and some NATO member states essentially stood up for the rebels and protected not so much Libya's airspace, but destroyed the Gaddafi army. But we stress that the United Nations did not grant this permission and that such action was not condemned by the United Nations. Why? What distinguishes between those condemned by the International Nuremberg Tribunal for the Murder of civilians and prisoners of war in the years of World War II from those acts of aggression that led to the execution of thousands of civilians and soldiers in Iraq and Libya by the Washington team? Millions of people were left with housing, property. Millions of innocent people have experienced death and suffering. These crimes are not punishable. We're raising these questions because it's like a left-wing scenario, the situation is also developing around Syria. Actors known to the world, the United States and their allies seek arms, the hands of mercenary terrorists to remove Syrian President Bashar Assad and support the so-called opposition to money and weapons. The direct involvement of one country in the internal affairs of another is a violation of international law and should be discussed at the United Nations. We strongly condemn belligerent, shameful practices and believe that the United Nations must take the side of peace and security for mankind. May there be peace, peace, and guarantee of the future development of the country on the ancient Syrian earth without external interference. The Syrians must decide their own fate without the dictatorship of other countries. We appeal to the nations of the world to uphold the right of the Syrian people to decide their fate. We call you, Mr. General.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u25	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u26	Member States of the UN Security Council put an end to aggression, interference in Syria's internal affairs. The People of Ukraine Against Aggression! For supporting peace and democracy in Syria." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u27	Dear National Deputies! Showtime's up. For suggestions that require the secretariat to respond, please prepare appropriate referrals and assignments. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the issues of treaty ratification. The draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the United Nations on the Execution of Judgments by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is being announced for consideration. Why don't we look at it in a nutshell? The committee suggests that the issue be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[10:36:56]] For-189 Decision taken. The reporter is Deputy Justice Minister Dmitry Voron. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head! The bill proposes to ratify the United Nations Agreement between Ukraine and the United Nations on the Execution of Judgments by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. On behalf of Ukraine, the Agreement was signed on 7 August 2007 by the Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. The International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia was founded by the UN Security Council Resolution of 25 May 1993, which also approved its Statute. Pursuant to article 25 of the UN Statute, Ukraine, as a member of the United Nations, is subject to and implements the Security Council’s decision. The scope of the Tribunal as a subsidiary body of the UN Security Council is the prosecution of persons responsible for gross violations of international humanitarian law in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. In accordance with article 27 of the Statute of the Tribunal, the deprivation of the liberty of persons convicted by the Tribunal. in a state designated by the Tribunal itself, with a list of States that have expressed their willingness to receive convicted persons to the UN Security Council. Punishment is carried out according to the laws of the enacting State. As evidenced by the practice of applying the relevant agreements in relations between the States concerned and the International Tribunal, the enacting State takes its own decision on whether or not to accept a particular sentenced person. In doing so, the receiving State is not required to give any motivation for the reason for the refusal. The agreement is subject to ratification in accordance with paragraph "b" and "e" of section 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act. The costs of transferring the sentenced person to the territory and territory of Ukraine will be borne by the Tribunal itself. By entering into that agreement, the legal basis for cooperation between Ukraine and the United Nations will be created for the execution of court decisions and judgments by the tribunal in Ukraine and for the creation of a positive image of Ukraine. I propose to adopt the draft law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u29	Thank you. The head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, will inform the committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting carefully considered the bill and approved it by a majority of votes to support its adoption by the Supreme Council. The purpose of the draft law is to create the legal basis for cooperation between Ukraine and the United Nations, necessary for the enforcement of the judgements and judgments of the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in Ukraine if such cases occur. Ratification of the agreement will demonstrate the willingness of our State to bring conditions of detention into line with international standards for the purpose of ensuring fundamental human rights and will contribute to the formation of Ukraine's positive image not only as the founder and member of the UN but as a State that, together with the leading European states, will join in the execution of the sentences imposed by the International Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia. The decision to consent or refuse to accept a convicted person for punishment in the territory of the State that has made the corresponding covenant will be made by such a State, including Ukraine, only for its own discretion. Funding for the implementation of the provisions of the agreement will be effected from the State budget within the limits approved for the relevant pension service. All the committees and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority have made a positive conclusion. Please support the committee's recommendation decision and ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u31	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Vladimir Danilenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u32	Please give the floor to the people's representative of Alexandria.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u33	Alla Alexandrovska, please give your speech. Ruslan Knazevich will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will not vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. And I hope that you will support our position if you reflect on what this document is intended to do. Everyone knows the tragedy of Yugoslavia, everyone knows that they destroyed that country, and everyone knows the sacrifices that this people have suffered, separated, practically scattered around the world. How many refugees from Yugoslavia are living outside their homeland today. If by this law, if we had ratified an agreement that punished those criminals who had bombed Yugoslavia in violation of all international agreements, we would have supported such a solution. But the criminals who bombed Yugoslavia, who destroyed it when they destroyed the country, when millions of people made refugees, scattered all over the world, they remain without persecution, without condemnation. Moreover, representatives of these countries, NATO countries, are becoming judges. Therefore, as long as we have criminals lined up in sheep's clothing and assume the functions of judges, the communists will continue to oppose such criminal practices. See, we are invited to sign an agreement condemning serious violations of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Victims of War, 1949. Do those who bombed Yugoslavia, NATO countries, come under this condemnation? They're coming. Are they going to be convicted? No, they're not. It is anticipated that violations of the laws or customs of war will be prosecuted. NATO countries have violated the laws and customs of war? We broke it. Are they supposed to be condemned? No, it's not. We, the Communists, condemn such a two-faced position and call on you, as representatives of other factions, not to vote in favour of ratifying the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u35	Ruslan Knazevitch, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Andrew School will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u36	Dear Head, dear colleagues! It seems to me that all our troubles are because of the ignorance of the subject. In fact, the UN Criminal Court of the former Yugoslavia has long since been concerned with issues exclusively of the former Yugoslavia. And he's taking care of issues of international criminal justice in general, and he's long been renamed the UN International Criminal Court, which is just in the same room in The Hague as the former Yugoslavia court. That's the first one. The other one. Dear colleagues, this is a long, bearded issue, since Ukraine has not ratified an international convention, including the United Nations Convention, which envisioned an international system of criminal responsibility, for many years. Various factors were involved. Including a well-known decision of the Constitutional Court, which provided for the non-ratification of the Rome Statute and all international legal instruments that allowed for international criminal liability. At the same time, this bill certainly needs to be ratified. Yet it is important to consider that certain things in some parts of it are indeed contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, we may still need to consider these circumstances so that there are no other collisions. But this is already the question of the executives who, in order to carry out the ratification, have to adapt Ukrainian legislation to this convention so that it does not conflict with our Constitution. Or if that's what you need, and I'm not ruling out, you have to make complex changes to the Constitution and this part. On the other hand, I would like to point out that immediately with the ratification, it was necessary to amend not only the Criminal Procedure Code but also a number of other legislative acts in Ukraine, primarily the Criminal Enforcement Code, because they were about detention, the conditions for the detention of international criminals, including in any country that ratified such a convention. What are the conditions of detention in Ukraine, we already know. So you still want to let me paint a vivid picture of these conditions all over the world. No, let's first settle these issues legislatively, and then we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u37	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u38	and then we'll talk about our possible level of achievement of a degree that will allow us to be integrated into the international criminal liability system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u39	Andrew Schlell, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland." Valery Bondick will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Colleagues and respectable radio and television audiences! Of course, I agree with the previous speaker that before we go out on this platform, we should not read the title of the bill, but rather read the bill. True, I understand that, as a percentage of the 90 deputies don't do this, and above all, those national MPs who aim to destroy the Ukrainian state, eliminate Ukrainian independence and establish here, restore the Communist Empire here. That's why I think. But you still have to read before, because it's useful, because reading is knowledge, and knowledge is power. Therefore, I would like to point out that we must ratify at least this international convention to ensure that all lawbreakers working and living in Ukraine know that there is such an international court, a criminal international court from the United Nations, which acts under the auspices of this powerful international structure, which is founded by Ukraine, and hides itself from its jurisdiction, will be very difficult for those who are now violating the law. Because I want to remind you that criminal persecution is taking place not only against military dictators who are persecuting their opposition, but against those who wear the image of democracy on themselves and who are also persecuting their own opposition is torturing them. Because even dictators from Myanmar or former Burma were unable to figure out what the Ukrainian authorities had guessed. Because a well - known lawyer, the opposition leader of Aung San Suu Kyi in Myanmar, was held under house arrest. And because there were dictators in power, but officers, because they had at least a notion of officer honor. And Ukraine’s present authorities have not only beaten. She tortured the leader of the opposition, put him in prison. Why? Because they have no honor for any officer, of course, as they live by their ideas, conscience, or, unfortunately, mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u41	Valerius Bondik, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, the distinguished Presidency, Ukraine as a subject of international obligations, international relations, as a member of the UN since 1945 – Victory is indeed obliged to sign and ratify all international agreements relating to our status - the status of Ukraine in the United Nations. But with regard to an international criminal court. Dear colleagues, really selective processes, criminal proceedings that are going on in the former Yugoslavia, they give us reasons for us, Ukrainian politicians to turn to our foreign ministry, our ombudsman, the Ministry of Justice about respect for their citizens. Remember when a Ukrainian journalist, operator CNN Taras Procko, died? So the Spanish judge ordered the arrest of an American tank crew who fired a shot in Iraq. Our justice was denied. But we are a full member of the United Nations. Next. The second element of this question. In fact, all the processes that began after the former Yugoslavia did not come to an end. Ratko Mladic, who is now a defendant, is clearly giving testimony that exposes him because it wasn't a police operation, it was a military operation. And he was a military man protecting the Serb people, the Serb community. Hence, he cannot have any relation to the indictment. Slobodan Milosevic, I spoke to his brother, former correspondent of the "True" newspaper in Moscow, Voislo Milosovich, who died without proving his guilt because he was innocent to the Serbian Orthodox people. Therefore, honourable colleagues, indeed, we must approach the ratification of these agreements without double standards. Sadly, though, from the point of view of international law as a member of the United Nations, we must ratify this covenant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Oleg Zarubinsky, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u44	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! There is indeed a key fundamental position that, according to the UN Charter, article 25, Ukraine as a member of the United Nations, and as Oleg Grigorovich rightly said, not only is the United Nations member but the founder of the United Nations subject to the decision of the Security Council and executes them. Well, it's a position that obviously doesn't make sense to discuss. I have a few questions. I looked at which countries ratified this agreement and I have a question. Why did only 16 countries ratify this agreement? Why were other countries that were directly involved or indirectly involved in the 1990 events in Yugoslavia not ratified? That's the question. One second. In Ukraine today, Carthage is said to be destroyed. And whatever you're looking at, it's all the same subject. And among them is the question of selective justice. Of course, there is selective justice. For those who fought on one side or who participated in this conflict today are objects of condemnation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u45	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u46	Others today are in the leadership of a nation that has been recognized by dozens of countries only, you know?Oh, my God! Selective justice differs. But that's not the deal. The agreement is to soften and improve the conditions for the detention of prisoners. So for Ukraine, it's just fundamentally convenient, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u47	Thank you, thank you. Dear National Deputies! Question completed. A motion for approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the United Nations Organization on the Execution of Judgments rendered by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia is put to the vote. Please vote. [[10:53:10]] For 307 The factions? Please. Decision taken. The Regional Party is 154, "BUT - "The Fatherland" – 84, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 20, communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 17, non-fractional – 12. The draft Law on the Ratification of Protocol No. 3 to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities on the Unification of Regional Cooperation is being announced for consideration. [[Registration number 0249]] I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[10:54:10]] For 218. Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade Pavelenko Volodymyr Petrovich. Correspondent is the deputy head of the European Integration Committee, Stepan Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u48	Honorary Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill proposes to ratify Protocol No. 3 to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities on the Unification of Regional Cooperation, done in Utrecht on November 16, 2009. The Protocol aims to promote cooperation between territorial communities or authorities of different States in accordance with the political and administrative structures and international obligations of States, preventing difficulties arising from differences in national legislation in the field of cross-border and inter-territorial cooperation. The protocol establishes that territorial communities either. and other bodies may form a body of cross-border cooperation in the form of groupings of Euro-regional cooperation within the territories of the member States of the Council of Europe that are parties to this Protocol. The aim is to encourage, support and develop the interests of the people of cross-border and inter-territorial cooperation between their members in the areas of shared competence and in accordance with the powers established in accordance with the national laws of the respective States. Ratification of the Protocol will promote cross-border cooperation, taking into account the principles and priorities of regional policy. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u49	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Stepan Volodymyrovich Krupil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u50	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The European Integration Committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. The Committee found that the ratification of the above-mentioned protocol would contribute to the effective implementation of cross-border cooperation, taking into account the principles and priorities of State regional policy, and would be a further step towards simplifying the procedures for the creation of effective cross-border cooperation bodies. While appreciating the proposed project to comply with Ukraine's international legal obligations, I will note that the project is actually aimed at improving Ukraine's legal and regulatory framework in the field of cross-border cooperation, as well as bringing it into line with international standards. The ratification of the Additional Protocol to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation, to which Ukraine joined as early as 1993, will allow for the unification of the rules on the formation of membership, activities and obligations of Euro-regional cooperation associations and the subordination of their rights to the State in which the OSCE headquarters is located. [[abbreviated by the EEA]] This is very important for Ukraine, since nearly 20 percent of the population of our nation, 6 districts, 100 districts, 109 cities are part of a network of regional cooperation. I will also point out that the decision of our committee is in line with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as with the conclusion of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Foreign Affairs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u51	Thank you, too. Dear colleagues, please sign up for this draft law. Yes, your name, please. Stepan Kurpil, please. Who will act? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u52	Thank you. I'll do the gig. Dear friends! I want to brief you on this subject and inform you that the Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland was held in Warsaw from 14 to 15 May this year. And there was a great deal of attention given to cross-border cooperation, as well as cooperation in local self - government. In fact, the resolution says that the Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland considers it necessary to strengthen cooperation between the authorities of Ukraine and Poland, which requires the opening of new border crossings, such as "Nizankovici-Malchowich" and "Ugrini-Dolbichov". The Parliamentary Assembly "Ukraine-Poland" addressed the presidents and prime ministers of Ukraine and Poland, as well as fellow MPs, to take all measures aimed at deepening the strategic partnership of our peoples, and to bring Ukraine closer to European structures. The development of the Eastern Partnership and the strengthening of cooperation within the Carpathian macro-region of Central and Eastern European States are of particular importance to the Assembly. Dear colleagues, at a meeting last year between the presidents of Ukraine and Russia, it was decided to open 11 new border crossing points on the Russian-Ukrainian border. And nothing is yet happening on the border of Ukraine-EU. We don't have any new intersection points. When Poland was preparing to join the EU, they had more than 50 crossing points with Germany. On the Ukrainian side, it's completely inappropriate to solve this question, and I think it's opening up new points.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u53	Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u54	guide the government that policies need to be pursued for European integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u55	Thank you, too. Alla Alexandrovska, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! The Communist faction will support Protocol No. 3 to the Framework Convention on Border Cooperation between Territorial Communities. We believe that, in fact, borders should not prevent people from communicating. What is more, very often the boundaries are set out purely theoretically, dividing whole families, dividing nations, dividing people who have lived together for centuries and creating certain obstacles to normal human communication. We will therefore support and support the ratification of the instrument. What is more, it is indeed the goal. The goal is noble. We have recently voted with you in favour of simplifying communication procedures in eastern Ukraine. We now support the process of facilitating human communication on the western border. But it is a great surprise that this very right policy is at odds with our domestic Ukrainian policy. I am referring to the last decision of Ukrazaliznica, which tears Ukraine apart and prevents people from communicating within Ukraine. Today, it will be almost impossible to reach its relatives, friends or business reasons to travel to another region of Ukraine, because ties have been broken. Today, we are about to cancel all train routes, and people cannot move freely in Ukraine. I hope that this is a healthy, normal policy to facilitate communication between people living in border regions, and that it will be brought to the territory of Ukraine as a whole, because within Ukraine we must have the same opportunities for free communication, easy communication within Ukraine. I would like to take advantage of this rostrum and turn to the Skruzalznice to address the Government of Ukraine: stop making completely abnormal decisions that disengage the people of Ukraine, which prevent people from living normally and from moving properly inside Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u57	Yuri Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u58	I'd like to hand it over to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u59	Oleg Zarubinski, faction of the People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u60	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party. Dear colleagues, today many of the least engaged and far-sighted politicians in Europe are calling what is going on in Europe and understanding what is going to happen in Europe in the near future, more and more often they call it, and more precisely they use the term "Europe of the Regions." Right, Oleg Grigorovich? And they use this as an accident because they understand that the cross-border relationship, the relationship between the regions that have a common border, which are adjacent to them, is much less politicized, much less conjunctural, and does not depend on the central policy that is often pursued in both European and non-European countries, resulting from political convergence, electoral interests, their own political ratings, and so on. So cross-border relations are the most pragmatic relationships. And in this case, in a good way, the most mercantile relationship. And so any initiation, any initiative that helps to reduce formalism in cross-border relations, obviously by the Ukrainian Parliament, should be welcomed by the national parliament. I would like to point out that this third protocol is not a big one, but it allows us to solve a number of problems related to differences in political systems, mechanisms and algorithms for the functioning of local authorities, such as Ukraine and Poland, which exist in Ukraine and Belarus, Ukraine and other neighbouring countries. So it helps local authorities, local communities to solve economic, cultural, if you want, cultural cooperation on a cross-border scale. So the faction of the People's Party will undoubtedly support this ratification, and it will benefit Ukrainian people, millions of Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u61	Ivan Popescu, one minute, then Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u62	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! I want to encourage you to support this ratification, because the ratification of the Third Protocol to the Madrid Convention is just the example of how our delegation worked at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It was the head of the Ukrainian delegation who prepared the report in January 2008 and on the basis of this report that it was proposed to develop and adopt the protocol. Therefore, as representatives of the Party of Regions, we will vote because I informed the Council of Europe and the Council of Europe at that time supported us. The main problem that we were paying attention to at the time was that we had to prevent the difficulties that had arisen as a possible result of differences in national legislation and cross-border cooperation. And we wanted to give more authority to local and regional authorities, the ratification of this protocol would allow regional authorities to cooperate in economic, cultural, social, and the border movement would develop. So we urge everyone to ratify, because this is a profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u63	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u64	This is not only the Party of Regions, but also the whole of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament, and this is our contribution to the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u65	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u66	Dear head, dear fellows! In fact, it's not profit, it's just a statement of fact. We're legitimizing those processes that, fortunately, in Ukraine long ago became a common tradition. And it is the cross-border cooperation between a number of Ukrainian regions and our Western neighbours that has enabled Ukraine to sound at least positive in Europe in recent years. More than that, the best experience of Ukrainian-Polish co-operation was a stronger argument in resolving the issue of providing "Euro" for Ukraine and Poland. The border regions of Ukraine-Slovakia, Ukraine-Hungary, work as well. And I'll tell you that given that nebula in general in the perspective of Ukraine with Europe, it is our bet that will obviously be made in a kind of cooperation that has a perspective and that will essentially be that locomotive that will remain on the ups and downs of our relationship and will gradually drag us into Europe as if someone here in Kiev didn't want that to happen. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u67	Complete your opinion, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u68	So surely our faction will actively support this ratification document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u69	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. The committee proposes to the Supreme Council to support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Protocol. The main scientific and expert management has no comment on this document. In view of this, honourable national MPs have put to the vote the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of Protocol No. 3 to the European Framework Convention on Cross-border Cooperation between Territorial Communities or Authorities concerning the Unification of Euro-regional Cooperation. [[0249]] Please vote. [[11:09:01]] For 355 The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Act on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on air links is under review. [[Registration number 0252]] The suggestion to consider this issue in a simplified way. I'll put her to the vote. [[11:09:44]] For 217 Decision taken. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Infrastructure Vladimir Kornienko. The Coroner is the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u70	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be presented with a draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Air Connection, which is designed to implement the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on Air Relations. The draft Law provides for ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the treaty that was signed on August 4, 2011, in Kiev. The implementation of the law does not require funding from the state budget or from Ukraine’s local budgets. The adoption of the draft law will ensure the creation and functioning of a reliable legal mechanism at the international level for the implementation and revitalization of bilateral inter-State relations between Ukraine and Sri Lanka, contribute to the development of cooperation in the field of aviation, the further expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines. Taking this into account, please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u71	Thank you, too. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs Please, your performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u72	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs at its meeting considered the bill and unanimously approved recommending it to the Supreme Council to accept it and ratify the agreement. The agreement is aimed at creating a two-way legal basis for an international air connection between Ukraine and the State of Sri Lanka, which will contribute to the expansion of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines, the improvement of business, scientific, technical and cultural ties to the development of a mutually beneficial trade. The adoption of the law and its implementation do not provide for funding from government or local budgets. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of this agreement. Please support the committee's decision and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, please sign up for this discussion. Well, if there aren't any, we're voting now. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone has a warning, we'll unanimously support it. So really, especially before the resort season, when our compatriots are actively opening up this region, it's too important to have a direct link between Ukraine and Sri Lanka. So please support this ratification document.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u75	Ivan. Vladimir Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u77	Ivan Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I have taken the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u79	Well, let's put it this way: it's now Popescu, it's written down, and then it's you, Vladimir Yavorowski. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u80	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The major colleagues, the ratification of this agreement will not only contribute to the development of cooperation between Ukraine and the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the field of aviation, the further development of the geography of flights by Ukrainian airlines, the improvement of business connections, but will also contribute to the travel of our businessmen, tourists and so on, which will also have some economic impact. Since the ratification of this agreement does not require funding from the state budget, a party of regions is building a pro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u81	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, literally a few days ago, a close friend of mine returned from Sri Lanka, where he was resting with his wife for about 10 days. And literally yesterday, he was so excited to talk about this country and about it. But most of all, what I was complaining about was that we had to make about four or three transplants and wait a few hours, because there's no direct flight from Kiev to Sri Lanka. A unique country that was involved in civil war because useful fossils were invented. Of course, it's extremely poor, but for our middle class, it's very cheap in service, in food, in hotels, and so forth. That is why we will do a good job if we today adjust our decision, in fact, to make the agreement that was signed in August of last year effective. And when there are direct flights to this, once again, a remarkable country with unique weather conditions, a warm ocean and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u83	Dear National Deputies! Question completed. The Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ratify the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. The main scientific and scientific management has no comment on the document. The proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on air links is put to the vote. [[Registration number 0252]] Please vote. [[11:16:08]] For 359 Decision taken. Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, Reporter is Ukraine's national deputy Mustafa Djemiliev. [[Project registration number 5515]] The focal point is the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Zarubinsky. Please. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you, it's such a law that's complete, responsible. So there won't be any charges that we're a predator. You won't want to speak, we'll vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u84	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Dear National Deputies! The issue of the need for the adoption of laws aimed at restoring rights and legal regulation and the process of returning to their homeland of nations and persons deported in Soviet times on a national basis has been on the table for many years, almost since the first years of the declaration of Ukraine’s independence. International organisations, including the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE High Commissioner for Nationalities, have repeatedly been reminded of the need to adopt such laws. This was also discussed in a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the results of parliamentary hearings entitled "Problems of legislative regulation and the implementation of State policy on the protection of the rights of the Crimean Tatar people and national minorities who have been deported and voluntarily returned to Ukraine" since 20 April 2000. If these laws were adopted at the right time, I am sure that I would be able to significantly reduce the level of international tension in such a sensitive region of Ukraine as Crimea, in particular to avoid many land conflicts and self-absorbing. I remind you that a similar law called "Rehabilitation of Repressed Nations" was passed by the Russian Federation as early as April 1991. Finally, one such law, entitled "Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported from Ukraine by National Sign" aimed at restoring some of the social rights of returnees after a lengthy discussion, was adopted in June 2004 by the 370th MPs and signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, the law did not take effect because the former President Kuchma had a veto against him. The President's experts' arguments were discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Some arguments were approved as appropriate, but some of the committees disagreed and insisted on previous formulations. The President's veto bill had not been fully considered in the session hall, and a violent electoral campaign had begun. Then came a new law on deported persons with the same name, but a completely different meaning, and more precisely without any substantial content. On April 8, 2009, the Kabminou project was discussed at a round table organized by the Human Rights Committee, headed by Oleg Zarubinski, which was attended by representatives of the organization of almost all deported nationalities, i.e. those whose legal rights were intended to protect this law, as well as representatives of the OSCE High Commissioner for Nationality. The members of the round table unanimously decided that it was absolutely impossible to pass the law in a given way. As a result of the round table, the chairman of the committee sent the Prime Minister a letter requesting him to withdraw the bill. The Kabmin Bill was finally revoked by Kabmin himself at the end of 2009, and on February 24, 2010, a draft was re-registered, the text of which had previously been adopted by 370 votes of the national deputies, although it was promised by the President, and many of the rights proposed by the President himself. Before this bill are the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Commissioner of the OSCE on Knut Wallebek's nationalities. The first two contain a few comments and propose new amendments, which we believe will invalidate the basic content of the bill and make it substantively declarant. The OSCE High Commissioner considers the bill to be in line with European standards on the rights of nationalities and proposes to adopt it. The Human Rights and International Relations Committee, having considered the bill at its meeting, also adopted it and also recommended that the Supreme Council approve it as a whole. Ukrainian President Viktor Janukovic also considers it necessary to pass this law, and on August 12, 2010, he directed Prime Minister Azarov to work out a bill registered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine under number 5515, the one currently under consideration, and to bring it before the Supreme Council by November 1, 2010. So, honourable national MPs, I ask you to vote in favour of passing this law as a basis. I am confident that this will make a significant contribution to the establishment of international harmony and the strengthening of stability in a region like Crimea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for a question to the reporter, if there are. Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u86	Comrade Jemiliev! Indeed, as you have determined, there has been a problem since the existence of the Ukrainian independent state. You represent, of course, the interests of the greatest crowd of people who have suffered through deportation on national grounds are Crimean Tatars. However, not only from Crimea but also from other nationalities, Ukrainians from the territory of the Polish Republic in the Soviet Union were displaced. As you think, there's a way to solve this problem at the same time, because it's very sharp for many representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Kosiv. In fact, not only Crimean Tatars and many other nationalities have been relocated from Ukraine, but also evictions on national grounds from Zakarpatya. They were relocated after World War II by Ukrainians from Poland. But every deportation has its own characteristics. We therefore find it useful to have a separate law deported from the Crimea territory and to have a separate law, which has already been registered in Poland, and to be considered in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u89	Vladimir Yavorowski, "BUT" faction, "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u90	Dear friend Mustafa! Of course, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block will be hot to support this bill in order to restore the colossal injustice that has happened to the people to whom you have the honour to belong. When Alexander the Great returned after another victorious battle, Diogenes sat and pondered the problems of the universe. Macedonian asked him: "What do you need, philosopher? Tell me, and I'll do anything for you." He said, "If you can, don't replace the sun." I would like very much not to replace the sun with the Crimean Tatars who returned to their land. My question, in fact, is that my colleague Mikhailo Kossov has already touched him, and I think that Operation Vistula lies in the same plane of restoration of justice, but we, as we want to build a democratic country, I think we should think about other national minorities -- Germans who were deported before the wars. You support this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u91	Yes, it is. We have a bill called "O." return of persons deported by national sign from the territory of Ukraine." But the special feature is that the Crimean Tatar people are separately referred to as the Crimean Tatar people because the Crimean Tatar people have been deported. And, say, Germans, Bulgarians, Armenians from Ukraine, like ethnics living in Ukraine. A very different question is that of ethnic Ukrainians who have been displaced from the territory. Operation Visla in World War II. That's why. This law has been drafted, and we will discuss and adopt it here. We will fully uphold this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u92	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u93	Dear Mr. Mustafa! I sincerely welcome you and thank you for speaking in English. [[It sounds like a Tatar phrase.]] That's what I'm telling you and all the Crimean Tatars. And I'll tell you. We will certainly support this bill. But I have a question. If you don't see the need for a second reading to strengthen part of your bill regarding the calculation, the cost of the state budget. Because there's no way we're going to be able to accept it as a law right now, because you don't have any of those expenses until the end. So the question is, don't you think you need the Ministry of Finance to continue consultations on how much this bill will cost you? That, by the way, would depend on his fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u94	I think these calculations can be done. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill states that a programme is being developed annually to address the problems of returnees, in accordance with Ukraine's capabilities. Therefore, there is no burdensome point for the country. It is possible that they will decide to the extent that the opportunities of our Ukraine allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u95	Thank you. Time's up. Have a seat, please. I invite you to report to Oleg Zarubinski, head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u96	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, your consideration of the proposed draft Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, submitted by National Deputy of Ukraine Mustafa Jemiliev, I would like to vote in particular, an active, initiative-oriented member of our committee. This project is aimed at settlement, and I think everyone in the room understands this, an extremely social problem that has been waiting for more than a year to come. I would like to remind you that several requests were brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The history of the issue is even the law passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2004, but the President of Ukraine then applied the veto. And for various reasons, the question remains open until now. The problem of restoring the rights of deported persons was the subject of parliamentary hearings, round tables organized by the committee. As a result, questions from international institutions are constantly raised on the Ukrainian side: PARENTS, OSCE, and every time the need for the adoption of the relevant legislative act is stressed. During the years of independence, some 250,000 people returned to Ukraine, deported by national means. Within the framework of current legislation, the state is taking steps to equip them. Some budgetary resources are allocated for these purposes each year, but the results of the Court of Auditors’ audit show that their use is ineffective and, in particular, according to the Court of Auditors, this is due to the imperfection of legislation in this area and, above all, to the absence of a legislative act that determines the legal basis of the State policy on returnees. To date, we do not have the legal term "deported person", "members of the family of the deported person", the establishment of State guarantees and the mechanism of their social support. As we considered the draft Law at the committee meeting, we saw that we would still have to work with it, especially with regard to the main points that the committee was discussing and that is true. This is the definition of the time frame for deportations and the circle of persons on which the law will extend, by the way, of this, of colleagues in questions. So in a project to isolate the question of the restoration of the rights of persons deported between 1941 and 44 years, actually. This coincides with the time of mass deportations on the basis of the national sign that occurred in the territory of the modern - day Autonomous Republic of Crimea. At the same time, there are people who have been deported from other regions of Ukraine and in other time frames whose restoration, respected colleagues, is also in need of settlement. There will be a need for further work and other provisions of the bill, but the committee is ready to go to work. The need for drafting the bill is pointed out in its conclusion by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, but we did not limit ourselves to that conclusion. In view of the complex history of the legislative settlement of deportations, the committee sent a bill to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities. It is noteworthy that Kabmin supported the bill on the basis of the proposals he made. The OSCE High Commissioner for National Minorities expressed support for the draft law, noting that the draft law should serve as a basis for further elaboration and clarification. With respect to the social significance of the bill and its potential for further elaboration, the committee proposes a draft Ukrainian Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Signs of the First Reading Review to be adopted as a basis. [[Registration number 5515]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for the question, if any, to the head of the committee. Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u98	You remember that on your committee we discussed very actively another similar project, which I have under my hand, about the recognition of deported Ukrainian citizens who were forcibly displaced from Poland in 1944-1951. So it's about the representatives of the Ukrainian nation, who, as you're quite right to report, were subjected to political deportation by a national sign because they were Ukrainian. To you, as an experienced legislator, do you think it would be possible to have the legal norms of this law that we are discussing right now and the one that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u99	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u100	Complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u101	And that bill that we discussed on your committee and the author of which I am, somehow unite. Or is it true that there is a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u102	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor Michael Vasilovich. I remember really well, we were looking at your bill, absolutely right, by the way. I will answer very briefly and clearly: there is no confrontation or contradiction between the Mustafa Djemiliev bill and what you're proposing. Although based on what Comrade Jamilev rightly said, the bill is called "Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign." When I said that the committee was having a discussion about time limits and so forth, it's a discussion, it's an opportunity to take your suggestions into account. Because what you're talking about is also under the name or subject to the legislative regulation of this bill. So I don't see any contradiction here between what might be taken into account when preparing for the second reading, and those proposals that if we vote on the basis, you'll obviously give out your bill in such a cumulative way. I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u104	Yes, Blackwill, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u105	Your Honor, the head of the committee! In support of the committee's decision and in support of this bill, I do have a question, but you mentioned the Cabinet of Ministers' comment, could you stop at them in more detail, what's not exactly there? And the second question. I don't think so. More specifically, it's a continuation of this question. Do you not think that this kind of bill should be submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers itself, because the issue of national peace, the return of the rights of the deported peoples and of all nationalities in general should be the basis of the policies of the Ukrainian State, because this is an extremely important issue? And more than that, if we have all the issues solved, it's obviously going to create a positive investment climate in the state not only a good environment, but also a very convenient one, from the point of view of the development of the Ukrainian economy, foreign investment. So on this issue, this is the very role of the state in this issue and more of its activity. I think it's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Blackwolf, well, you, I think, know that the role of the state is enormous in solving this issue. Moreover, the role of the only state in Ukraine. The point is, I don't want to go into history, but Ukraine has deported Crimean Tatars, but Ukraine has taken over today -- the only country that has deported them, the obligation to work, to give land, to equip Crimean Tatars, and Mustafa Djemilev knows this very well. So let's be honest about that Ukraine is the only state that today has taken on this huge complex mission, which is to address not only material preferences, but also to form infrastructure to equip deported peoples. So let's say that Ukraine is performing its mission. But we need to put in place a legal framework in Parliament for this mission to be done better, more efficiently, more dynamic, without any violations – and for this, I think, a bill. Was it to be submitted by another subject of the legislative initiative? You know, for the time being, I was talking about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u107	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u108	Several of the citings of the legislative initiative on these issues differed. I don't think we should focus on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u109	Thank you. Thank you, sit down, please. Dear colleagues, I ask you to sign up for the factions. Factions, please. Let me see. Yes, Pavlovsky, Simonenko, Hare, Dry. Now I'm asking you to sign up for the National Deputies. Please sign up. Okay. Let's move on to the performances. Mikhailo Kosov, "BUT" faction, "Fatherland." Peter Simonenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u110	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear fellow national MPs! So this problem has existed in the state since our country existed. It's a problem that's so important to society that it can only be compared to the 1932-33 famine. This is a tragedy that has plagued many citizens of our nation, representatives of different nationalities. We solved the problem of famine by adopting the Law in this room. But the problem of violent political deportation by the national sign that hangs over our history, over our politics, we still can't solve it. Colleagues, very often when it comes to this issue, and today too, say that some changes will have to be made in accordance with article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget. Because, of course, solving these problems requires some financial security. However, I want to tell you that we have the Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, which is financially already providing much. But first of all, we need to determine the status of persons, and we need to recognize historical truth. And that is exactly what is the most important, essential requirement of these laws. The law proposed by colleague Mustafa Jamilev is, of course, to be adopted in the first reading. But I ask you very much next Wednesday to put into the agenda, to discuss and adopt the law that I am already trying to pass through the Supreme Council during many calls. Here's the final version, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, registered on 16.06.2011. I want to tell you that the same laws on deported persons are in Poland. Poland has passed such a law with regard to its citizens, and we do not accept it. Moreover, such a law is in Italy for those Italians who were relocated from the territory of Yugoslavia at one time. There is an international court ruling on this issue. Let's be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u111	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u112	Politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u113	Peter Simonenko, Communist faction. Viacheslav Kirilenko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, you and I are the only ones to mark the 67th anniversary of the Great Homeland War. As I look at the draft today, it seems to me that, above all, the law, the draft law, we must consider the reasons for what has served to make such a serious decision as to deport the Crimean Tatar people. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, what these reasons were. The reasons for the deportation were that the events that took place between 1941 and 1944 in the occupied territory in Crimea gave rise to the decision of the Soviet Government. When most of the representatives of the Crimean Tatar people who fought honestly on the fronts of the Great Homeland War died, in honour of whom we today speak words of gratitude and gratitude, we were given the title Hero of the Soviet Union, at the same time two divisions were formed to defend the Crimea, more than 20,000 men of the Crimea people being fully armed and tasked with promoting the protection of Crimea. These two divisions are 20,000, and I call these numbers to make you understand, of the total population of the Crimean Tatar people, how many traitors there were. One day they took Hitler’s side and swore to Hitler to fight on Hitler’s side, exactly 20,000. It was those representatives who contributed to the surrender and transfer of all the bookmarks to organize the guerrilla movement in the Crimea that protected the concentration camps in Crimea, where hundreds of thousands of Soviet soldiers and innocent citizens died, including, I mean, the civilian population in particular. They were the ones who burned the bellies of pregnant women, as evidenced in all the courts where they were convicted of these atrocities and crimes. It was in 1944 that the Soviet Government decided to divide the perpetrators and innocents precisely for the rescue of the Crimean Tatar people that the measure of removal of the Crimean Tatar people from Crimea had been applied. Why? Because these atrocities would necessarily lead to a state of civil war. And I have no doubt that these would be very serious consequences. Where they were deported, they were educated, they became academics, they became leaders of the largest enterprises, and it was to save the Crimean Tatar people that the operation was carried out. I want to emphasize again. All the demands demanded and expressed by those who were deported have been resolved and all have been met by the laws of Ukraine today. I would like to warn you, dear colleagues, that the adoption of this law will dramatically exacerbate the situation in Crimea, especially because the same land captures are being threatened and.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u115	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u116	I'm a phrase. and a privileged provision for a part of those who live in the Crimea.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u117	Thank you. Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Jaroslav Suhi will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u118	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Here we have just seen a classic pattern of totally savage inflammation of national hostility in Ukraine, absolute political and historical ignorance, which has been aimed at squabbling Ukrainian citizens and beyond, as the Company has been doing for decades. In fact, this was a performance by those who evicted Crimean Tatars, which was a performance by the NCCD. [[Applause]] And we see that the NKVD has not changed its position, even though it has been for decades. I tell the ignorant that only participants in the fighting only to Uzbekistan during 1944-1946 were sent from Crimean Tatars to 8,000 995 persons, only participants in the fighting. For what? For being Crimean Tatars. This is deportation according to the national sign practiced by the Bolsheviks in Crimea in relation to Crimean Tatars, Armenians, Greeks, Crimeans, Karaites -- all those whom they wanted to clear out of this territory to further create their displeasures. Now it's our job, the Ukrainians. In 2004, Parliament passed a law similar to that of the present. Unfortunately, then President Kuchma vetoed. But all civilized, democratic international organizations say that the rights of deported peoples must be protected. This is what the OSCE says, says PARJE, an organization that is recognized by everyone in Europe. That is why Ukraine must finally begin to resolve this issue, because Crimean Tatars are citizens of our great and vast Motherland, whose name is Ukraine, and who must solve the problems of all their children. And that's why the Honorable Mustafa-aga bill is beautiful in the sense that he's starting to solve this issue. He defines deported persons, defines the circle of persons, offers time limits. He introduces rehabilitation, compensation. And most importantly, the bill clearly states that Ukraine recognizes deportation as a national sign of the criminal acts of the former authorities of the former USSR, because the USSR has gone into non-existence, and the independent Ukraine with the problems they have created has left it alone. We must look for funds to equip the deported, we must provide them with life in the Crimea because it is their historic homeland. Let us vote for this law; there will be more peace in our country. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Crimean Tatar people!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u119	Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, your performance. The next one will be the Chaplian of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I've been preparing for the performance, but I have to say in a slightly different way: "The wars have ended. We're out of the trenches. The war was over. Peace, peace in Europe. The war was over. We're free at last. And even children don't play war anymore. We're all heroes and victims at the same time. So how many hearts will hate to eat? So that everyone may be made well by fierce anger. Forgive me, brother, forgive me, my friend." Those words from a beautiful song by Rybczynski could be a good epilogue for our conversation. I think in this session room we should choose a different tone and talk about something different. Don't interrupt me! If I vote, it's my business. I said! And to you, Mr. Moskal, I'll sing your Moscow language later! Dear colleagues! This bill is our debt. Ukraine has paid and will continue to pay off other people’s debts. It's Chernobyl. Afghanistan is ours. We're children of war. To us and to the evicted nations. John Popescu's in his own village. I was recently with him. 300 people didn't come back from the deportation. Ivan Popescu is sitting in the session room. We have to repay these debts. I don't think we should be in this session room talking about owners, about gangsters, about other things. It was. It's a story. This was then from 1941 to 1945. I don't think there's a political power in this session room that's willing to take responsibility for the injustice that's once been done. Or God forbid she should be excused. It's unacceptable, it's impossible. I'll tell my honor's colleague Mustafa. I didn't accidentally address him in Crimean Tatar language, because I think that language should sound the same way in the organs of the Crimea institutions, where these people are. But that's not the point. Dear colleague, I didn't ask you that question by chance. Today we're supposed to, and you'd take it for work, because it doesn't have the main thing, without which it won't even be signed, it's going to be committed: there's no financial and economic justification. So what I'm doing here is I'm turning to my own faction: colleagues, let's not reject this bill, let's not film it. Let's send this bill to work on getting an expert opinion from the Ministry of Finance, then it'll be fair, right in front of everyone. Moreover, this problem needs to be addressed in a comprehensive and systematic manner. We have a basic Law on Victims of Political Repression, we have a basic law. This bill, by its colleague Mustafa, has to comply with this bill. Then it's not going to be a declaration, then it's going to be a problem, a concrete, real solution to this problem. I'm proposing a bill to send for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u121	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. Vladimir Karpuk will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u122	Honorable colleagues, respected citizens, distinguished national MPs! The MP's Reform for the Future is certainly in favour of restoring historical justice for those who have been deported at national level. This bill attempts to resolve this issue. I would like as a representative of the parliamentary group to move away from the political element and not try to pry on this difficult issue in this sessional room. I understand that the election is ahead, but that's not what we're gonna do. I would like to draw attention only to the technical component of this bill. We fully support the thesis that without such a bill, Ukraine cannot live on. Yes, indeed, we must recognize that the status of persons who have experienced actual torture under such a sign should be determined. Yes, we must express the Ukrainian people’s position on this matter, that is a fact. But there is another side: Is it right, or is it normal, or is it legal in terms of the law? There are some flaws in it, and I think it's worth paying attention to, correcting them, returning them to the session hall in the form of a completed project and really accepting, putting your shoulders in the hands of the Crimean Tatar people who have experienced such torture. What am I talking about? These are articles 3, 4, 7, 8, 13 and transitional positions. Well, if you, the national MPs, read this bill carefully, you can see that it was written on a long time ago and perhaps relied on some other standards. Little wonder, then, why is such a great deal of pressure directed at Ukraine? So I want to tell you, Ukraine is a poor country, we all know that, a country that is not able to afford social spending today. We've calculated in the parliamentary group, involving three experts who are already familiar with these issues, in our view, 200, give us 200 billion dollars -- that's the actual burden on the financial component of the Ukrainian budget. Well, can we handle it today? Well, of course, we need to make sure that this bill is finalized. Although the law is good, the state needs it, so it needs to be stopped. We're ready to lay our shoulders, we're ready to add to the created labor group to the fa. On the fact that she's being drafted on the profile committee of her two representatives who are familiar with these issues and that this bill is being drafted, then we're going to give 19 votes for his support. And the last. I think we should talk about what would be right for this bill to be fully coordinated with the law that is in force today -- the rehabilitation of victims of political repression in Ukraine, where there are already certain questions about the status of deported persons, the establishment of deportations, compensation, etc. So let's put this bill to work, take off the crimson, and in this way support the real Crimean people who have been tortured. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, this is an offer made, and we have 15 minutes of public speaking. Let's finish this consideration, and then we'll take a break so that we don't break up. I'd like to support you. No objections? Yes, Koval Viacheslav is transferred to the speech by his colleague Karpuk, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Vladimir Yavorowski will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u124	Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! May 18 will be the anniversary of the deportation of the Crimean Tatar people, where the whole, part of the great Crimean Tatar people will traditionally meet in Simferopol and celebrate that woeful date for their people. We have debts. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has huge debts and not only to the Crimean Tatar people, for they were deported from Ukraine. And we had to look at the problems that stand in the area of Crimean Tatars -- the return to Ukraine. Yes, we made a commitment to return them. But whether we have considered the issue of social security, or whether we have considered the issue of decommissioning the land that took place there with the land in the Crimean Tatars, with the construction of those miserable homes where they must live because they return to their families. Nationalally, representatives of various ethnic backgrounds of the former Soviet Union were deported from Ukraine, and Ukraine as an independent state must still consider and implement commitments, State commitments to these peoples. But let's also mention that after the Russians, the largest ethnic community in Ukraine is Crimean Tatars. As we consider this problem, we need to understand that we are trying to solve the problem of the entire nation. I think I'm surprised, frankly, by the position of scientific expertise, which says, in fact, it destroys all the normal positions of this law and sends it to work on something. Clearly, it is a work in progress. Processing is a funeral of the law. And when it's said that, I don't know whether it's the fifth or the sixth time, or maybe the seventh time it's the draft law that Mr. Mustafa is introducing in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's blocked. In fact, even in 2004, Kuchma was given a law that was passed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How do we feel that there are no defined parameters for people returning to Ukraine from those areas of Uzbekistan or Central Asia? One point I'd like to make to the rest of you. I realize that Communists will always protect crimes committed in the Soviet Union by their participation, under their direct guidance. And I get that. But I don't understand when there are MPs speaking Tatar language to Mr. Mustafa, and then at the end of the speech, they're blocking the actual acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u125	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u126	Deputies! When it comes to the budget, let's mention that every year we accept the State budget of Ukraine, and every year in that state budget it can be, depending on the budget, that amount or less of the amount for implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u127	Thank you. Volodymyr Yavorowski, BUT-Batychina faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues! More than 20 years have passed since the deportations by the national criminal steel regime began to return to the Fatherland. Regrettably, to date, the State has not been defined in a legislative way with the rights of deported persons. Not by these persons, but by their rights, not by their status, but by the State’s obligation to compensate for the damage suffered by deportation, is not yet defined. As a result of the lack of a legislative base, a large number of these people today live in terrible conditions: underbuilt homes, lack of light, gas, roads, and light, is a common picture for residents of the so-called settlement of the compact dwelling of Crimea Tatars. The worst in this situation was the Crimean Tatars. Because, in addition to all household problems, they are still gradually losing their native language and culture. In connection with the bill, I think it is extremely important, as it is taught, by fellow believers. The "BOUT"- "Paternity" faction will support it. I see a cheerful smile among our colleagues in the faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, you don't have to smile at someone else's misery. Let's support this bill together. Because it's designed to restore justice. It is aimed at supporting the international order and tranquillity of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u129	Peter Cibenko, a faction of Communists. Next is Jaroslav Kenzier, instead of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u130	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, the subject of this bill is, on the one hand, extremely resonant and, on the other hand, extremely sensitive and dangerous. I, like some other MPs, believe that the draft law on this issue should be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the arguments here are perfectly clear. Because this bill needs to be written with extreme caution and tolerance. Because the scope of this law is extremely sensitive. If this condition is not met, we can get an open box of Pandora when some part of Ukraine wants to think of itself as being deported. So once again, I stress that this bill is to be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And one more thing that I want to say is that I'm making this bill out of this problem. In view of what Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko was talking about, and he was telling the truth, whether someone likes it or not, it is also necessary to understand that deportation in a sense was a step forced. Let's at least think about it in 1945 and remember that frontiers, people who have conquered fascism, are returning from the front. And they realize that some part of the Crimean Tatar people, some individual representatives of the Crimean Tatar people, has caused a certain amount of distress. So what I'm saying is that deportation, deportation in those conditions was a better way out of the situation than what could have happened to some part of the Crimean Tatar people. And what they're trying to do here is mix up the Vistula operation, and what I'm trying to say is that it's a very different topic. Because in this case it was the decision of two governments – the Polish government and the Ukrainian government. Do we not understand what these steps were aimed at? And how could the decision of governments on the one hand and on the other not be taken? That's why I'm stressing once again that the decision, the draft law on this subject, is to be prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The percentage is balanced, careful, I stress once again not to open Pandora's box. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u131	Jaroslav Kenzior, faction of "Our Ukraine People's Self-Defense". Hennadi Moskal will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u132	Jaroslav Kenzior, MP for Ukraine! Dear Head, fellow MPs! And respectable gentlemen of Ukraine! Parliament seems to have become an independent state in Ukraine over the years. And you and I haven't had the kind of stress here today that we might feel today, discussing this important issue. Blood is cooled in your veins when you listen to the honesthearted, as it were, talk of those kats, the bandits who committed the crime! You know, when a person representing that party comes out and says that deportation was a forced action, so it's sort of a combination that the necessary measures for the bloody Soviet government were the Gladmores, it's millions of forced, as it were, destroyed, it's repression, millions of people, it's eviction of entire peoples. The eviction of Crimean Tatars is one of the most terrible crimes in the necklace of the criminalized communist authorities of that time. And today these are the genetic mutants of this power under the conditions of an independent Ukrainian state with microphones on all over Ukraine trying to justify this crime. You know, the only joy today in this discussion when we mention that this cat, the Hero of the Soviet Union, who carried out the deportation campaign, Dergachev Mikola, who in May 1944 carried out this deportation of the entire nation, in February 1945 in Carpathian, in Kosovo, the rebel leader of the rebel group Miroslav Simchich destroyed this bandit. [[The pseudo "Crowonys"]] It's the only, it's the only, so to speak, that's the only, that's the only, that's the only, that's the only, the only, the only, the only, the only, the only, that's the, the only, the only, the only, the only, the only, the only, But what worries me today is that in this law, as in many others, we know that Russia today is the successor of the Soviet Union. Gentlemen of Ukraine, honourable Ukrainian parliamentarians, distinguished Ukrainian authorities, why are we shyly afraid to make a decision here today, requiring the Kremlin to compensate, along with Ukraine, for setting up Crimean Tatars that are returning to their historic land? Why is this not done? Why are we afraid to put Moscow's account together?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u133	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u134	I.M. And for the famine, and for the stolen savings? Why were the Poles able to account for Katin? Finally, let us be conscientious Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Gennady Moskal, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u136	First of all, this law was passed by the Supreme Council before President Kuchma, but then it was consecrated and left on the shelves, so we need to establish historical justice. The other one. Ladies and gentlemen, those who spoke of the Crimean Tatars as traitors. Let's figure out how much there was in the Russian army of Vlasov. There are so many Crimean Tatars in nature around the world. Then who should be evicted, all Russia or all Ukraine, and so on? Let's not go into caves and get comparisons or anything like that. And, honourable communists, the Communist Party has a whole group of Crimean Tatars who have stayed and practiced a Communist idea. So you spit in their faces. Representatives of Crimean Tatars are also in the Party of Regions, they're in Fatherland, they're in other political powers. Why hang labels for the entire nation today? The Crimean Tatars have no other Fatherland than Ukraine. That is why this law needs to be upheld today. One who does not support is the one who sows international hostility in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u137	Thank you. About what? Just a minute. Velizinski, one minute, please. No, no, dear colleagues, look at the minutes, there's one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u139	Please, one minute. I beg of you, Your Honor, we're on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I only have one minute, I'm very short. Episode one. In Central Asia, a young man of small heights came to the military’s calling point. His turn comes, and he says, "I'm not going to serve in this army." They say, "How can you not defend your family?" This man dared to say, "You took my Motherland away from me, which is why I can't protect anyone." It was Mustafa Jemiliev who spent 15 years in prison. [[Applause]] Episode two. Amet Sultan, the legendary Crimean Tatar, a pilot who shot down countless German planes, twice Hero, by the way, the Soviet Union, was at home with his parents when they came to evict their parents. They were thrown away, and he couldn't, he could barely hold himself back so he wouldn't give them a heads-up. Later it was a colossal tester, a legendary absolute man in whose eyes it occurred. Who dared.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the line. The name was John the Baptist. Please, one minute. Jaroslav Suhiy called it his last name. Please. May I have your attention, please? Take it easy. Then the closing word will be given to the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u142	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. From this rostrum, my colleague truthfully said that 300 people had not returned from my village of deportation. But now there are almost no documents because the deportation took place before the war and the archives burned down. And only a monument with their names in our village reminds us of this. On June 13, 1941, 13,000 Romanians were deported from the Chernobyl area. Only 569 persons were deported from one village of Magala. Most didn't come back from Siberia, didn't come back from Bilomore Canal, didn't come back with a polar circle. But in every village in the Seret Valley there are 100, 200, 300 names that have not returned from Siberia. Justice should be for all. We should also mention that along with the Crimean Tatars, the Hungarian people were deported and the male population of Carpathians near the border. We should mention Bulgarians, Germans, Armenians, who were also completely deported from Crimea. We need to mention the Ukrainians who were deported as a result of the Vistula. And justice must be one for all. I'm going to vote myself, but if it doesn't, I'm asking my colleagues to vote in favour of getting back to work on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u143	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u144	Because declarations don't decide. There's no money there, and it's only gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u145	Thank you. Mustafa Jemiliev is the closing statement. Do you need a minute? Please. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Crimean Tatar people, other deported from their homeland, will certainly return to their homeland, regardless of the bark that comes from the heirs of the Stalinese regime. I just want to say that this bill was aimed at a legal settlement of the process of return and adaptation of the peoples in the Stalinese regime of their homeland in Ukraine. I would like to draw attention to this, distinguished people's deputies. In 2004, the law, as I said before, was voted on. Including the Communist Party! Including this "dinozaur" who was trying to accuse us of some kind of betrayal. [[Applause]] Where is the principle of these people? That's when they got that instruction, that's how it was supposed to be. These people don't have principles. I appeal to the people's deputies who are accountable to their constituents. And I am forced here, Reverend Vladimir Mihajlovich, to question the responsibility of the people in the Hall. The country's legislative body is fuelled by an inter-national divide. In no civilized country can you imagine such a thing! In no civilized country is such a person. They won't even take the roads to work! And we do. They're in such a high position. I thank all the people's deputies who have expressed their support for our legitimate demands. Of course, the Crimean Tatar people will draw their conclusions from today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I'd like to. I'm begging you. No, the discussion is over. No, no last name, everything! Dear colleagues, I would like all of you, please, to ask everyone: both the rapporteur and the speakers to continue their ethics in the hall. Emotions should not be taken up. Dear colleagues, to sum up the discussion, let me be clear: I have often given a throbbing thought that we don't have a Supreme Council. Today’s discussion of the matter has shown that we have the Supreme Council. And it happened. Dear colleagues, please! There was a conflict of thought, sometimes they went beyond discussion, beyond competence. But, at the same time, we have to go out with you to make a decision. And I support all the emotional statements that have been made here, except for the accusations. But we must forget that the Supreme Council acts as the prosecutor of the accused. We don't have to judge history, we have to draw conclusions. And I'd like, dear colleagues, not to go there, in knowledge of the great history. If you want, I can ask the question: Who set the example of deportation? I'll tell you who. During the meeting -- and I'll tell you, dear colleagues -- when the Big Three met Roosevelt, he told you how they decided with the Japanese: 150,000 were deported one night. But they admitted it and then apologized and took appropriate action. That is why we must understand with you, fellow honourable Members, that our mission, our responsibility, is to teach lessons and make appropriate decisions: political, legal, economic, to solve this problem. As for the conclusion of scientific expertise. Well, I'd like to take it less emotionally. It came from a legal position. But I would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to adopt this law as a basis, that is, in the first reading, then to work on it, including from an economic point of view. And this should be the law on deported persons by national sign. Because let us not forget the Ukrainians too, fellow Ukrainians and Ukrainians. That's why I'm putting the motion to vote: to adopt a draft law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis. Please vote. [[12:19:40]] For 177 By faction, please: Region Party 7, "BUT" – "Batakushina" – 97, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 47, communists – 0, People's Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, non-fractional – 4. So, your honor, I'm going to put it to a vote, but I'm going to put it to a vote. Dear colleagues, return the committee to work and set a deadline when it should be brought up for consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, not on Friday. Let's do this. Your Honor, let's not do anything in such a hurry. Then let's do it for the next plenary week. In order for the committee to further develop the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, we will also present economic justifications, just a week from now, we will return to this issue. I am voting on this proposal: a return to the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign (registration number). [[B in m in s a l in]] On the return to the committee of the draft Law on Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported by National Sign, to be finalized and brought to the consideration of the Supreme Council for the next plenary week. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u148	What? About getting back to work and taking it up. [[B in m in s a l in]] Take it off the vote. Microphone, please. What do you got? Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u149	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Vladimir Mihajlovich, in such cases, had himself to return the author to work. The Committee did not do so. Hall rejected the bill, you know? Hall refused, we did not vote for him. All right, he's dead by definition, by the book. He would like the author to develop and re-edit. But we didn't accept him, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u150	Thank you. I understand, my dear colleagues, there were two suggestions during the discussion. The first, and the committee's proposal, is to take it as a basis. The second proposal, which was presented in a series of presentations, including John Popescu, is emotional and correct. If not voted on, return the committee to prepare for the reopening of the first reading, taking into account the discussion that took place. Please! And taking into account the discussions that have taken place, and taking into account that the government has made appropriate economic calculations. I'm betting on this motion, please vote, for the next plenary week. [[12:22:35]] For 366 Decision taken. Thank you. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, we continue our morning meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's go to the chapter. No, we do have another project. A draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Ethnonational policy of Ukraine: gains and prospects" is under consideration. [[Registration number 10247]] Reported by the head of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities and International Relations, Gnatkevich Yuri Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues! A preliminary discussion of the deportation bill showed that the national issue in Ukraine and everywhere is acute. On 11 January 2012, four months ago, there were parliamentary hearings in this room on the theme "Ethnonational politics of Ukraine: gains and prospects". They aroused great social interest, and only ethnic communities were represented by more than 60 social organizations. During the hearings, a thorough analysis of the current state of implementation of ethnopolitics in Ukraine was made and suggestions made for its further formation. Ukrainian international relations are characterized by tolerance, which can be viewed as a major achievement of our nation’s ethnic policy. This was facilitated by the interaction of state authorities with the public, with national and cultural associations, and by the established legislative framework, such as the National Minorities Act, adopted back in 1991. However, they are often not guaranteed by effective mechanisms to implement the laws of the law and the freedom of national minorities. In short, there is a problem with money. At a committee meeting, when such matters are discussed, representatives of the Ministry of Finance say that there is no money. Nor is there a comprehensive conceptual vision of the basic principles of national ethnonational policy to date in Ukraine. Many speakers said that the national issue was still pending. And you and I are witnessing a time when there is a political struggle around the issue of the drinking weight of all Ukrainian, actually Ukrainian, national in the Ukrainian national state. We argue that we are building a Ukrainian national state with respect for the rights of national minorities, or we are building something else. The committee analyzed and generalized all the proposals that came from those who spoke and other proposals and prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on recommendations for parliamentary hearings that were given to you. The committee took a thorough look at his work. The project was based on proposals made by both government and leading scientific institutions. Such as the Institute of Ethnic Studies of the name John Kuras, the Institute of State and the right of name of the Korean Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, public organizations. And I would like to stress that the project was set up, because it was not easy to put it together, we agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education and Science, other ministries -- social policy, foreign affairs, the State Committee of Television and Broadcasting, and the Central Election Commission, because there is one proposal for it. By its decision, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council a draft decision to be taken as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u153	Thank you. If you want to talk, please sign up. So it was written in us by factions and groups. If you're interested in the MPs, please. Yes, please, Moses, the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense." Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u154	Vladimir Moses, Party for Ukraine! Please pass the word to John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u155	Please, John the Rabbit. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u156	Dear National Deputies! I read a draft of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations from ethnopolitics in Ukraine very briefly. I'm not just disappointed, I'm angry. I'm sorry I have to, but the recommendation project doesn't reflect the course of hearing and the content of most of the speeches. It seems that the authors of the draft Recommendations were either not in the Hall at the time or deliberately distorted, distorted the spirit of the discussion. So it turns out that the discussion was one thing, and the recommendations are the exact opposite. I would like to remind you that most of the participants in the hearings expressed themselves for the integration model of ethnopolitics in Ukraine. The integration model is based on the unity of society based on language and tradition, customs, the culture of the title nation while guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. May I remind you that Ukraine is the main nation in the Ukrainian state! So, about Ukrainians, about guaranteeing their rights, about the systemic role of Ukrainian nation-building, about the need to develop Ukrainian culture, about Ukrainian as a national language, you won't find anything in these Recommendations. Is everything so good today with the rights and needs of the Ukrainian nation? You are well aware that Ukrainian as the only national language today will be expelled from all walks of life. Our so - called authority is particularly abused. You look at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. On the first occasion, they use a different language rather than a national language. Why? To build, not Ukraine, but Ukraine's national state, but to transform our nation into a simple territory. Turn citizens into citizens and rob these people and rob them! We know that infrastructure is being destroyed today by duplication of foreign films in Ukrainian. We know that today, various tobacco users, chariots, and others copy, distort Ukrainian history! They're actually bullying the title nation today, and you're not going to see anything in these recommendations today, how we're going to ensure the spiritual rebirth of Ukrainians, how we're going to adopt Ukrainian as the only national language. In fact, the authors of the draft recommendations offer us a segregation model of ethnopolitics, that is, the division of society, the cultural sphere of taps into closed isolated spaces. If the integration model emerges from the separation of national and cultural rights of different communities, from the general cultural space, then the segregation model focuses on the opposite of national minorities' rights to the title nation. These are unacceptable things in a democratic society, these are unacceptable things in the 21st century. You can't speculate on rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u157	Yes, there's the Rabbit still registered with the deputies, three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u158	You can't speculate on the rights of national minorities, their needs. It is not possible to artificially contrast the rights of individuals of individual citizens and national minorities with the rights and needs of the title nation, such a model, such as those of a segregation model. That's what we actually see in the recommendations today. It is only a matter of national minorities and is virtually nothing about the Ukrainian nation. Finally, we need to understand that the ethno-cultural comfort of all citizens in the country will depend on the ethno-cultural comfort of Ukrainians and should not be abused. I am impressed by the political blindness of our deputies, those who gave good advice on this project. They cannot help but see the enormous efforts of European governments to ensure the ethnocultural integration of their societies. There are many, many European countries, even the ministries of integration. It cannot be overlooked that the policy of multiculturalism in European countries has turned itself into a segregated side, a segregation expression. And it scared the community, and we see the leaders of the leading European states condemning this policy, declaring the collapse of this policy, and making great efforts to integrate societies, so that today the ethnic and cultural factor does not disunite people, so that it is today that diversity and that basis for uniting societies. We pretend that we don't have Ukrainians, we pretend that we don't have the Constitution, we don't have the national type of Ukrainian state, that the Ukrainian state was formed in the river of the political tradition of Europe itself, as a nation-like state, where custom, tradition, the culture of the title nation itself is the foundation for social unity in guaranteeing the rights of national minorities. So I think we should finally understand that these things don't play, they don't play. And finally, you have to understand that Ukrainians can't just observe how their rights are being ignored, how their history is being ignored, how all their identity signs are being destroyed. That's why I'm against such a draft recommendation. I think it has to be redesigned, and we have an integration model in this project, not a segregation model, a model for the division of Ukrainian society. It is enough to play an ethnic factor today, after all, to realize that the perspective of Ukraine, the perspective of the citizens of Ukraine in unity, and that unity is possible when the rights of the title nation are guaranteed. So I would still like to return this draft of recommendations for further development and introduce an integration model, not a model.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u159	Andrew School, BUT faction. Get ready for Platoon. Please, the school microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u160	I'm asking you to give the floor to Vice Speaker Mikola Tomenko, if possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u161	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour to conduct parliamentary hearings on this issue, and I want to say that I fully subscribe to what the previous reporter has said, but I believe that the subject of the parliamentary hearings and the subject of the parliamentary document, which is called "the decree," is the national minority, the ethnic minority. And if we interpret the Ukrainian nation as a national minority, that's how the authorities interpret it today. Let's focus on the development of the Ukrainian nation and the Ukrainian people. I think the committee acted properly because he wrote down what we should do for the national minorities. Because if we put here in one document, how we're going to promote Ukrainian language, culture, Ukrainian traditions and Ukrainians, then it looks like we're going to drop us off to a legitimate national minority. In my form, I do not agree that the subject of this decision should be the cultural, educational problems of the Ukrainians. The Ukrainian authorities should daily warn of the rights of Ukrainians as the nation that formed the Ukrainian State. Sadly, this has been the case in some areas where Ukrainians have already been interpreted as a national minority. I recently returned from the Odessa region, and there I felt a deep national minority, because there is already the only center of Ukrainian culture that is, and he wants to evict. It remains there for you to understand that in the Odessa region the Constitution and the laws do not work, it is written on all the boards that the area is governed by a certain governor. I realize it's the Russians who are assigning this person because in our legislation, the President is assigning the heads of the district administrations, and there's an all-out advertisement called the governor of Odessa. So there's Russian employees, journalists at the rally say we're crazy people, and Ukrainians, and Jews living in Odessa. And no one responds to the performance of such a man, who arrived on May 9, spit on everyone there in the Odessa region, and there is no reaction, no official, that Leontyev had to be expelled and allowed into the territory of Ukraine. So I'm saying once again that I fully share the meaning of what the previous speaker said, but I think that in part the regulation of the problem of national minorities should be. I support the position that, as a country that has always been proud of normal, civilized, tolerant relations in the international sphere, we should not forget the practice that took place before. I support the committee's position that we should also re-establish the board of heads of public organizations of national minorities, and we also need to re-create the central executive authority on matters of religion and national minorities. She understood the management system that worked, good or bad. That's why I would say it that way. By dividing this concern about the state of affairs of the Ukrainian language, history, culture, I believe that the Supreme Council should adopt a regulation because it regulates the serious problems that the heads of the national public organizations that were present at the parliamentary hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u163	Ensign Alexei, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u164	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to pass it on to my colleague John Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u165	Please, Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u166	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! From the very beginning, I wanted to draw your attention to this. That the Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine, states that the Ukrainian people are citizens of all nationalities. This resulted in the authors of the draft decree. The recommendations suggest, among other things, that local authorities should not allow the artificial reduction of the network of preschool and general educational institutions in the languages of national minorities; take steps to strengthen their material and technical base; promote the activities of national and cultural societies, particularly through targeted allocations from the local budget; and include the costs of mecenities, charitable and other organizations for this purpose. And to ensure that the cultural acquisition of national minorities, including their burial sites, is preserved. Moreover, the adoption of this decree will speed up the adoption of the concept of ethnic politics in Ukraine. Ukraine has been a state for 20 years, but it does not yet have that concept. Now we haven't solved this problem yet, and we have to pay attention to it, because if we don't solve it, we're always going to have a struggle, especially during election campaigns. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the implementation of these recommendations will also contribute to the implementation of our European obligations, namely: the Framework Convention for the Protection of the Rights of National Minorities, the European Charter for Regional Languages or Minorities, Recommendation 1201, which guarantees the rights of all nationalities. In addition, we need to create conditions so that in case of danger to our nation, all nationalities will be able to protect it because everyone would then feel that they have something to lose. But when can this be achieved? This can be achieved when a European principle is introduced in Ukraine: "Live alone, but give life to others." The European principle is called "unity in diversity". That is why we are here today to vote in favour of this decree because we in Ukraine are building a state according to the principle that Ukraine should be a home for all its citizens. And it's the draft of this regulation that provides for this approach. A party of regions will speak for and vote for the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, one minute for a fraction that's not logged in. Zarubinsky. And then there's Stishenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, I took the floor because there were some such dispositions, or demands, dissatisfactions on the part of very distinguished deputies, including John Alexanderovich. He said the word "sufficient" a few times. I agree: enough talk, enough cultural descriptions, when it comes to legislation, enough. 20 years of one opus, 20 years of one-and-a-half-hour lectures with the same language, and with zero results! If the Committee and the Supreme Council have held powerful - and Tomenko can confirm this - parliamentary hearings, if the results of parliamentary hearings are taken to be very specific, not watery, or watery, recommendations regarding the creation of a central authority of state, regarding the creation of a public organization for each direction in the field of ethnopolitical matters, should this be trampled?Oh, my God! Well, go read another lecture, write your dissertations about what you're saying all the time. But it's a legislative act, and it's done well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u169	Alexander Steshenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u170	Please give the word Yuri Vasilovich Gnatkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u171	Please, Yuri Gnatkevitch. Get ready for Shevchuk Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I, without being sure that I would get the closing word, agreed to take the floor now to pay attention to such circumstances. I agree with John Zaze and agree with Tomenko, and I agree with Zarubinsky. What's the matter? It is true that the parliamentary hearings were held sharply and perhaps the most acute was the question of, well, speaking about the rights of Ukrainians, not only the rights of national minorities. It has been said that areas, territories, and areas of Ukraine have become a national minority of the lawless. It has been said that the Russian community has real greater cultural rights in Ukraine than have Ukrainians and national minorities. They also said that some people want to build, not a Ukrainian national state, but really want to build another Russian state, and that's what they're talking about, but that's not the point. There was also talk of being really tolerant in the national sense of the state, about what might have to be said about the rights of Ukrainians, but that should be said separately. But now in parliamentary hearings, and I support Tomenko, and my colleague Zarubinsky, and my boss, is that we need to do this today, because today we can reject the rights of national minorities, and they have all the rights in common. It is necessary to provide them with a separate central body, both at the level of public organizations, for them to be united in something, and for the President to form such an organ, for it is essentially eliminated today. I think we need to talk about how to really secure financial, material rights, because we don't have the political rights of national minorities. And we're narrowing down these rights, we don't have any money. How can we find mechanisms for getting that money and providing money to these national minorities so that they can realize their rights? Look at the project itself, it's about many and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the President, and us, the Supreme Council. Colleagues, I took part in the adoption of the first Law on National Minorities in 1990. Then the laws were accepted as works of art, as songs, and we had no experience. It needs to be improved, it needs to be recreated, and we are bound by this decision, and we will certainly do so. This is true of the laws that we talked about today, that are referred to here and others. So I, colleagues, ask you as the head of the subcommittee that worked on this, there is a question, but the national issues are acute. Let's not make them worse. Let us take this determination, which is today, and thus take a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u173	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u174	Please give the floor to Andrew School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u175	Please, School.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u176	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. Honorable Chairman, Honorable Supreme Council! I realize that in any case, when we start discussing issues of national minorities in Ukraine, we're going back, and I'm completely in solidarity with those who said that before the Ukrainians became a national minority in many regions of Ukraine. We can remember the closing of Ukrainian schools in Donetsk, Lugansk region, we can remember what a bill is currently being prepared for high school, where teachers will voluntarily choose, by consulting students, to see what language to teach. I think most people will choose, of course, in what language. Yeah? Is it a family? It's a different matter. We don't even have the right to think about how we can limit the rights of national minorities or, by the way, talk about not having national schools in places of compact residence. This apiori is accepted, and I'm both in favour. The simple question is, very often, so often, that graduates of national schools know two languages: they know their native language and the national language of Russian. Not knowing what such a Ukrainian language is. Yes, there is such a story, we know it, and there are very often certain problems that are being built on that that are being used by our peers, who are very often in a controlled party today, in order to fuel international hostility, especially before the elections. I am confident that these fires should be put out and that Ukraine is a tolerant country, Ukraine is a tolerant nation. You just can't ride this tolerance by sitting in the Ukrainian's neck. You cannot turn a Ukrainian into a minority in Odessa who has no right to receive a document in English. The Ukrainians cannot be turned into a minority who is not entitled to a Ukrainian car to receive an instruction, has no right on Ukrainian national television to listen to Ukrainian television because they are shrinking in volume, no right, and the Ukrainian has not recently had the right to go to movies and listen to films in their own language duplicated. And right after the incursion of the duplicate studio that was doing, providing for the Ukrainians, and my right to go to the movies, it was ruined, and it's still not fully restored. So before you vote in favour of this bill, think about supporting the Ukrainian minority in the areas where you come from. To avoid turning Ukrainians into a minority in Donbassa and Lugansk, to finally, when you are very often called here for bilinguality in Ukraine, you have to learn Ukrainian first and then put it in bilingual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u177	Yes, please, the Prince is passing it on to Dzemilev. Please. Get ready for Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u178	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! We should not remind ourselves that the Supreme Council is not only a higher legislative body, but also an important social institution whose reasoned position forms the country’s policy not only through the adoption of laws. One of the parliamentary instruments for shaping social policy is parliamentary hearings, which I think are the tasks of involving a wide range of authorised representatives of the social institutions and experts themselves, to try to form new models and ideas that will in one way or another allow our country to do better. In January of this year, all representatives of many national, national and cultural associations, MPs, ethno-political professionals, gathered to discuss Ukraine's further development as a multi-national and polyculture society, taking stock of previous years. To be honest, I was hoping for a lively discussion with constructive proposals, sober estimates and real forecasts of the development of the Ukrainian society of ethnonational politics. That's what happened. The greater number of suggestions and comments that have been made by the participants in the parliamentary hearings has been the basis for your consideration of a document that has made recommendations that will affect all of us, without exception or without implementation by the institutions listed there. in religious and other ways. Members of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations have not been indifferent to the opinion of the public authority, wondering their views on the issue of the past and the future ethnic life of the country. Members of the committee received and were able in most cases to take into account the views expressed by the executive branch. Parliamentary hearing recommendations are a kind of summary of the long-term work of many people and organizations that not only care about these issues, but which are vital to them in terms of conservation and development of national cultures, languages and traditions. Finally, the adoption of this document also generalizes the perception of the situation of the ethnic policy of the state, placing corner stones under the wall of the future concept of Ukrainian national ethnic policy, which is discussed from a small national cultural society in western Ukraine, and ending with the President of Ukraine. which gives appropriate decrees and orders from this point of view. I think that you, honourable national MPs, are aware of the latitude of the issue that is being considered now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u179	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u180	You see how much of the task that comes before society and is quite ready to vote in favour of these recommendations is to take an active part in their further implementation each at its own level. Please vote in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u181	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u182	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Of course, this decision, which is currently under discussion, should unite the hall rather than disunite as it is now. That's why I wanted to bring you back to the decision, to the subject that we're discussing, which is what we have to express here the gains and prospects. Are there gains if article 11 of the Constitution - that the State promotes the consolidation and development of the Ukrainian nation, and the historical consciousness, traditions, cultures, and the development of the ethnic, cultural, linguistic and religious identity of all the indigenous peoples and national minorities of Ukraine - not realized? It's not happening. So that's obviously what we have to say. Well, God be with him, they didn't. I would like to make a point to a specific decision. And I would ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to exclude and vote in favour of these paragraphs in order to exclude them. For example, we recommend to the President of Ukraine, think about creating a central executive body for the formation and implementation of national ethnonational policies. I mean, another ministry actually created. It is not the obligation of all the organs of the State to shape and implement this policy! All organs, I emphasize, must form! Obviously, then, there can be no place in this country for a prime minister who does not know the language of the State! Obviously there is no place in this country for a defence minister who cannot speak the same language! It's something else that reminds me of something else. It is obvious that asking the question that only the Supreme Council should provide for increased responsibility for actions aimed at fuelling national, racial, or religious enmity would not be entirely right. Because today the speakers spoke of the humiliation of the rights of the Ukrainian nation in this area. Then by whom to write, "and the non-delegation of the humiliation of the Ukrainian nation," as Mr. Tomenko said, which took place in Odessa, which took place daily in the Odessa region. It's where all the boards are written that there's a governor in the area. I have repeatedly emphasized this in my clothing, in my clothing television, but I have not been heard. Now, thank God, Vice Speaker saw that we have governors and we have something like that. Now for the orders of the Supreme Council. Here is the question of speeding up the consideration of draft laws on the restoration of the rights of persons deported by national brand. And now you've heard that Mustafa Jemilev, to his honor, was speaking from the rostrum of the Supreme Council in Ukrainian. In Israel two thirds speak Russian, but in the Knesset they speak the national language. Learn.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u183	Yes, have a seat, please. Volini’s best representative believes that his honor has been affected. A rabbit, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u184	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. The chairman of the committee accused me of reading the lectures. Yeah, well, if you look at the name of parliamentary hearings, it sounds like "Ethnonational politics of Ukraine: gains and prospects." What does that mean? This means that the rights and interests, needs, and Ukrainians must be considered in such a context. And if these Ukrainians are not in this decision, what does this indicate? This indicates a conscious departure from the integration model. Because we're interested in creating a political nation like we do in Europe, based on Ukrainian cultural traditions and customs, based on the traditions and customs of the ethnic culture. Well, you can't reject Ukrainian problems today, you can't help but see how Ukrainian language is being destroyed, you can't help but see how Ukrainian media are being destroyed today, and culture, schools are closing down today. So let's consciously stop all these contradictions, stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u185	Question completed. I'm voting on Parliamentary Recommendations, more loyally, because there were observations here, based on the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Ethnonational Policy of Ukraine: Gains and Prospects". [[Registration number 10247]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:30:25]] For 322 Copy that. Dear colleagues, there were comments and suggestions. Carmazin suggested that the proposal be withdrawn: To the President of Ukraine, consider the creation of a central executive body for the formation and implementation of national ethnonational policies. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u186	Honourable Yuri Anatoliyovich, indeed, made such an offer, but all those who attended the parliamentary hearings, by the way, most of those who spoke, were not at the parliamentary hearings, only those who were at the parliamentary hearings had heard that representatives were practically, not practical, but all the public organizations of all the associations that spoke at those hearings, insisting on an even more harsh form not to consider the President’s proposal, but that there should be a central body in Ukraine to take care of the issue. Moreover, in fact, there was no contradiction between all the authorities and institutions that the committee had asked for an expert evaluation of the existing text of these proposals. We're not imposing this on the President, realizing that this is the President's mandate. But these are recommendations, and when we formulate proposals for the creation of this central executive body, there is no violation. Yuri Anatolyovich, this is not contradicted by the fact that everyone has to deal with this issue, but someone has to coordinate, it has to be, in fact, the central organ that.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! Carmazine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u188	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with what the Head of the Zarubinski Committee has just said, with all the authorities of the State to form and implement the ethnonational policy of Ukraine as envisaged in the Constitution of Ukraine and in the 10, 11 and 12 articles. But if the committee thinks and now thinks that we need a special department, a special ministry to focus on these issues, including the issues that we've just talked about, then obviously, let's keep this point. I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, not to put this paragraph to the vote, but to remember that Law 5515 has failed, so the rights of persons should be restored to the deported, 5515 should be removed, and the restoration, if necessary, should be left here in the text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u189	Yeah, let's not put it to a vote. Rabbit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u190	Ivan Hare, Ukrainian People's Party. It seems to me that there is an opportunity to reconcile these two approaches today and to follow the example of European countries. For example, there is a Ministry of Integration in Spain. There is already a clear goal in the very name that this ministry is acting in the direction of consolidating the efforts of the national minorities there, the national nation. They work toward uniting all citizens into a single nation. Because if we're just talking about an ethnopolitical organ, that means we can use it and we can use it as a plus or a minus. This organ can be fueled by international hostility, or it can be extinguished. I mean, you always have to see the target, you have to see the target, and you have to see it that way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u191	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've taken the matter down. Why talk about him? I repeat, there was Karmazin's offer, after Zarubinsky's argument he withdrew his offer. Yes, please, Chechetov. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u192	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Well, as a result of the discussion, we did not understand that there were two points of view among the opposition. Some said we needed a title nation, others said we didn't need one. A representative of the Odessa church, a well-known lawyer here, said there was a nation of his own in Odessa. Because in order to figure out where the title nation is and whether we really need the title nation in order for us to have unity in the country, I think we need to go to work. We have taken the basis, and may further take into account the proposals of both Ivan Rabbit and Nikolai Tomenka and others who have spoken, let the Committee finalize and submit a final draft regulation to the session. Now we have voted for the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u193	Dear colleagues! Thus, the decision on the basis of 322 votes has been taken. There is a denial of acceptance in general. Please prepare for the second reading. Let's go to the chapter. That is, those who want to make proposals and make statements have absolute grounds, since this is referred to the second reading of the so-called draft decision to make proposals in accordance with the rules of procedure. Let's move on to "Inclusion in the agenda of the day session." We're discussing the inclusion of the Amnesty Act in the agenda of the day session in 2012. [[Registration number 10174]] Reports Arseny Yatzenuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u194	Honorable Members of Parliament! For your consideration, the Amnesty Act of Ukraine is proposed in 2012. The law allows for the release of some 13,000 persons convicted of minor crimes, about 13,000 persons who fall under different categories, starting with those who have underage children, oncaughts, disabled persons, under-security persons, those who have a number of underage children, those who have to support old parents and those who have not committed socially dangerous crimes that are punishable by deprivation of liberty for both eternity and more than 10 years. This law provides an opportunity not only to relieve 13,000 people of responsibility but also to free Ukraine from the political and future economic isolation that is affecting our state. The law, in addition to 13,000 persons, also relieves those who are politically persecuted by the authorities. This is about the liberation of Timoshenko and Lucenko. This is a law that covers 13,000 people who are condemned by today’s courts, including violations of current legislation. I'm going to say statistics: today, for 1,000 convictions in Ukraine, there are only two justifiable ones. Thus, this law liberates those who have committed minor crimes, and this law liberates those who have young children who are pregnant and who have older parents in custody, and this law liberates political prisoners in the country. I ask you to pass this law. And the vote of the Party of Regions will be the answer to whether the Party of Regions has changed its attitude towards the country, whether the Party of Regions has changed its attitude towards the calls of the West and our partners from Russia. If you want the country not to be isolated, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u195	Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Prokopchuk. Behind him is Karmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, the relevance of the bill is that today, not those who are supposed to sit down for serious crimes, for petty crimes, for other crimes, but those who need the government first. And if we look in the context of the footage that we've seen taken from Journalist Uss when we're overcrowded in the S.I.A., when we have dangerous diseases like tuberculosis and other diseases, when today there's simply no medical aid when we don't have enough money and resources to keep prisoners, that's why this law really has to be voted on. It will be good will on the one hand, and on the other hand it will be possible to correct matters that are now in correctional facilities, including temporary detention facilities. So please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u197	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u198	Yuri Carmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders. Ladies and gentlemen, please consider what is happening in the country. Few political prisoners have appeared in the country today, little has happened in Ukraine that all news is about it, so it is also revealed, in order to publish information about torture or beating, as it happened in respect of Timoshenko, in violation of a criminal case as it is being violated today against the Human Rights Commissioner Nina Carpachova. Think, please, about what is happening in the country! On Sunday, I get a message from S.E.S.A. 13 saying that a man with a broken spine has been beaten by a police force, that's how a person reports it. Again, why don't you even ask me a question? Historically, 13 amnesty laws were passed in Ukraine, half of them initiated by the Ukrainian National Deputies, and this half of them is no different from the one proposed by Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, with only one exception, he spoke of political prisoners — once and again, he proposed amendments to articles 44, 88 of the Criminal Code, and to article 6 of the Prime Act. The Criminal Procedure Code and the Amnesty Act in Ukraine, by and large, there are no changes. There has been a paradox in Ukraine where there are people who are completely ill, who need to be released if the sentence comes into force because there are appropriate orders and the Ministry of Health, since 2000 and the State Department for Execution of Punishment, also since 2000. But they're not getting fired. The young man suggests that they be released as well. I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u199	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u200	I think this should be a show vote. A vote that will help our President, or President of that part of Yanukovic, today, to give his hand abroad. In fact, Jacinyuk today suggests that Yanukovich be rescued, including. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u201	Question completed. I'll bet. Short-term procedure, unfortunately. I am voting on the proposal to include the amnesty bill in the agenda of the 2012 Amnesty Act. [[Registration number 10174]] I'd like to make a statement. [[13:43:30.]] For-142 Not turned on. The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 0, BUT – 97, Our Ukraine – 40, the Communists, the People's Party – did not vote, the Reforms – 2, the non-fractional – 3. We are discussing the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act on Amendments to Article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing criminal responsibility for desecrating or destroying monuments built in memory of those who fought Nazism during the years of World War II — Soviet Liberation Soldiers, Participants, Scavengers, Victims of Nazi Persecution, Internationalist Soldiers and Peacekeepers]] Registration number 10077. Please, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u202	The honourable colleagues, who were offered your opinion on the draft decree, the draft law, all accounted for what was being discussed during the consideration of this draft law earlier. Ukraine's draft law is designed to protect historical memory and justice, as well as the respect of the entire Ukrainian people for the glory of the warlord, the noble defenders of our country, the victims of Nazi persecution, as well as the internationalist and peacemakers. So all of this is taken into account, which was the subject of discussion. The adoption of this bill is, in my opinion, also a result of the spread of the facts of the desecration and destruction of military shrines. During the last time, as you know, in Lviv, in the city of Lviv, there was room for desecration of the monument of Slava and the monument to the liberator soldiers in the city of Czervonograd. Such facts are rightly viewed by citizens as the abuse of the heroic past of our people and the sacred memory of those who have saved the world from a brown plague and fascism at the cost of their lives. You and I have witnessed that already, let's say, during the celebration of May 9th this year in Uman we have torn apart the tomb of the Hero of the Great Homeland War, which was buried over 17 years ago, with only one purpose to take from there, let's say, the Orders of Glory. The shrine is surrounded by the flag of Victory, and this was precisely the result of what politics is occupied in the western areas of Ukraine called the deputies of district and city councils. I would like to draw your attention, dear friends, to the fact that the General Assembly of the United Nations, as early as December 21, 2010, expressed its concern about attempts to stop the distortion or destruction of monuments, the memory of those who fought against Nazism during the years of World War II and the efforts to carry out the illegal exhumation or burial of such persons. That is, we Communists are calling for this bill to be adopted today and thus for protection today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u203	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u204	To protect today and history, to protect the liberators, to protect the victorious people and those who, in the Great War of Homeland, were the famous son of the Ukrainian people and protected our people from the fascist invasion and abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u205	Yes, please sign up for the speech. Please, Zybenko. Get ready for Kosovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u206	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Fellow citizens of Ukraine, I, a faction of Communists, am the head of the Ukrainian Veterans' Council. I am absolutely convinced that the draft law should be adopted. He just becomes more responsible for the abuse of the grave, the place of burial, the body, the remains, the dust. It is bitter to say that in the 21st century we are forced to return to this problem. More to the point, if we are worthy of the sons of our parents, the grandchildren of our parents, we are, in a good sense, doomed to accept this document. Moreover, the General Assembly of the United Nations draws our attention to what is happening today, the tired number of Ukrainian parliamentarians. And to those addresses of church, not even medieval, but much sharper, as Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko called, reporting on the draft law. I want to add two more addresses, such as Drogobich, where such a monument and the city of Turku have been destroyed. So what I'm saying is, honourable colleagues, that really, until a decision is made on increasing responsibility, including criminal responsibility for such things. So we're not going to be able to put order into this. That's why, dear fellows, I'm stressing it again. That we all need, especially today, to meet from the 70th anniversary of Victory in the Great Homeland War, we must make this decision. What's more, we need to go back to the draft law, and I hope that the faction will soon return to it, to the draft Military Glory City Act, in order to repay our parents once again for their great victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u207	Thank you. Mikhailo Kosov.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u208	Thank you. Mikhailo Kosov, Timoshenko Yulia Block, Reform and Order Party. Dear colleagues, to me, the very question that I should guard is to honor one another’s monuments or graves, and to others it turns out that ignoring them is simply not an unacceptable, immoral thing. Everyone, yes, and provocative. But all the graves and monuments of the victims must be preserved in the same way. That's the first one. Now the second one. Well, you know what. Why is that selective? You say that the monuments were desecrated to the participants, as you say, of the Great Homeland War in Lviv. But I am a Levian myself, but there was no such thing! And no one defiled the flags of war. The other thing is, if you're exhibiting, let's say, the flags of a non-existent state -- the Union of the RSR, well, of course there's no such state. And going to parades now, rallies, demonstrations under these flags, that, again, is unacceptable. I believe that, of course, we can give specific examples when in some cities, for example, a recently defiled monument to Taras Shevchenk was recently defiled. Is that okay?Oh, my God! When, for example, Kharkiv, once again, was desecrated and destroyed, the destroyed monument to the fighters of the national-liberal struggle for Ukraine's independence is also abnormal! And it's been 12 years to establish criminal responsibility, this is a nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u209	The question is closed. I'm betting on a motion to vote, to include in the agenda of the day a bill amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on increasing criminal responsibility for the desecration or destruction of monuments built in memory of those who fought Nazism during the years of World War II - Soviet Liberation Soldiers, Participants of the guerrilla movement, underworlders, victims of Nazi persecution, as well as internationalists and peacekeepers]] [[Registration number of bill 10077]] The author of the bill is Simonenko Peter. Please vote. [[13:52:29]] For-32 The factions, please. The Party of Regions is 5, the Butt Party, our Ukraine has not voted, the Communists have not voted 25, the People's Party, the Reforms have not voted, the non-fractional two. We are considering the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the increase of criminal responsibility for the abuse of burial sites of members of the national-liberal struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine, victims of the repression of the totalitarian communist regime and genocide]] [[Bill number 10249]] Cirilenko Viacheslav reports. And I'm continuing the session to address this issue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u210	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Party "For Ukraine!" Dear voters, dear colleagues, I am introducing a bill amending article 297 of the Criminal Code. [[on strengthening criminal responsibility for the abuse of burial sites of members of the national-liberal struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine]] Why am I doing this? Because in recent times, especially in the last two years, acts of abuse and vandalism have become commonplace over the tombs of fighters for Ukraine’s independence, victims of the Holocaust, and so forth. Of course, there is a need to increase responsibility. I'm not loud, here's just some sample facts over the last two years. In February 2010, vandals burned the memory of UN members buried in Baba’s Yar, by the way, by the time they were ten. April 2010 — The Vandals broke a memorial sign in honor of the UPA soldiers. September 2010 is unknown, for the police, as always, did not enter, destroyed the Memorial to the victims of the famines in the Lochvika region of Poltava. February 2011 — A monument to freedom fighters in Krivi Rig. And this year, it's literally the latest facts. On April 8, 2012, and then April 20, the memory board in downtown Lutka, opened in honor of UPA soldiers, was broken down. So these crimes of a criminal nature must be stopped. That is why I ask, since all those who have fought for freedom in the country must be protected by the State, to make appropriate changes to article 297 of the Criminal Code. And where it is said to abuse the brother's grave and the grave of an unknown soldier for whom to add: "places of burial of a participant in the national liberation struggle for freedom and independence of Ukraine, victims of the repression of the totalitarian communist regime, victims of genocide 32-33 years of age." Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u211	Let's sign up for the performance. The committee didn't consider it. Please, School, follow him, Wolintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u212	I think we need to support this bill. Our political power will support the proposal to ensure the equality of approaches to the eternity of memory. The memory of all the fighters who were responsible for independence and freedom of their own state, the State of Ukraine, should be perpetuated, following an example from the leading nations, who had also undergone the pitfalls of war and had long forgotten what international competition was, for which more blood had been shed. We all shed blood for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u213	Wolverine Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u214	Eugeny Wolynec, Schachtersk city, Donetsk region. I was just surprised by the previous vote that such a normal bill on increasing criminal responsibility for the abuse of the burial of liberators had failed the Red Army. The thing is, I was just in the same Belarus, in Russia, and the same Moldova, too, there, first of all, no one would have thought of breaking up these funerals, and even if someone had decided to do so, there is a serious, serious, administrative and criminal punishment. Unfortunately, we're doing this fairly liberally in this regard. With regard to the bill on the burial of so-called independence fighters and the so-called hunger of 1932-1933, I will say more. In due time, with the help of the orange authorities, they were running these crosses of Godomor anywhere. We have even human settlements that appeared at the mine site in 1957, that is, there was a bare field before that, we had sushis, hamsters, and that's where they put this cross from the famine of 1932-1933. And they even found two people who were supposed to live there and died in that field. That is to say, it is necessary to approach this issue more carefully and the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u215	Yuri Carmazin. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u216	Thank you. I want to thank Yuri Anatoliovich Karmazin for the opportunity to speak out on this very important issue. Thank God, I have known Carmazin for 15 years, and he is always an objective lawyer. When the Radical Party comes to power, Karmazin will be the Attorney General. And all those who imprisoned Timoshenko, Lucenko, and thousands of other innocent people today, Carmazin will put them in prison and release the political prisoners. Yes, Yuri Anatolyovich, isn't it? Yes. Now here's a bill that's being considered. I know there's going to be one half of the hall yelling at me and resenting me right now, but I'll say it. I voted in favour of the previous bill of authorship of Communists, although I am the author of the draft law banning the Company. But I just voted in favour of the bill of responsibility for the abuse of graves. And I will vote in favour of the bill of colleague Kirilenka because it doesn't matter who's buried in that grave, the soldiers of the Soviet Army or the soldiers of the Ukrainian rebel army. They all fought for Ukraine to be independent. And to make a policy on the graves, to make a policy on the bones of those people, millions of Ukrainians, it doesn't matter what armies they were in, it's the people who gave their lives to make Ukraine free, independent. And quite right, those are the vandals that destroy the graves, whether they're the graves under the red stars, or whether they're the graves under the tridents. They are vandals because they no longer have a mind or a conscience. Because some of us had our grandfathers in the rebel army, and my grandfather was in the Red Army, and he was up in the tank. And today's authorities are giving the word, like in Pritika on May 9, I wasn't allowed to greet the veterans, and the grandson of Rudzkowski was given the opportunity to greet the veterans. Do you understand or not? Therefore, there is no need for politics on the bones of the dead Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u217	It's a little bit of a fix. Future Attorney General Karmazin won't go to jail because the courts are putting him in jail. Asshole, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u218	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! In fact, our MP group has decided not to support the first bill or the second bill. Why? Well, actually, I think that the first bill, that the second one is actually. His goal is once again to split Ukraine. And such manipulations and provocations really don't look like the Supreme Council. If we make an objective assessment, we all realize that the Criminal Code provides criminal responsibility for these things. And why do we have to destroy society again today on the eve of elections and break our state again. Let us think more about how to help those living veterans of the Great Homeland War who shed their blood. Let's think about how to help those people who. UPA soldiers. Let us consider how we can help search parties that are now being drawn from the land by thousands of fallen soldiers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u219	Thank you. Kovalevska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u220	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I have the impression that the drafters of this bill have absolutely no meaning in what fate will achieve their legislative initiatives: the draft will be supported, will not be. The main thing is to pass it. How else can you explain to us the introduction of this bill, which is essentially no different from what we rejected two months ago? Since then, the legislative framework in our country has not changed, and the abuse of a member of any grave remains covered in our State by the nature of the offence provided for in article 297 of the Criminal Code. In addition, I would like to recall that the degree of responsibility is established on the basis of the level of public risk of action. It depends, not on whose grave is defiled, but on what is done and for what purpose. In the event of desecration of the grave to fuel national hostility, there is a possibility that these actions may be qualified under other articles of the Criminal Code. I mean, in my opinion, in our country, abuse of.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-05-16-m0.u221	Thank you. Question completed. I put a motion to vote: to include in the agenda of the day a bill amending article 297 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[Registration number 10249]] [[author - Kirilenko]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:03:29]] For a hundred and The factions, please. The Party of Regions – did not vote, BUT – 79, “Our Ukraine” – 24, Communists – against 24, The People's Party – did not vote, “Reforms” – 1, “Afterfraction” – 3. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. At 3 p.m., committee meetings. I ask you to pay attention to those bills that we will need to consider tomorrow, especially in the second reading. Tomorrow's 10 o'clock.
