ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear National Deputies! Visitors and guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. It was registered in the 347 National Deputies Sessional Hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear National Deputies! Let me give you an overview of the plenary work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 4 to 7 September 2012. There were three plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and 58 issues of the agenda were discussed. As a result of their consideration, 14 laws and 5 regulations were passed, 24 bills were adopted on the basis of which 2 bills were converted to the subject of the legislative initiative and 8 bills were rejected. As a result of a review of President of Ukraine's proposals, 2 laws have been adopted in general, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. 114 parliamentary inquiries have been announced. Dear National Deputies! I offer your attention to the announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", articles 59 and 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and in accordance with a personal statement, I report the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Korotuk Vadim Ivanovic as a member of the Party of the Regions. Dear National Deputies! According to article 25 of the Rules of Procedure, 30 minutes are allocated Tuesday for the presentations of authorized members of the MPs and groups. Please sign up for the performance. Names of the national deputies. Basil Gureyev. Who will act? Yes, the names of the national deputies. Basil Gureyev. Who will act? Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov has a word from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Matthew, Shershon, Kožemyakin, Caplienne, and Moses were also enrolled. Please prepare properly for the performances. Next is Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews of the Communist faction. Your word, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u2	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear President, distinguished colleagues! The current eleventh session will take stock of our work in five years. Five years is a long time for politics. Much is erased from memory. People have already forgotten the devaluation of their bracelets twice, 22 per cent inflation, gas, gas, sugar crises, the hysteria of politicians around common things, such as increased flu disease or forest fires. We have forgotten the squabbles between the Majestic President and the Prime Minister, which have resulted in a 16 per cent decline in the economy. Orange policies competed so much in their love for Ukraine that they were willing to strangle her in their arms. It's all in the back. In 2010, by electing the head of State Viktor Yanukovic, the people of Ukraine broke the vicious circle. A majority had been formed in the Supreme Council, which had restored to Parliament its key role as a legislative body. The Constitution of Ukraine has been amended, making the system of public authority a stable and clear mechanism. The consolidation of the constituency ensured critical decisions. It is worth recalling that 13,000 200 bills have been introduced by legislative actors in ten sessions. Of these, the laws of 5,000 were 38. As part of the systematic modernization of the State, fundamental codes have been adopted: criminal procedure, budgetary, tax, customs. They are intended to radically change the entity of the country's legal system. Dozens of laws aimed at simplifying business and minimizing licensing procedures have begun to work. The introduction of additional funds from the stabilization of the economy enabled the social initiatives of the President to begin. We have resumed the increase in salaries, pensions, benefits and other payments to people. An unscheduled and infarct regime provides for the return of savings to Sberbank's former USSR investors. These payments will continue next year, for which $8 billion will be allocated to the budget. Since the entry into force of the anti-corruption package, the fight against corruption has become systematic. Hundreds of criminal cases have been instituted, and corruption has been punished, both by the previous and by the current authorities. At the same time, much effort remains to be made to eradicate this scourge in our State. The current parliamentary call has eliminated the parliamentary benefits and has taken a step towards overturning the inviolability of the people's deputies. The decision of the Constitutional Court gives us an opportunity to make this journey to a logical end. That is what society requires of us. The constitutional majority of the constituency and representatives of the opposition have adopted electoral legislation in such a way that it is virtually impossible to falsify the outcome of the elections. Our next objective is to ensure an honest and transparent electoral campaign that respects all democratic standards. No one should doubt the legitimacy of the results of the elections, for their outcome depends on the direction of further development of the country and its authority at the international level. The authorities and society have demonstrated the ability to work as a single team by implementing Euro-2012 at the level of world standards. And I am confident that we will again embarrass the critics, openly and transparently, and democratically elect a new Parliament. Dear colleagues, unless they intimidate our people before every election: inflation, the fall of national currency and other catastrophes. I want to assure you that the electoral campaign will not stop life in the country, the economy, the national currency will remain stable and predictable. We have laid a solid foundation for food security next year. But the guarantee of a successful solution to the challenges facing the country is also.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u3	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u4	and the effective work of Parliament. I very much hope that the responsible position of the deputy corps will not allow elections to be made a fact of destabilizing society. We are obliged to complete the history of the sixth and to convey to the new convening the constructive spirit that we have achieved together over the past two years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u5	Valentin Grigorovich Matviev, a faction of Communists, will be followed by Michael Schershun.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u6	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! The approximation of the parliamentary elections has marked a number of alarming trends, in particular the preparations for the establishment of strict oligarchy rule in Ukraine. What is now taking place is now seen to be under a loud statement on the protection of the interests of the community and their “real” coming to Parliament, of course, in coffeehouses, representatives. However, there is nothing to do with the system that we can get after the elections. Capital has declared a mass campaign in power. And the main instrument of this is the election in the majority districts. Today, communists are no longer talking about the prospects for mass falsifications of the results of the vote. We draw public attention to the risk of criminalization of the entire electoral process. Direct pressure is being exerted on the electoral commissions. We face physical violence against candidates and their supporters. There are numerous cases of unlawful pressure on the electorate. If the situation does not change, the next Parliament is likely to be filled by lobbyists from oligarchic and semi-criminal business groups rather than community representatives. As a result, Ukraine will develop a regime of non-formal semi-criminal princes, which will finally overturn the prospect of establishing a true nationality in our country, and that will, of course, not be possible to eliminate this regime as a revolutionary or mass speech of workers. For what is happening with the country cannot last that long. The total privatization of not just strategic but vital industries and enterprises for the country and people is nearing completion. Today some of them are biting, and we can see that for the time being, tomorrow we risk waking up in a state that will be "the naked king". Public tariffs are even higher, social support will become a fiction, and workers will be completely ineligible, and a regime of arbitrary and illegality will be established in the country, all in the light of the growth of profits in private offshore pockets. Will the semi-criminal parliament face this? I don't think so. Would it matter how many seats it would give to members waving through provincial or opposition flags? Nope. Because both go with the same program, they use the same methods. Communists call on voters not to be impressed by this “sacred-family scandal”. The Communist faction in the Supreme Council will do its utmost to curb the offensive to constitutional rights and the vital interests of our citizens. We call on the Government to stop using conversations, edicts, about the crisis as an excuse for the continuation of anti-social and economic policies. Liberal experiments only exacerbate the situation in Ukraine's economy. It is therefore necessary to change the course of socio-economic development of the country. And we will support all practical steps — personnel, organizational, political — if they are in this direction. There's another way.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u7	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u8	There's no other way! Another way is to go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u9	Mikola Shershun from the National Party faction, please give your speech, Mikola Haritonovich. Next is Andrew Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u10	Mikola Shershun, faction of the People's Party. Dear Head, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that the problem that I am raising today is a national one. It affects not only one area but also the whole of Ukraine. We all sincerely rejoice in the growth of population in the country, the dynamics of birth, and we appreciate the positive and the gains of power. In the leaders of this indicator is my native Plainland. I meet people a lot, especially in the villages, and it is a pleasure to see new buildings, whole streets, and microregions grow. At the same time, at each meeting, people raise questions about the electrification of new streets. The cost of these projects is sometimes about, think, a million dollars, 40 percent of that amount should be paid by the owners themselves, the rest of them 60, to be separated from the local budgets. And the last few people give away the last cents, and the ones who make the most of it stand outside. Therefore, it would be logical for citizens to be helped by energy distribution companies by electrifying the streets. Yet it is easier for them now to wait for the local community to take on their shoulders the burden of financing a project with electricity, and then they gladly agree to take the network for services and easy, and just get the profits. It's not a better situation with no power lines. In just one region of the Plains region, there are more than 100 miles [100 km] of them. At the time, they were laid at their own expense, paid hard money for electricity, and again, someone made a profit. And when it comes to bringing these lines into line with modern requirements and taking them on balance, energy distribution companies refuse to do so. He said let the village councils do whatever it takes and then pass it on to the companies. People complain that because of the low voltage of the network and its constant declines, the techniques of life are damaged, children have to learn lessons and have problems with their eyesight when they are ill - lit. At the local level, it is impossible to help these people, and there is no mechanism for influencing a company that has a foreign owner. The solution may be to increase the share of the investment component in existing electricity tariffs in existing electricity tariffs, which is entirely dependent on the will of the government. At that time, energy distribution companies are able not only to contribute to new networks but also to make the necessary replacements and repairs of existing transformers and wiring networks. I would like to point out that the situation requires immediate intervention by the government. And another point that concerns individual housing in the countryside. I have already raised the issue of the need to simplify the procedure for land ownership and property by 1992. And today, again, I have to go to the Cabinet of Ministers, let's simplify the system of obtaining technical passports for such buildings, as well as the procedure for adopting objects that are legally awake for the time being. We need to cancel the fines for not having documents for this real estate, because before they, these documents, we don't have to do that, and now it's putting a heavy burden on our citizens. I am addressing Prime Minister Mikolia Azarov of Ukraine with a proposal to give a mandate to study, understand and finally develop a national programme to finance the electrification of the newly built streets and to adopt a balance on non-agricultural electricity lines. Because in years of independence, the state budget has not spent any more money on solving these problems. Of course, energy distribution companies shouldn't be apart, with the rest, it's an investment in the development of our state, in its future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u11	Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin, the BUT faction of the Fatherland, has a word. Vladimir Kaplienko will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Today, the Ukrainian people have been given a vivid picture of what causes them to become completely uncontrolled when they are allowed to do so and not be held accountable, nor to the Ukrainian people, but now, as has been revealed to the international community. This is primarily true of the Ukrainian judiciary, which has turned into an institution of repression and opposition. Selective justice, respect for the rule of law, has become the main feature of Ukraine’s image in the international arena. And secondly, this applies to us, the people's advocates directly, the parliamentary majority allows themselves to ignore the Rules, the laws, and, excuse me, the common sense. Please tell me, who in our country can afford to work one day a week? And the Party of the Regions wanted and made such a gift, and their satellites were pleased to support such a regime of work of the Supreme Council, which constantly criticizes it but does not come out of opposition. Why is this done? First of all, in order for the government not to be able to report on their famous "improvement" today, in paws when, in fact, Ukraine has been led to total economic and political bankruptcy. It is not convenient for the government to work in parliament to eliminate the opposition of the rostrum and not let us tell the truth about the real state of things in the state, namely political repression, the oppression of freedom of speech, the screaming corruption in all spheres and the poverty of people. And we, the United Opposition and the Fatherland, have something to say to the Ukrainian people. In particular, the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on September 12 in relation to Ukraine calls on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to remove from Ukrainian legislation the responsibility of government officials for political action. I quote: "The European Parliament calls for Ukrainian power. The Supreme Council amends criminal legislation that dates back to Soviet times and removes criminal responsibility for political actions carried out by government officials and those who have acted at the official level." And the signing and initialling of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union can only be done if these requirements are met. In addition, the leaders of the European Union have repeatedly pointed out to our seniors the inadmissibility of selective justice, which resulted in Julia Timoshenko and Yuri Lucenko being deprived of the right to participate in the elections. Thus, the responsibility for Ukraine’s being virtually deprived of the European future lies with the President of Ukraine and with the majority in the Supreme Council. Today we have every reason to say that the Party of Regions, which is now in power, is preparing mass forgeries in future parliamentary elections. And this is proven by the Decree of September 13, this year by the Central Election Commission, which changed the order of the formation of district election committees. In an effort to discredit our political power, the authorities use intimidation, blackmail, terror, and even force Julius Tymoshenko’s roommates to give false interviews with a variety of hoaxes in order to tarnish our leader and, at least, to defuse the united opposition of Fatherland. In doing so, the media report reports that voters’ sympathy for the Party of the Regions has been growing. Apparently, the increase in the so-called Regional Party rating is increasing proportionally to a total increase in prices in the country. In the elections, the people will give a proper assessment of the functioning of the regime. Therefore, these parliamentary elections will not be able to be conducted in the style of previous campaigns. The United Opposition, the World, the European Community, and the entire Ukrainian people will be decisive. We work with the Fatherland and we win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u13	Vladimir Caplienko, the Reform Group for the Future. The next will be Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u14	Dear fellow countrymen! As the election date approaches, there is an increasing number of optimistic and barbaric reports from the government's management of the socio-economic sphere, the assurance that there are no premeditations to make goods more expensive and to guarantee price stability. The parliamentary faction of Reforms for the Future points out that against the background of negative trends in the European economy and the slowdown in the growth of the domestic economy, such governmental optimism raises legitimate doubts. Because the problems in spending the last 20 years and even in the 2013 budget, which no one has seen in the second reading, are not. In Ukraine there are problems with money, with income, with wages, because Ukraine is now suffocating without money; there is no income; there is no demand without intermediaries; there is no village; there is no village, there are no more peasants today, they are smiling; there is no understanding of who. Did you know that government officials in 2012 almost used their salary, and they got it because they don't have it today? Thus, Ukraine’s modern economy is unable to provide guaranteed revenue to the State budget for social expenditure in such a format. But that is not all. The economic bloc of the government needs to review, in our view, its preliminary projections for the growth of the Ukrainian economy for 2012 as estimated by international financial organizations, including the World Bank, are expected to be at a level of 2 percent, almost twice as low as previously claimed by the government of Ukraine. In the first half of 2012, compared to last year, Ukraine’s external trade deficit increased by 2.1 times, amounting to nearly $4 billion. A. that the prices of Russian gas to date are not regulated, as well as the loans in the International Monetary Fund are not stable, and they are not settled, and we now have a full prospect of an increase in Ukraine's external trade deficit. The negative factor is also much lower than last year’s crop of grains in Ukraine. World Bank estimates that since the beginning of the summer, the price of wheat in the world’s markets has already increased by 50 percent, and the price of corn has risen by almost 40 percent. The MP's Reform for the Future stressed that rising food prices in world markets in full, total lack of price regulation by the State would lead to an increase in food prices in Ukraine, and that would affect all 46 million Ukrainians. We are confident that further developments in the situation under the above mentioned circumstances and inadequacy of the government's response to current and past socio-economic challenges can lead to a recurrence of the financial and economic crisis in 2008, but we think it will be much more destructive. In view of the above, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" is calling on the government to address socio-economic problems in the state in a responsible, balanced and systematic manner. We call on the government to take professional action, real grades and projections. Otherwise, the adoption of populist socio-economic decisions will have unforeseeable consequences and devastating effects on Ukrainians and the state. And to the end. Ukraine needs socio-economic change. The nation must be restored to its responsibilities as a breadwinner, a stimulator, and a protector. We're working!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u15	The word is Arsenija Petrovich Yacenuk, the faction of "Our Ukraine is a national self-defence".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u16	Honorable Members of Parliament! I'd like to draw your attention to two things. First. The Ukrainian State Budget Act, which was introduced by this government. And secondly, the Ukrainian government itself. The opposition is often criticized for criticizing the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. After the Ukrainian National Budget Bill was approved, I believe that in Ukraine it is the most brilliant government. Only the Ukrainian government can increase the government’s income by 20 billion dollars in one hour in the Cabinet! Only the Ukrainian government can predict the growth of the economy twice as much as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and all international organizations forecast. Only the Ukrainian government can tell the Ukrainians that improvements have come and we have increased social standards while increasing the cost of living by 5.9 percent in 2013! And inflation is 5.9 percent! In other words, living standards will increase by 0 percent in 2013. Only the Ukrainian government can tell all over the week on all television channels what a brilliant budget they have made, how good it will be for everyone to live, what this budget needs to be made immediately, and then, after the decision on this budget has been taken, read it, shake it up, and turn to Parliament to withdraw the budget. To this day, we do not know what the final version of this State Budget Act is. However, I believe that this state budget is nothing more than a party of regions before the 2012 elections. What Does Opposition Require? First of all, we ask Prime Minister Azarov and President Yanukovic to explain why in 2.5 years of their stay in power, Ukraine has borrowed as much in the external market as Ukraine has borrowed in the last 20 years. The other one. Where did the $10 billion of U.S. gold reserves go in one year? Third. What it means to improve and how this improvement relates to yesterday’s data from the State Statistics Committee, which predicted that in Ukraine industrial production dropped by 5 percent in one month. The decline in industrial production is a reduction in orders. Decreasing orders is closing down factories. The closing down of factories is the release of workers. Those workers, for example, are now released from three main factories in Zaporozhye. Nearly 6,000 people will lose their jobs, almost 6,000 families, that's over 25,000 Ukrainians, and they'll run out of living expenses. We demand that we explain why the State Budget Act does not contain a single word about the national monetary unit. How did you count the State Budget Act if you didn't know what the course would be? We have serious suspicions that the government is not publishing a course on purpose or on purpose, as it knows that there will be devaluation after the election. We demand that the new State Budget Act review the new Supreme Council of Ukraine, where the new Supreme Council of Ukraine will have a democratic majority based on the "Universal Union of the Fatherland". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u17	Dear national deputies, statements by factions, statements by authorized representatives have been completed. With regard to the suggestions that have been made in the presentations that need to be responded to, I would ask the secretariat to form appropriate instructions and even parliamentary requests. Dear colleagues, let me inform you, I did this on the Conciliation Council, which on September 14th, as required by the Constitution and the Budget Code, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduced a draft State Budget for 2013. The committee took a look at this budget, and I studied it carefully, and we made a concerted decision, not on the committee's proposal, but on the basis of the committee's proposals, my personal initiative, to return this budget to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to bring it into line with the Budget Resolution, with the President of Ukraine's letter, which, in accordance with the Law on Software Documents, has the status of law, and to submit all necessary documents to accompany the budget. And once the Cabinet of Ministers is working on it, it will do all the formalities required by the law, and we will have the opportunity to look at it. It's for your information. Dear colleagues, we need to make a decision with you that we discussed at the Conciliation Council. When we formed a calendar plan for our work, we predicted that Parliament should work fully, despite the election campaign. And they did it in contrast to previous practice, when meetings were held several times a month to discuss urgent problems. Today, part of the MPs that are floating in the constituencies directly in the districts are those that are on party lists that are like VIP personnel, VIP agitators also work. And under such circumstances, we would have to make a decision to adjust the calendar plan. And we talked about this at the meeting yesterday, one minute, the Conciliation Council. For us to determine on the days that the calendar is scheduled as a session, to hold meetings on Tuesday, to spend the rest working on committees, and, of course, in the field, so to speak. Well, people should see a broad representation of deputies for five years, though. So I would ask the faction one minute at a time to make a statement on this proposal. Well, let's do two. Please sign up. I don't see a problem. Let's do two for, two against, in accordance with Article 19 of the Rules. Names of the national deputies. Valerius Kamchatny.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u18	Thank you, Reverend Volodymyr Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, the MP's "Reforms for the Future" faction thinks this proposal is absolutely right, supports it. We think we need to define today and work on all the issues that have been brought into the agenda. And then, starting tomorrow, at work with the electorate, we thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u19	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u20	Alexander Sergeevich!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u21	Alexander Efraemov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I think the proposal that Vladimir Mihajlovich made makes sense and makes sense. Let us carefully remember the work of calling before us. Before the elections, almost the Supreme Council stopped working because a large number of deputies participated and worked with voters. We have today seen a situation where we have entered into reforms and cannot, on the one hand, stop the work of Parliament, and on the other hand, some three hundred and forty deputies of the current call are taking part in the election campaign. It would therefore be logical to find some compromise between Parliament's work in order to adopt relevant legislation and to allow members to participate in an election campaign. And it would probably be right if we decided on a working day where we could draft all the bills for adoption. Perhaps this working day should be extended until all issues are addressed. Then perhaps we could solve both one problem and the other. I would ask not only members of the majority but also members of the opposition to support such a schedule of work, because I think he is reasonable. And Vladimir Mikhailovich offers it perfectly logically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u23	Vladimir Karpuk, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u24	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to Jaroslav Mikhailovich Kendzior.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u25	Jaroslav Kenzier, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u26	Jaroslav Kenzior. Vladimir Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I think that's the kind of decision that we're doing the bear service primarily to those deputies today who are going to the elections that are going to the constituencies or to the party lists. Because each of you can predict what the reaction in society is going to be to this terrible incarceration, to the tenth sweat, to work in the session room. You will certainly be asked, MPs, when you arrive in the district on a weekly workday, what is the honorary benefit, and this plenary week's salary will be paid, won't you get it? Whether you go to the register honorably and, "without lending to Syrka eyes," you will take away your little salary and go back to convincing the electorate what a happy life you will organize for them." Vladimir Mikhailovich, not all deputies will be in the districts. The Supreme Council has a dayly set of bills awaiting immediate consideration. And I would think that we should stick to the calendar plan that was approved by the Supreme Council and work as a normal parliament, and not to some, I'm sorry, I don't want to use the epithet strongly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u27	People's Deputy Korgee, the Faction "BUT" is the Fatherland. Sergei Sass, right? Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Sas.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u28	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. National Deputy Sass, BUIT is Fatherland. Vladimir Mikhailovich, I want to remind you and most of the people that the Constitution is still in force in Ukraine, particularly article 75, which determines that there is a higher legislative body in Ukraine. There's a rule in the Constitution that predicts that the Supreme Council is working in session and that we have a session that starts on September 1st. The Supreme Council approves the calendar plan and it approves it when it operates in plenary mode for two weeks, the Supreme Council works for two weeks: 1 in committees, 1 in districts. Another for any period of time, including the pre-election Constitution, does not provide for conditions. So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, the Supreme Council, strangely comes out, may make a decision, but she has approved a calendar plan, and now she's walking away from it and giving the reasons that the elections have begun. And she made her third vacation month, or two months off, and now you can work two days a month. Let's do that, and if the school teachers close up under these circumstances, because the elections, the hospitals, the hospitals will close because the elections, the workers will leave the factory because the elections. What will happen then, where such a thing is seen? Who gave you and most people the right not to work in plenary mode when there are dozens and hundreds of urgent issues? And this, I'm talking to most, because the minority can afford some things because only seven of the 240 drafts of the opposition are supported for the previous session. Stop pharisaicism, Vladimir Mikhailovich, work as provided by the Constitution and do not fool people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u29	Oleg Zarubinski, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! The funny thing is, here are some characters accusing others of wanting to work, and the characters come to make another statement, then jump on the clock in front of the cameras, and then their spirit forgives them. So they don't want to work, all their bills have been revoked, they want others to work in plenary, and they've been doing electoral work at the time. I said it was a fun situation, but it was a hypocritical situation, if anyone wanted to work, that not two dozen people would have to come in today, but all the factions of their factions and show their active work, not for five minutes, but to the end of all the issues today. And we're going to see today when we're working, really, to exhaust the order of the day, how many 5 people, or 3 men, or zero men will be left with those characters who accuse someone of wanting to work and they run and jump. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Question completed. The point is that I raised all the last sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the elections and got an interesting picture, the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked mostly in committees and factions, and more specifically among voters, and including, I think, people who have been in the Supreme Council since the first democratic call, that's first. Second of all, dear colleagues, I'll get you all a job, a committee job. Conduct committee meetings. And we're going to control very hard not to put an eight when there's no one on the committee. As many now come especially by giving hot talks, they sign there, and then they flee the session hall. So if you want to work, let's work. I'm always there on the day of the plenary. And if you want to refer to teachers and medics and participate in election campaigns, write statements, add a temporary license number to the MP and take a vacation without saving your salary. And that'll be fair! And that'll be fair! And don't engage in moralism at the expense of government, you can get a job. Others are under unequal conditions. So let's do without those words. If necessary, every Tuesday we begin our plenary work. If we have to continue, we will continue our work. But to make people laugh when there are two men left who control the faction and train everyone, and everyone else is doing what they're teaching the country, how they're going to build it, I think it's a more unworthy position than just sitting around and arguing about their decision! So I am proposing, in accordance with article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, that the calendar plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be amended. Today, September 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine worked in plenary mode until the finalization of the issues set out in the September 18 schedule. The next days are 19 and 21 working on committees and factions. Next. October 2nd is plenary work and October 3-5 is committee and faction work. October 16 is a full-time job. And from October 17th to October 19th, work on committees and factions. I ask you to vote on this proposal. In accordance with Article 19 of the Rules of Procedure. [[10:44:39]] For 264 Decision taken, thank you. So today, we are working at an evening session before the finalization of the issues identified by the schedule. By factions, please: The Party of the Regions – 188, BUT – Fatherland – 1, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 1, Communists – 25, People's Party – 20, Reforms for the Future – 17, non-fractional – 12. Thank you. The draft Order repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 06.09 is announced for consideration. On the 12th year of the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property, second reading and generally as a law. [[Registration number 10043]] Reporters. And it's dealt with in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, this issue is dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Then the rapporteurs: Ukrainian National Deputy Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas, Yuri Anatoliyovich Karmazin, will speak from the committee to the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir MacKeienko. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u32	Thank you. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear colleagues, on September 6th at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property. [[Registration number 10043]] Such a decision provides that the bill should be returned to read again. The second reading procedure is envisaged in accordance with article 124 and article 116 for ten days so that national deputies can make a proposal. However, in violation of the rules of article 116, 124, a number of other articles, article 117, 47, the chairman of the Supreme Council, Adam Martinyuk, twice challenged the same Rules to vote on the adoption of the bill in second reading and in general. I understand that the bill is being tabled only to open the way for the Supreme Council to sign the law. I'd like to pay attention only to the following, my dear fellows, you don't hear the opposition, but look at the conclusion of the Legal Department, which lists a number of violations of the articles of the Constitution, of the laws of Ukraine, of what opens the way to creating corrupt schemes for land relations. And for the citizens, I mean. Dear Ukrainian citizens, most of them are taking the last asset -- Ukrainian land, taking the language, taking the land, taking Ukraine. Elections soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Karmazin. I can't see. Then it's from the Vladimir MacKeenko Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ukrainian National Deputies Karmazin and Sasa have introduced draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a second reading and, as a whole, the draft law of the Ukrainian Law on the amendment of certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property, submitted at number 10043-P1, 10043-P2 and corresponding written statements to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Lithuania, Vladimir Mihajlovich, dated 7 September of this year. Thus, in particular, the Ukrainian National Deputy Carmazin in the Explanatory Note to the draft decision, notes that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the bill violated the procedure for the adoption of laws provided for in articles 84 and 91 of the Constitution of Ukraine concerning the personal voting of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and article 116 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National MP Sass drew attention to, inter alia, violating the requirements of article 47 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure for the adoption of decisions by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding draft laws, regulations, other acts only on issues included in the agenda until the beginning of the plenary session. We note that on September 6th of this year, at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had already considered the same issue and had adopted a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to annul the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the second reading and, as a whole, the bill of the draft Law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property, a project initiated by the Ukrainian national deputies Kirilenko, Tomenkom and Sasam on the grounds that they were reproduced in the aforementioned projects. [[at 10043-p]]
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u35	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u36	In view of this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft rulings submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Karmazin and Sasa on the same grounds as were considered at the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 September this year and a decision was taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, please sign up for two for two, two against. Yes, please, Grivkowski. He's refusing. Catherinechuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u38	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has accepted two security guards that do not allow corruption to sell Ukrainian land. The first was the establishment of a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land by 1 January 2013. The second was the adoption of the Law on the Moratorium on the Delimitation of State and Municipal Property. What's going on now? So one of the fuses wants to cancel today. And that's why the proposal, both Carmazin and Sasa, has to be voted on. Clearly, there are a lot of procedural things that they refer to, but the main question is the political question, whether we have a corrupt, opaque market for the earth, or whether we stop it. I want to say that today what the Party of Regions is trying to do, and the speculative cluster and the reselling of land, today in Poland, members of the European Union, 1 hectare of land, I'm translating from the euro into the bracelet, costs about 50,000 dollars. On Winnieco, by its properties, the earth costs somewhere between 70 and 80,000 dollars. Can you imagine, after the moratorium and acceptance of this disgrace, which is now being offered to cancel both Carmazin and Sass, what is going to happen in the land market? What will a grandmother who has an act of 2 hectares [2 ha] of land do when she goes to auction after 1 January 2013 to sell this land? When a policeman, a tax collector, a prosecutor, a judge fights in the bathrooms to whom she will complain when she is simply removed. Nothing needs to be sown and done, took away, took away 160,000 dollars right away. We strongly oppose that proposal, we support Karmazin and Sasa's proposal, and we ask those majors who go to the polls not to vote for it, because it will never be forgiven. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u39	Thank you. Yuri Hanustak. Who will be, Yuri Hanustak or. Sergei Sas, please. And then Gordien.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, you were gone, dear colleagues, I wanted to repeat myself, but to point out that today's consideration of the matter is formal. The Rules Committee had not considered the matter, so I do not know whose name the committee head was speaking for. No one disputed that there had been gross violations of the Rules when the bill was adopted, including those presiding at the meeting: both Lithuania and Martinyuk. It's June 22nd. Vladimir Mikhailovich, don't look at me like that. So, Vladimir Mikhailovich, once again, I emphasize that in the Ukrainians, I was not allowed to finish, they took the language, they opened the way to take the land, and then the independence of Ukraine. Therefore, respectable friends, respectable voters, be vigilant! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u41	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u42	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, who listen to us! I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in considering this bill in the sessional room, the faction of the Company of Ukraine did not support this bill in either first or second reading and emphasized the flaws that are present in it. We talked about it opening the way for the sale of agricultural land. We talked about the fact that it deprives the territorial communities of their land rights. We have drawn attention to the fact that this bill is being passed in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian Rules. And we said that in the end it would still lead to the end of the vote that it was. So today the faction of the Company of Ukraine will fully support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u43	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u44	The Ukrainian Company's faction will support the decision to call off this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u45	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues! I think we have made the right decision to work effectively one day, because those who advocated the week's work. I understand that of the 150 people who were elected to Parliament, no more, the faction was broken up, there was 60 people there, but at least half the people in the room were present. What a conscience to have! They were running from the rostrum and ran away. And they ran away. As far as the law is concerned, there is no need to cast a shadow on the fabrication of the land market, nor is there any privatization. The land market will still, if decided, be a very long process of discussion, round tables, discussions with society, with farmers, with those working on the ground, a long process. Therefore, there is no need to deceive. Well, in conclusion, I would like to say that this ruling is caused by only one of the 28 attempts to win political dividends in the elections. Although I repeat, if there was a conscience, we would at least come to vote. I'll see how many of the 150 deputies vote. No, 152, I think it was elected Fatherland. How many of them?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Sergei Volodymyrovich Sas said there were violations. Indeed, the violation took place, and you justly made a decision to annul the decision. I therefore hope that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should support this position. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 6 September 2012 on the adoption of a second reading and, as a whole, a bill amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the delimitation of state and municipal property. [[Registration number 10043-p2]] Please vote. Here comes the vote, which is not voted. [[10:58:32]] For-60 The decision is not taken. By factions, please: The Party of the Regions is 1, BUT- "The Fatherland" is 14, "Our Ukraine – The People's Self-Defense" is 14, the Communists are 25, the People's Party is 0, "The Reforms for the Future" is 2, the non-factional is 4. For the sake of clarity, I'm putting to the vote the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation, registration number 10043-P1, which is similar to the contents, namely the repeal of the adopted law, registration number 10043. Please vote. [[10:59:18]] For-67 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please: The Regional Party is 0, "BUT-"Batakushina" – 20, "Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense" – 16, communists – 25, People's Party – 0, "Reforms for the Future" – 1, non-fractional – 5. Dear colleagues, let's move on. I would like to place a motion on the vote, please note, on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the implementation of the distribution agreements, 11213. Please vote. [[11:00:06]] For 234 Decision taken. 234. Yes, there is a proposal for a vote. Yes, please sign in. Yes, the names. Mikola Dmitrovich Catherinechuk. Stanislav Arjevitin, right? Stanislaw Arzhevtin, please. Then there's Gannushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u48	I thank Mr. Catherinechuk, and I think we're really going to express a common position. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about us including today Ukraine's agenda, a bill that will regulate the principles of the creation of Ukraine's land bank. This is an extremely important bill, an important subject. And that's why I have a proposal that today, given what we're going to be looking at in the afternoon of this bill, we get all the deputies of the statute of this bank. We know that the Cabinet of Ministers decreed on 2 July 2012 that a decision had been taken to create a land bank, and the statute of that bank had been approved. So, I think when we discuss it in the afternoon, it would be very good if we had a charter of this bank in the hall. I think that would make it easier to make a decision. So I ask that my proposal be taken into account. In the afternoon, we were handed out the approved statute of the Earth Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u49	I'm going to ask the secretariat right away to prepare an appropriate term statement, right now, the law's not signed yet, so here's the problem. Well, if there's any project to show us. Yuri Hanustzak, "BUT" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen! Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Well, it's just here that some of the pro-dominant people have just said that no amount of land is involved, that the previous law, it's just about dividing municipal and state property. And now we're being offered an absolute mechanism, how this land is going to be not even sold, but taken away as it will be. Well, let's not be so cynical. They'd spread at least a day or two of these questions, so that the people would get used to the fact that the local self-government authorities in the hall first separated from information about what was being done on their land in their area of jurisdiction, even the executive authorities in places, the territorial authorities from information that would claim on this land. The previous bill in the hall was taken away from any control, so to carry on the distribution of produce, the authorities of local self-government have separated from how the local self-government authorities will exercise control over how the land will be taken away from them. Look at the project. If the authorities of local self - government had previously participated, now, if others were not provided by the parties. So at Kabmin's level, they decided to take land, municipal land into local self-government and everything, and they wrote it in the statutory fund of the respective investor. They're trying to get the land bank in. Everyone understands why this is done in order to benefit the chosen people of the family before the last cast of Ukraine because they feel they are losing the election. So you can't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u51	Sergey Gordienko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u52	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. I would also like to draw attention to the problem of the very first question that was raised here in the session room, namely the bill on the delimitation of state and municipal property and the bill today. As the first bill was the language of the creation of the State Land Bank, this idea is already evolving and changes are being made to the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine. But what is extremely interesting is the the thesis that they are trying to create the statutory capital of this bank at the expense of the land. Such assets today are not foreseen by the Banking and Banking Act to create statutory capital. And it's very strange for us to have both, and it's very alarming, because we don't have a virtually state bank bankruptcy mechanism in Ukraine. What if the State Land Bank goes bankrupt and what happens to that land when it gets there? In one word, though, it is introduced by the land market, the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, the faction of the Company of Ukraine will not support the inclusion of the bill in the agenda. What's more, we don't see any document about the statutory activity of the future created bank. It's a very dangerous precedent. And I don't think you need him out of a shoelace. In a calm environment, though, we need to take a good look. And then we're going to adopt such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u53	Vladimir Kaplienko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u54	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich! Thank you very much! I, the group, didn't want to speak. But after the two preceding talks, it is still worth saying. You know, you don't have to press that, you know, fever. So far, land reform is needed in Ukraine. We need to conduct, implement a land-relationship system. And the three basic principles on which they should be based are the creation of the State Land Bank, the creation of the State Land Fund, and the pricing system in this area in the Cabinet of Ministers. Or another organ that does this. Well, why are you tying and politicizing this process? It is not possible to establish normal land relations in Ukraine without the creation of a land bank. So it's true what you want or don't want. This bill, in our view, we will vote for it, by the way, in the first reading, including. We need to work on it a little bit. But it regulates the technical component of how to form the State Land Bank. How he will act, on the basis of what laws and laws he is subject to. Therefore, there is no need to be downtrodden. We will vote in favour of this law and we urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! Question completed. It's just a sentence. We had a beautiful land bank, the Bank of Ukraine. And I'm asking the Secretariat to pick up the paperwork. We had investigators working here. Then show the heroes who are involved in the bank's theft. And by the way, I've introduced a draft law, a draft decree on the formation of the TSC, to continue investigating this issue and to raise the results of the vote. In order for there to be less shouting in the session room, why they did not support and who did not support it. I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending the Banking and Banking Act of Ukraine concerning the State Land Bank. [[Registration number 11202]] Please vote. [[11:08:31]] For 241 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 191, "BUT – Fatherland", "Our Ukraine" and communists – 0, National Party – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 18, non-fractional – 12. Well, I asked, I haven't gotten the information yet. The proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Representation of the President of Ukraine in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is put to the vote. [[on property management]] [[Registration number 11174]] Please vote. [[11:09:22]] For 261 Decision taken. The proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft Act amending paragraph 4 of section XXI of the Customs Code of the Customs Code of Ukraine on the exemption from taxes on imported goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine as part of the implementation of projects on the basis of international technical assistance provided in accordance with valid international agreements, the initiatives of the countries of the Great Eight "Global Partnership against the Distribution of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction" is put to the vote. [[application]] [[Registration number 11187]] Please vote. [[11:10:13]] For 242 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 100th anniversary of Victor Yvchenk's birth. [[Registration number 11143]] Please vote. [[11:10:40]] For 270. We'll look into it, we'll report on what you are. Dear colleagues, I'd like not to be indignant. If you want this document to go down, let's talk. I'm voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project the 80th anniversary of Michael Tkacha's birth. Please vote, [[11:11:24]] For 272 Decision taken. Voting proposal for inclusion in the agenda, please log in. Sign up. Please put your name on the board. Stanislaw Arzhevtin, faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u56	Well, please pass the word to Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u57	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Ladies and gentlemen, this question has not been addressed on the budget committee. There's some sort of order. In fact, the bill, from which we are currently considering increasing the wages of a particular category, and in addition, we have to compensate for these demands from the state budget. We have an article in the budget called "A Grant in Industrial Enterprises." As part of this article, let Kabin write to those who are elevated, to whom they are downgrading. Because besides miners, we have a whole category of other citizens. We have categories called "teachers," we have categories called "medicals," we have categories called "culture workers." There is no decision to make changes to the state budget in part of the increase in wages for these categories. What's a mine? Shacks are industrial enterprises that have some balance sheets, they're subjects of economic activity. If indeed, from the point of view of pre-election commitments, they want to increase wages, this is what the article should be called: "To increase subsidies to state-owned coal companies." They don't want to increase the wages of the coal companies themselves, but they want to have huge profits and hide them in offshores, and so they demand that these things go out of the state budget. I think it's not state, it's wrong, that's it. And that doesn't even fit the Rules, because that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u58	Vladislav Lukyanov, one minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u59	Well, you know, it's hard for me to answer, because now I'm getting so indignant -- what a jerk it takes to talk about people who work.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u60	I'd like that. I would ask for diplomatic and parliamentary expressions to be! Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u61	in the mine and provide energy security. To ensure the energy security of our country, which descends every day, they work under difficult conditions. You go down the mine once and see how people work. That's the first one. And as for the bill, I want to say that it's included in the agenda of the committee that will be considering it at 12 o'clock today, and it will be ready for consideration at the evening session. That's the first one. I would also like to say that this bill is balanced by expenditure and revenue to the state budget. Please support everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u62	Replica is Ganushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u63	I don't want to react at all to the outpourings of people who were "watchers" in the relevant organizations there, and now they're putting themselves on top of the great experts in the budget process and the budget system. God will instruct you in another way. But I insist once again on that, except for miners, there are a whole bunch of people who also provide not only energy but also military security for Ukraine. They don't get paid, you don't care about them, you shorten Ukraine's Armed Forces to destroy Ukraine in general. And you care about your wallets so that your oligarchs don't pay people's wages, you want them to leave the state budget. Say it like that, not fool people!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u64	Adam Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, let's take the document and read what we're talking about before we speak. It's in this bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, that we're talking about increasing the spending of Minneergocarbon on the budget programme "State Support for Industrial Enterprises" and so on. I mean, it's about a government program, about increasing spending on a government program, about one of the authors calling us from one foot to the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2012. [[on the increase in wage costs for employees of coal-fired enterprises]] [[Registration number 11222]] Please vote. [[11:17:30.]] For 268. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party 192, BUT, "Fatherland", "Our Ukraine is National Self-Defense", respectively, zero. Communists 25, People's Party 20, Reforms for the Future 19, non-fractional 12. And now, honourable colleagues, the draft decision on accounting in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is the amount of funds needed to make compensation payments to investors and heirs of deceased investors in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Valentina Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! As you and I remember, the lack of funding for the state budget during the years 2008-2011 on measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings caused a large number of citizens' appeals to each of us national deputies in general to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as to executive authorities and local self-government. The adoption of changes to the 2012 state budget took into account the proposals made on 13 April last year by the National MPs of the Communist faction in the Supreme Council of Parliamentary Hearings on State Policy to address the problem of the return and compensation of lost, undervalued citizens' savings, to fund measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings. What we are proposing with Peter Mikolayovich Simonenk is a draft Supreme Council ruling, which is to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in preparing and introducing to the Supreme Council the draft National Budget Act of Ukraine for the following year to foresee expenses to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings, no less than was planned for this year, of which part of the cost is within the actual need to channel compensation payments to the heirs of the deceased investors. The implementation of this project requires expenditure from the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u68	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u69	At least six billion, 150 million dollars are needed from the State Budget. The adoption of this regulation does not require amendments to other legal acts. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, if you insist on speaking, please sign in. Please. Yes, Stanislav Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very good legislative initiative, because you've heard from the rostrum that there's actually a problem in our economy because of the lack of resources. And that's what Mr. Caplienko, a national MP, was very good at talking about. I would like to remind you, today, according to the National Bank, there are almost 450 billion dollars in the population. [[That's what you can count on.]] Can you imagine what a powerful credit or financial resource is in the hands of our Ukrainians? Once again, the citizens of my state, of any state, are the biggest investors of their own economy. So we really have to demonstrate through legislative initiatives that we, the state, are protecting their investments. And in this situation, the legislative initiative to fix a specific amount in the budget is right. But there is another good suggestion that if we were to remind the entire group of Ukrainians of those who, unfortunately, died and could no longer receive the funds in person. Until now, there have been various legislative initiatives to put those Ukrainians first. Of course, this is not possible under the Constitution. But given that man has died and is an heir, I think we can allow ourselves to include such a standard in order for those rulers to meet their requirements first. But in order for us to take this decision as a whole, I think we need to think about when we talk about what is, "in the face of actual need," who is going to define this need. Next, who is the heir, because the word "inheritor," we have to write, "in accordance with the law, heir," because he's going to charge a lot of relatives, and people are going to have a problem. That's why the offer is correct, but it's a bit of an adjustment.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u73	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. It is absolutely right in Parliament to provide in the next year's budget for the payment of lost savings. I would like to draw the attention of our Ukrainian citizens to the fact that the government that boasts of social gains in the draft budget that it has put forward for the following year did not provide for any amount to be paid. Similarly, in the 2013 draft budget, the government of Azarov did not provide for the implementation of the Law on the Status of War Children. Similarly, Ukrainian citizens should know that the Party of Regions, a government that tells about raising the standards of living of citizens, did not provide for a single copy in the budget the following year to execute court decisions on payments to children of war, to the Chernobyl family, to other socially vulnerable categories of citizens. So today's government, the Party of Regions, continues to rob Ukrainian citizens, take what is legal. I strongly protest this government policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. Appropriately, it is with the government that payments are being made to children of war in order to increase the funds that are provided for children of war. Including in this connection, the State Budget project has been redesigned. Mikhailo Chechetov from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u75	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, I address the radio audience first, because it is not to be confused. I want to reassure you that this year, thousands of bracelets will be given to millions of people who are to receive it without any haste, without any order, in accordance with the planned resource. Next year, we're making the same payment. What I'm saying is, we're going to pay not only thousands in the next five years, but we're going to pay everybody who's got 5,000 bucks. We've got nothing to do with this. With regard to children of war and other social benefits. In the draft budget currently being finalized in the Cabinet of Ministers, all social payments for the following year will not be reduced to a penny, on the contrary, will be increased. I'm saying again, No social pay for the following year will be reduced, it will only be increased, because the economy is growing, the country is rising and will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u76	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u77	Once again, I want to say that the economy is rising and financial resources are emerging, and social standards will grow rapidly. Social standards will all be raised, and nothing will be reduced to a penny, yes, next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to include in the agenda of the daily project a bill to take into account in the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2013 is the amount of money required to make compensatory payments to investors and heirs of dead investors in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings. Registration number 11124. Please vote, please vote. Dear colleagues! Let's vote inclusion. Then we'll discuss, we'll go to another decision with you then, to an acceptable, more specifically, decision. [[11:27:33]] For-68 The decision is not taken. The factions? Please. The Party of Regions – 12, "BUT - "Patkashtina" – 0, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 4, communists – 25, "The People's Party" – 20, "Reforms for the Future" – 2, "non-factional – 5. Dear National Deputies! We need to look at a number of draft laws on treaty ratification. A draft law on the ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is being announced for consideration. Registration number 0269. The rapporteur is the first Deputy Minister of Economics and Coal Industry, Igor Popovic. The committee responsible is Head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Oleg Belarus. Dear colleagues! With regard to the bills that are included in the agenda, I would like to have all the necessary documents for these materials. So that we can get back to their consideration essentially after 16 hours. The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[11:28:59]] For 232 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u79	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Credit Agreement Act is presented between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law will allow for a 200-million-euro EBRD fund to finance the 21 hydro-agreed reconstruction, i.e. the modernisation of hydro-mechanical and electrical equipment at seven power stations: Kyivska GAES and GAES Kanivska, Kremenchuckka GAES, Dniprožinska GAES, Dnipro-1 and Dnipro-2. The total cost of the project is 638 million euros, including the EBRD loan – 200 million euros, the European Investment Bank – 200 million euros, and co-financing to the Ukrainian side – 238 million euros. The terms of the loan: the term of the loan – 12 years, two tranches, the debt period – 3 to 5 years, the interest rate, that's about 2.2 percent. [[EURobor – plus 1 percent]] Completion of the project – December 29, 2017. The project is a self-sustaining investment project. The return on the loan is entirely on account of the company Ukrhydroenergo, which is directly the project's contractor. Costs to repay and service the loan in full will be provided by the NCRE. In view of the above, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine is asking to support the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u81	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and recommends it before the Supreme Council adopts it. According to the report, the agreement provides for the granting to Ukraine of a 200 million euro premium for the modernisation of hydroelectric power plants and hydroaccumulative power plants of the public stock company Ukrhydroenergo. Ratification of the credit agreement and its implementation will create favourable conditions for modernizing Ukraine’s power plants, which will have positive effects on the national economy. According to Minfina, the ratification of this agreement does not require additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office supports the ratification of the agreement with certain procedural warnings. Please support the recommendation decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ratify the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, may we vote? I understand you've got a lot to talk about. Please sign in. See how many questions there are today to consider. Please sign in. Ivan Popescu. Then Oleg Zarubinsky. And then Stanislaw Arjevitin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u83	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'll just say the main thing for you to do very quickly. Notice that this is a very convenient loan. This 200 million is going to get us a loan that's going to be 2.2 percent on average. It's going to have a very positive impact on the development of our energy, and it's going to be a positive result in our economy, and so the Party of Regions is going to be in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u84	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Honourable Volodymyr Mihajlovich, honourable colleagues, the fact that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development lends 2.2 percent to Ukraine, as noted, with a 12-year deadline, is an indicator that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development trusts Ukraine's economic potential. I specifically want to say this because the bells and clicks about the possible defaults, collapses and so on, which we saw this morning, are just a exclamation of a pre-election character. And once again, the EBRD never lends credit to those from whom, from whom they doubt that they will return. And one more moment. The fact that the country finally started upgrading power plants that weren't repaired three or five years ago or 10 years ago is a positive step. Without that, it is impossible to count on real energy independence. And our power plant, it's seven large power plants, it's going to be able to increase electricity production, and that's a plus national economy. That's what we have to vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u86	Stanislaw Arzwethyn, please, the faction of "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u87	Indeed, this bill needs to be supported. It improves our country’s investment climate. The terms are really acceptable. Although there are many accounts, I personally have warnings about the commission that our nation pays. We could still fight a little more here. I think that the control of the European Bank for Reconstruction is much better than the control of the Cabinet of Ministers when it issues similar loans. But what I do have in mind is that there's going to be funding in the Ministry for the modernization of the hydroelectric power plant, if I ask the Ministry to remember that we still have the only hydroelectric power plant at Zakarpatta, called Tereble River GES, which is still in the disaster zone. In the 1950s, it was the third largest hydroelectric power plant in Ukraine. So there may also be costs for the reconstruction of this hydroelectric power plant. Please consider my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u88	Yes, honourable colleagues, vote on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[Registration number 0269]] Please vote. [[11:36:15.]] For 271 Decision taken. Yes, now, dear colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Project "Construction of 750 kW Zaporizka AES-Kahovska"]] [[Registration number 0271]] Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's conclusions are positive, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration are positive. Is there anything else to talk about? [[B in m in s a l in]] I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Financial Agreement between Ukraine and the European Investment Bank. [[Project "Construction of 750 kW Zaporizka AES-Kahovska"]] [[Registration number 0271]] Please vote. [[11:37:22]] For 267 The decision has been taken, or the Law has been adopted. Now, honourable colleagues, it is proposed that you consider the draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and the Protocol thereto. [[Registration number 0263]] All documents have been properly prepared. Positive conclusions from the Committee and the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Is there a warning? None. I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital and the Protocol thereto. [[Registration number 0263]] Please vote. [[11:38:33]] For 262 The law is passed. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in the Field of Quarantine Plants. Committee opinion: "Support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement, taking into account the warnings expressed." The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office: "The bill can be accepted with the comments and suggestions made." Is there a need to report and count? You don't? Do you have anything? I am voting on the proposal to approve the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Quarantine Cooperation." [[Registration number 0264]] Please vote. [[11:39:35]] For 256 Decision taken. I mean, the law's approved. Now, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of motor vehicles and ensuring their return. It's a sinister topic. It is proposed by the committee to ratify the treaty with the warnings of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is the view of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority. Is there no objection? I would like to vote on the approval of the Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement of the States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States in the fight against the theft of motor vehicles and ensuring their return. [[Registration number 0265]] Please vote. [[11:40:43]] For 268. Decision taken. Thank you. The law is passed. For reasons of vote, it's Yuri Carmazin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u89	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen, you have now passed a very serious law, and I would like you, Volodymyr Mikhailovich, to take a look at the warning given by the Scientific and Experimental Authority before signing. It stated that the warning given in the text should be waived, or that it should be edited in this way, and that article 13, paragraph 1, should be extended to Ukraine only in cases of imports into Ukraine of motor vehicles upon their return in accordance with this agreement. Nor will they apply to cases where the appropriate means of transport had previously been imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in violation of customs legislation, without payment of duties, excise duties, and other tax and tax charges, other taxes and compulsory payments, and the end of the quotation. Because of this, Your Honor Vladimir Mikhailovich, it's a bit of a stretch, or we should have applied this edition, or without warning, I'd like to take another look at the Legal Office and urge you to do this because there may be major problems in.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Now the proposal was to consider the President's proposals, because a number of bills have not yet been completed by committee meetings, if you don't mind, we have now passed bills, more specifically laws. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Establishment and Implementation of Contracts for Distribution of Produce is being announced for consideration. The proposal to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, please vote. Vote please! [[11:43:38]] For 225 Decision taken. The reporter is National Deputy Valérie Harlim. Who will be speaking from the committee? Hometic? There's Vitaly Hometic. Please give me the report. Yes, as the reporter prepares, please give it to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u91	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee reviewed the draft law of the People's Chamber of Parliament of Harlim amending the Tax Code on the conclusion and execution of distribution contracts. The project proposes to improve the specific rules of the Tax Code, which define the specific conditions for investor taxation when making distribution contracts. In particular, it is proposed to establish a more clear order of taxation for investors when a multilateral agreement is concluded when investors are offered several combined investment companies. In particular, it is proposed to clarify the order of registration and administration of taxes under multilateral contracts, to clarify the procedure for recognition and documentation mechanisms for investor costs when charging income tax and value added tax, to improve the administration and payment of charges for the use of stress, to deal with the distribution of products and the administration of taxes on the income of natural persons, and to make a single social contribution to the general social insurance obligation. The committee has considered the bill and recommends that it be accepted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u92	Thank you, sit down. Please sign up for this if you need to. Please state the names of the national MPs. Yeah, no one signed up for the show? Then I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation concerning the conclusion and implementation of the distribution agreements, registration number 11120. Please vote. [[11:46:15.]] For 236 Decision taken. Yes, Your Honorable People's Deputies, it is proposed that you consider the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on aircraft industry]] The committee suggests that the issue be dealt with in a simplified manner. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:46:53]] For 230 Decision taken. The reporter is Jaroslav Suhi and the co-reporter is Homutinnik. Vitaly Homutinnick will be in. Time's up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, this bill 10673 is purely technical. Here's the thing. Since 1.01.2012, the National Classification of Ukraine DK002010, a classification of economic activities that has changed the coding of economic activities, including for airlines in the aviation industry, which have preferences under paragraph 17 (g) of subsection 4: "Personality of corporate tax collection" of the Tax Code. An introduction to the classifier and a dedicated bill. The adoption of the bill will not require additional expenditure from the State budget, as it will be carried out within the framework of the existing Tax Code. But the adoption of this bill will contribute to further improvement of legislation, provide conditions for increased output of aircraft industry, growth of wages for enterprises and revenue for budgets and non-budgetary funds. I can tell you that in the top-twenties of the largest taxpayers in Ukraine, with a figure of 1 billion dollars, there's a PAT company called Motor City. So I think we're on time to support the aircraft industry. The bill itself consists of one line: "Change the name of the activity according to the classifyor." So, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, I propose to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u95	Dear Vladimir Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, we have considered the bill. Indeed, there is a point in taking into account the position of the national deputies of Boguslaev and Suhigo, but we still need to make a second reading of the revision of the legislation involved in the adoption of the new Customs Code. And this position is also reflected in the observation of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers that are proposing, and the scientific and scientific management. Therefore, we recommend that we accept only on the basis of the second plenary week and that we refine those observations that are in the Cabinet of Ministers and the Scientific and Scientific Administration of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please sign up if you need to. Names of the national MPs, please. Stanislaw Arzewittin's handing out the right to speak to Oleg Laszko, right? Please, Oleg Lazko. Then there'll be a smiley face.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u97	Thank you, Mr. Arjevitin. In principle, I personally support the bill, because the airplane industry should be Ukrainian, because you actually feel ashamed of the country when you're flying on the interior planes on the Embrairs, on the villages, on the boeings, and the hell knows what. Nowhere in the world, in America or in Europe, are you going to find them flying our planes, even though our planes are no worse. And that's why I support it. And then when he was looking at a bill on tax cuts for the airline industry, and now I'm going to support it. But I'd like, your honors, your respectable citizens, to draw your attention to another situation. First of all, the government. Unfortunately, in the government bed we don't see any of these darmoids, we go, you see, wages of 20,000 to get and pensions, in Azarov's 20,000 pensions a month. And the villagers, well, I meet people every day. Dear Volodymyr Mikhailovich! I'm talking to the chairman, Lithuania. You know, in your hometown, people bury potatoes, they don't choose! Because they're not comfortable picking it out and they have nowhere to sell it! Because there's a kilo of potatoes, 80 kilos! And that's why they're ten times cancer standing in the garden for six months to grow that potato and then leaving it to rot. Do these know our woe-governances, kerbs, darmoids, that the people of the kilo, a liter of milk of 1.60-1.80. Can't they sell?Oh, my God! And government officials buy a raspberries of 670 pounds [670 kg]! Let that raspberries choke you! How millions of Ukrainian citizens cannot feed their families, their children! They can't make a living! I eat people every day. My heart is bleeding.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u98	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u99	When a woman or a man comes to me and says, "I have three children. Tell me, how can I feed these three children for a thousand dollars of wages?" And what am I supposed to say to them?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. Gregory Smythuch, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u101	Dear National Deputies! Before criticizing the government that adopted Ukraine's economy 2.5 years ago in a difficult situation, some speakers, even though they would go, take villas and do some work, including in that farm or in the same field. And then say that I did something there and then criticize someone. That's for me. advice that is constantly one topic and that is being peddled. Now for the bill. Dear colleagues, you know that the plane building in our country, thank God, is not a broken complex in our country as a whole, and it's preserved and preserved, thanks, including Motor City and other factories that are operating and operating today. There's advanced technology, there's a multi-thousand collective. It is a matter of editorial interpretation of one norm or another. It doesn't affect any subsidies, any improvements or increases in taxes, it's purely editorial. Why consider it in a second reading and give a committee, the Supreme Council’s work. I propose that this bill be supported in general and put a dot in this terminology. There's nothing here anymore. What can we talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. At first glance, it really is a technical readjustment. But at the same time, there's a committee position so that we don't have to review the veto of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, the proposal to accept it as a basis and instruct the committee to prepare for the second reading by means of a reduced procedure. Is there no objection? That's why I'm voting on the first proposal to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code. [[on aircraft industry]] [[Registration number 10673]] Please vote. [[11:54:51]] For 256 Decision taken. And a second offer. Instruct the committee to prepare it for the second reading of the reduced procedure, that is, for the next meeting on October 2. Please vote. [[11:55:20]] For 259. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, as well as the suggestions made in Oleg Láska’s speech on milk. You know, the Cabinet of Ministers made a decision setting the minimum purchase price for milk, one minute, this decision was taken at the end of August, if anyone needs it, I can give it 2 bracelets 20 copies. It's small. But this is a certain step. Now the problem is how to get milk processors to take this milk. And with respect to potatoes. I've been digging potatoes this year, and I know what it is. The problem is that we need to protect our market. We have nowhere to go and we have potatoes, you know which countries they come from. In this regard, the Cabinet of Ministers must take a more forward position. I would like to prepare this information as a request for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And, dear colleagues, we may be able to consider another question. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Land Code for the acquisition of land ownership. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. [[11:56:41]] For 216 Decision taken. The head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Gregory Kaletnik, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u103	Dear Volodymira Mihajlovich, distinguished colleagues, the project is designed to establish, at the legislative level, the possibility of acquiring ownership of land and land of state and municipal property. We believe that the bill deserves support because the issues that are proposed to be addressed at the legislative level through amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code are normalizing the provisions of the Ukrainian Master Code and the Ukrainian Civil Code, which will have a positive impact on Ukraine's socio-economic development and improve the investment climate in the regions. The adoption and implementation of this project will contribute to an increase in the income of government and local budgets due to an increase in investments in the economy of Ukraine. As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Ukraine Code of Land. [[on the acquisition of ownership of land]] And for the rest of the time, Reverend Vladimir Mikhailovich, dear colleagues, I want to continue, in the near future, to continue the topic of milk, in the near future, to continue the topic of milk. In the near future, we will bring another milk law before the committee. We have to make sure that the milk is produced without intermediaries, because they increase the price for all Ukrainian consumers, at least by 3-3.5 bracelets. So if we support this bill that's going to be introduced, then we have a minimum price for purchasing into the population, and we don't raise the price for Ukrainian consumers 46 million. Because trade usually reacts in this way to any change in the price of raw materials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, is there a need? Please sign up. I meant the need to speak. Please, Lukyanova, "Our Ukraine" faction. Oleg Lazko, gives him the right to speak. Caplienne will be next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u105	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The question of land ownership is extremely important. Particularly for residents of villages, cities, residential areas, and residential areas. People today, I'm sorry, there's no representative here again, not a government representative, not a State Commission representative. I hope they hear the discussion. Today, to obtain a national act on land, a person has to pay for money, take turns in the field office from three in the morning, and travel five times to the State Department. And they're older people who don't have the ability to drive. And that's when buses don't go. How do they get to the State Commission? And wait years. I know that I have been approached by people, especially in the Ichnyan region of Bilmachivka, in the Bahmacht region, in other areas where people wait five years for government land and pay money, prepare all the documentation, and cannot get land on the ground. Many have died without waiting for the land to be formed. And now their offspring, their children, have to roll, they have to form these land acts. What a challenge it is to transform an inheritance! When people lived in one house for the rest of their lives, with their hands, with their money, they built this house, and then someone in the marriage died, and they have to pay thousands of dollars to transform this inheritance. That the house doesn't cost as much as it takes money from people! And they're going to have to go to B.T.A., in court, on notaries twenty times a year to reshape that inheritance. So I'm calling on the government to simplify the order of the issuing of acts to the ground, to set up a free inheritance. To be the same as before, he came to the yard, he copied the house, and you didn't go anywhere, you didn't do anything. Not like today -- thousands of money you have to pay for your house, for your land, for which you've lived your whole life. This is totally unfair!
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u106	Vladimir Caplienko, MP for the Future.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u107	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich! I'm not going to be a representative of the MP group, I'm going to be like Caplienne Volodymir on this issue. Why? Because on the first reading, the group made a decision on the faction to support this bill, I have a separate opinion. Look, there's no Ukrainian Land Market Act adopted today. If you remember, it was transferred to the seventh cadence, well, maybe given that other deputies will come, who will not block this bill as this MP group "For the Future" did, so as not to grant land abroad, including not to create land by an institution that produces brides, bread and pasta through production and processing, but simply goods. So this law, in my opinion, is my own, Chapleinka Volodymira's view, this is the beginning of the sale of land in Ukraine with a substitution of concepts and who can buy it from foreigners. We say yes, and Bully says we support the same thesis. Look, the concept of foreign legal persons is being introduced today." This is where joint ventures come in. So to date, we're actually opening up the right to alienate land that's called "forest" and fall under forest farming, water funds and so on. It's not just here, you know, we've been brazenly told that it's not just agricultural land. Well, respect, colleagues, there are more than 15 classifications that are still land of no agricultural purpose. And that's all that's around the village, near the city, that's where Ukrainian citizens today don't let them go to the river, to the forest, to collect the dye and stuff. I am not saying that this law will lead to an easy, fairly easy change of purpose. So, personally, I will not vote for this bill at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u108	Dear National Deputies, the discussion of the issue is concluded, and the Committee's proposal for adoption is based on the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code concerning the acquisition of ownership of land. [[Registration number 11128]] Please vote. [[12:03:31]] For 233 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 35 minutes. After the break, we will begin our consideration of the question, namely, first consider the question of the appointment and release of judges. Everyone please be in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u109	I'm putting the deputies in the session room, and we're going to continue our sessions. Let us consider the question of the election and release of judges. I invite you to report to the Head of the High Qualifying Commission of Judges Samsin Igor Leonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u110	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! According to part three of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine carried out a review of compliance by candidates for judges with the requirements of article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles 53, 64 of the Act. She also discussed the appeal of citizens, public organizations, businesses, institutions, organizations of all forms of property, public authorities, and local self - government authorities to the activities of candidates for judges who came to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine as a matter of urgency during the Commission’s consideration of the issue of recommending them to serve as judges. According to article 85, part one, part one, article 128 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 78 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, I introduce the application of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of judges of Ukraine and its decision to recommend candidates for judges on an indefinite basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u111	Yes, please, Igor Leonovich, let's rule 11218.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u112	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir District of Galatsevich Oksana Mikolayevna, Grigorus Natala Josephovna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv district of Kobzar Vladimir Marjanović, Alexienko Maria Julianovna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region of Immorial Natalia Alexiyevna, Sklarski Irina Volodymyrna, Sluzarenko Olga Valentinovna; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Glaucoma Olen Volodymyrna, Duras' Julia Volodymyrna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Wiczak Olen Olegovna, Kachmar Volodymyr Jaroslavovich; Odessa Administrative Court of Appeal Lukyanchuk Olga Viktorovna Sevastopol’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Dudkin Tetjan Mikolayevna
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u113	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, are there no comments on the candidates? None. I then put to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of judges on an indefinite basis, previously elected on an indefinite basis, to serve as judges. [[Registration number of Decree 11218]] Please vote. [[12:36:27]] For 243 Thank you. It's been decided. Draft order 11218-1. Please, Igor Leonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u114	To elect Barchuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, previously elected as Judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District. I have, by the way, information on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u115	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u116	On July 5, 2012, Barchuk was asked to be elected judge in connection with the announcement by the Ukrainian national deputy Gorbathuk Anatoly Alexiyovich of his election. But the state of affairs on September 17th of this year did not receive any requests from the Higher Qualifications Commission, applications for Barchuk's activities as Judge of the Loutsky District Court of Volin County. However, the Higher Qualifications Commission carried out an additional examination of the judge’s activities. And taking into account the results of the additional examination of the candidate, the Higher Qualifications Commission is not set up to prevent its selection.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u117	Yeah, that's a clear explanation. Is there no objection? I then put to the vote an offer to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to elect a judge. [[Registration number 11218-1]] To elect Barchuk, who was previously elected on an indefinite basis, to serve as the judge of the Court of Appeal of the Hmélník Region. Please vote. [[12:38:19]] For 255 Thank you. It's been decided. Draft decision 11218-2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u118	To elect judges who were previously elected on an open-ended basis as judges: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Volin district of Klok Oleg Mikolaiovich; the Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Digtyar Natalija Volodymyrovna, Kovalenko Nina Vasilovna, Słokenka Hennady Petrovich, Tkachenko Ilona Yuriyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kishkin, Irina Viktorovna, Suprun Marina Yuriovna; the Court of Appeal of the Zacarpathian district of Feier Ivan Stepanovich; the Court of Appeal of the Zaporozhye District of Tobacco Marina Sergiyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Tavartkiladze Alexandra Mesenović, Tolkachenko Alexander Alexandrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Kharkiv District of Savenka Mikola Evgeniovich; Ivanenko Tetjan Volodymyrna of the Žitomir Administrative Court of Appeal; The economic court of the Lviv district of Jurkevich Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u119	Yes, dear fellows, no comments were received. The only thing here is the letter from Leonid Fesenk, the Head of the Supreme Council: that according to the order of the Supreme Special Court on civil and criminal matters, I am on my way to the Russian Federation to participate in the World Congress. In view of the above, please postpone consideration of the matter. What is the opinion of the High Qualifying Commission?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u120	This should be decided by the Supreme Council, since it refers to the competence of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then let's probably call it Fesenka's name until we delete it. I'll put a motion to the vote. Who, in order to consider Fesenk's candidacy for election as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, please vote. [[12:40:45.]] For 262 I mean, Fesenka's name stays in the draft decree. Since no other remarks have been made, I am voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of judges previously elected on an indefinite basis as judges. [[Registration number 11218-2]] Please vote. [[12:41:19]] For 258. Thank you. Decision accepted. Dear colleagues, we have completed our consideration of the question of the election of judges. Let us welcome the chosen judges and wish them fruitful work in the field of protection of human rights and freedoms. [[Applause]] Let us now consider the question of the release of judges. Reported the head of the High Council of Justice, Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Supreme Council of Justice us in its meetings on 21 June, 11 July, 5 September this year, in accordance with paragraph 9 of Part Five, Article 126, Article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Article 100-109 of the Law on the Judiciary and Status of Judges, Article 31 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, reviewed the materials on the release of judges from office and general circumstances and decided to make appropriate submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All judges find out their will to do so. There was no adverse influence or coercion in their decision to release. Draft decision 11219.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u123	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u124	The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Singer Vasil Ivanovich, in connection with the achievement of 65 years; Dnipropetrov's Economic Court of Appeal, Shub Irina Konstantinovna, in connection with the application for resignation; Kyiv's Court of Appeal, Dzubko Petar Alexiyovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Kharkiv's Court of Appeal Babakov Ludmila Mikolayevna, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Ternopil district of Colomian Mikola Volodymyrovic, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Osipenka Mikhail Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Corestinian District Court of the Žitomir District of Skobelski Stepan Ivanovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The Petrova District Court of Kirovograd, Jurchenka Grigory Grigorovovich, in relation to the resignation; The railway district court of the city of Lvova Musievsky Eugenia Petrovich – in connection with the application for resignation; and the court-martial of Kyiv Kachan Nadija Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u125	No questions for the reporter? Muz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u126	I'd like that. This is Ternopil, Oreste Mutz. I would like to thank Mikola Volodymyrovich for his honest and conscientious work. Judges like him, in Ternopolska there are units, and it's a pity that he's leaving. But once again, from all the MPs, thank you, Mikolo Volodymyrovich, for your service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u127	Well, you can't thank the entire MP Corps because the entire MP Corps doesn't even know this judge. So you're more careful than all the MPs. I'm voting on the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number 11219]] Please vote. [[12:44:39]] For 257 Thank you. Decision accepted. Project 11219-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u128	The Higher Council of Justice proposes that the judges be dismissed: Ukraine's Supreme Special Court of Civil and Criminal Affairs, Pshonka Mikola Pavlovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Popov Aleksija Fedorovich, in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Rhineland District of Korobov Aleksandra Kuzmić, in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of Kyiv Kuzmina Anatolia Stepanović, in connection with the application for resignation; Dnipropetrov's Economic Court of Appeal Golovko Vladimir Grigorovitch – in connection with the application for discharge at his own request; The Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Muratov Jean Afanasyivna, in connection with the application for resignation; and the Artemov Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Grachev Volodymira Leonidovich, in connection with the application for resignation; Judge of the District Court of Zakarpat, Danjuk Vasil Vasilovic, in connection with the application for resignation; and the judge of the New Ukraine Regional Court of Kirovograd district of Ohremenk Viktor Anatoliyovich, in connection with the application for resignation. Please support the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u129	No comments were received. I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council's ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number 11219-1]] Please vote. [[12:46:14]] For 253 Thank you. It's been decided. Bill registration number. Rule 11219-2. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u130	The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, articles 27, 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes to release Sergey Sergiyyovich from office as judge of the District Court of Starobestiv in the Donetsk Region in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u131	No comments were received. I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council's decision to release the judge. [[Registration number 11219-2]] Please vote. [[12:47:10]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u133	Draft decision 11219-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u134	The Supreme Council of Justice, pursuant to article 126, part five, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 106 of the Law on the judiciary and the status of judges, articles 27, 32 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice, proposes to release Kovaluch Vasil Mikolaiovich from office as judge of the Bahmach District Court of Montenegro in connection with the acquisition of the legal force of the indictment against him. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u135	I'm putting to the vote a verdict on the dismissal of the judge. [[Registration number 11219-3]] Please vote. [[12:48:02]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, draft regulation 11219-4.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u136	Order for the release of Humane Natalia Mikolayovna from office of Judge of the Skolov District Court of the Lviv Region in connection with a violation of a judge’s oath. The judge is not in session. It's called for the first time.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u137	What suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u138	There's an offer to postpone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u139	There is a proposal to postpone, since there is no other motivation — in connection with the breach of an oath. Is there no objection? Let's put it down. Please, draft regulation 11219-5.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u140	The Supreme Council of Justice proposes that Dorchinec Svetlana Grigorovna be released from office as Judge of the Court of Appeal of Zacarpathia in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u141	I put to the vote the Order on the release of the judge in connection with the application for resignation. Please vote. [[12:49:11]] For 252 Thank you. Decision accepted. And Project Rule 11219-6.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u142	I would like to remind you, honourable national deputies, that the matter was being considered at the meeting of the High Commissioner. The Supreme Council. There were not enough votes. I remind you that this is the judge of the Susma District's Master Court and that he was asked to be released for alcohol abuse and that he could not do justice properly. When the decision was taken last time, the Supreme Council received 202 votes in favour of allowing it to work together. Now there are additional documents from the High Council of Justice that he continues to drink, sleeps in his office on his coat. And that's why the High Council of Justice has repeatedly filed a motion for dismissal of this judge for violating an oath. He's here now.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u143	Yes, please, Sidelnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! I've known Sergei Alexeievich of Miropolski for 10 years. All information that he had violated the Charter and acted improperly was not confirmed. In May, we considered this issue and removed it from the agenda, returning to the project that the Supreme Council of Justice had provided. There's a man left to work out, 14 years as a judge, 3 months to retire. Well, let's take a look at this man, let's listen to him, we can't let him go. Well, I know the people's feedback about him, he's a normal judge. Well, it looks like someone needs a seat to wait three months and take his place in this position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u145	Please, Sergey Alexiovich. What can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u146	On this point, I can only say that the 24th of May was, indeed, the subject of the pleasure of filing the Superior Council of Justice. The data that was given do not correspond to reality in most cases. I'm an ordinary person, I'm a flaw, it's clear. There's nothing like it. But after almost 14 years of being a judge, having absolutely no reprimand, having only thanks, having only letters, marks directly for normal work, and here at the end of my work, actually, this is the situation. I think we should probably take a closer look at this situation, because, in principle, it's man's destiny to leave work without a pension, when there's really three months left, well, it's up to you, of course, here. Those data that was definitely given here, for example, that I was absent at work when my signature was in the ledger, that I was actually at work at the time. When, for example, data is given that I am generally in a state of drunkenness, it is not supported at all. When there's data, for example, that there's some other violation, and there's no evidence, I don't know in this case how it can be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u147	Please log in if you want it in a minute from the factions. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u148	I have a question to report that he's drinking at work, sleeping and so on. Is there a supporting act on these facts? If there is one question, if there isn't, it's all the same across Ukraine, if there's even an act, I'd like to advise from such a high rostrum all over Ukraine to speak, you know. If he does not behave himself or violates the law and so forth. But what a drunkard to say to all of Ukraine. He probably has children, he has parents, and that word is the worst disgrace for this person. So there's a request for such a word I wouldn't use if I were the head of the High Council of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u149	Note is not in fact. You have to call things your names. How else can I put it, Paul Gnatovich? He's abusing alcohol.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u150	That's what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u151	Please, Sidelnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to address all of you. Let's do it humanely, because there's no evidence that he broke his oath, no. It's just a big deal. We discussed this issue in detail in May and look, after May, we invited this person back to our meeting. I think, well, three months will be endured by the man who may not be good there, maybe he's very good, but let him suffer. For three months, let the man finish his pension.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u153	Yes, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, are there documentary confirmations, acts of charges made to him by the Supreme Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u154	Acts came to the office of the High Council of Justice. I was personally informed about this and the Chief of Staff specializes in the court and the head of the court. I want to say that we made the right decision in May months when we didn't vote 202 deputies, there wasn't enough. But he calls for us to show him some kind of charity. But he didn't really think of himself an ounce. He continued to do what he had done before. Thus, the Superior Council of Justice made a decision and made a decision. And which the Supreme Council will accept, that's what we'll accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u155	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I'm voting on the motion to accept the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to release the judge. [[Registration number 11290-6]] Please vote. [[12:56:02]] For-0 The decision is not taken. Consider the following questions. Dear colleagues, it's good when we applaud. But do people applaud when they consider questions? We have completed our consideration of the election and release of judges. We continue to consider the questions in the first reading. We are considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. [[new editor]] Registration number 10686. I'm offering to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:56:57]] For 216 Supported. Reported the head of the State Agency for Science, Innovation and Information, Seminozhenko Vladimir Petrovich. Please be prepared by the Lucki Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the draft law that has now been announced was prepared for demand and according to the National Plan of Action for this year according to the Economic Reform Programme. And the main purpose of this law is to make science effective in terms of all the positive effects on Ukraine's economy. Even the latest figures announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos talk about the following. Ukraine's level of scientific development is in the top thirty in the world, and technology is in the transfer, although we're up 15 places, but not a very decent 109th place. Thus, it is the law that aims to remedy such a situation. What's important here is that there are better examples that are in the world that make more effective commercialization of science, namely the intended transfer to institutions and organizations where technology is being created, of property rights to technology. Under the State, only the right to use such technologies to provide state programmes and problems remains. Financial support for foreign patenting abroad. We know that a lot of technology, unfortunately, goes abroad because the authors don't have the funds, and so we're greatly weakening the coming to the state. Conditions for technology transfer entities are being simplified. Excluding unnecessary standards, let us say, for technology brokers to exist. Purchasing technology for government funds is also a very important sign of the country's civilisation. It's also there. competitiveness. It's just as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u157	Do it, Vladimir Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u158	So I would ask, given the current trends in this law, to support this law in the first reading. If there are any other changes, they may be included in the second reading. And this law, I think, unites the entire hall because it is aimed at the development of a competitive Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u159	Thank you. From the committee, Stepan Antonovich Davymuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u160	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of transfer of technology and the importance of reforming legal relations related to the use of technology and their commercialization. The legal mechanisms attached to the project remove certain gaps that exist in the current version of the Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. Vladimir Petrovich described the positive aspects of the project in detail. So I'm going to stop at some points that need to be corrected or added to the second reading. First, the incentives for the development of technology transfer, which were envisaged by a valid editor, have been removed. Without such support, we will be doomed to a certain backlog in the development of high technology and innovation. Secondly, it's not clearly defined by the mechanisms for transferring property rights to technologies created at the expense of the budget. Nor are the well - existing positive experiences of the European Union and the leading countries of the world taken into account. The committee came to the expert conclusions of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine. The conclusions generally support the adoption of the bill, taking into account the above comments. I propose to support the bill and accept it as a basis. I think the comments we've been making are working on preparing the bill for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u161	Thank you, Stepan Antonovich. Shall we discuss it? Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Smythech, Party of Regions. Behind him is Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u162	Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! I'm going to take the opportunity to indicate, in my opinion, a question that's very important to our country. Of course, technology transfer is a very important element in the global economic space in which we today integrate into the world. But I point out to you that in the last 22 years of independence, Ukraine and I have almost no product entered the external market, which has a high technological and high-efficiency component in the overall process, technology or technology. Unfortunately, we're having our mothers today, our mothers are having babies, the state is funding education, the state is funding higher education, then they're protecting the dissertation and then on the basis of the development, of our technological development, or at the University of Our Sciences or at the Academy of Sciences, these technologies, together with our specialists, are freely, freely flowing into Western countries. And unfortunately, the state in this respect is both the committee and the Academy of Sciences, and in general, we're doing absolutely nothing. In my opinion, this situation cannot continue in our country. Because if we don't stop what we do for someone, for other countries we train specialists, we train technology, and then we import them as ready-made products, then we'll never become a high-tech country. So, in my view, it is vital to change these questions, not just to change taxes or taxes, or to have one or the other subject have ownership of a particular development or process. We can't solve this problem in a complex way. If we don't put in some precautions that are complex, then we're going to continue to finance, train our specialists for foreign countries, for foreign companies, not for our manufacturer. So I am in favour of receiving it in the first reading, but in general I need to do something.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Hanustak Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u164	Jury's shame, Fatherland's. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, what we finally came to support science and determined that one of the priorities of this support should be a certain transfer of technology, that's very good. But, well, let's do it for the experience that is in the European Union and in the United States. This is serious enough legislation that provides for the interaction of all entities that provide output, that is, what is foreseen from the institution that prepares the personnel for research. It's not all there. So we see some kind of law, so weak, so small, so microscopic steps we're trying to solve the problem that's global. What I see in this law, that we definitely have to put on second reading, because the law itself is weak, it doesn't solve the problem of really complex science development, it doesn't solve the problem of breaking down this stale, conservative system of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, which we have inherited from the Soviet Union. So that's what I'd like to see in this law. I'd like to see government support mechanisms, funding mechanisms. Therefore, these mechanisms should be in the form of procedural issues, including on a calendar basis, in the budgetary process, roughly as we described when we adopted the Regional Development Fund Act. This bill does not exist. So we're going to depend again on whether the government is going to throw money into science at the last minute or not, because if this isn't resolved, it's going to be decided again.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's support the committee's proposal and take the basis of the draft Act amending the Law on State regulation of technology transfer activities. [[new editor]] [[Registration number 10686]] Please vote. [[13:07:34]] For 251 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to improve the activities of credit history bureaus. But the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tax and Customs Policy asked us to postpone consideration of the draft law in connection with further consultations and agreement on certain provisions of the bill. Do we have a discussion? Who's to postpone Bill 10292, please vote. [[13:08:32]] For 256 Decision taken. I'd like the committee to prepare for the next plenary week. We are considering a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On a system of guaranteeing the investments of natural persons" to improve the Fund's activities and establish a minimum limit on the amount of compensation for deposits. [[Registration number 10520]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:09:12]] For 219 Supported. Reported by the People’s Deputy, Poluniev Yuri Volodymyrovich. Yes, there's no report. Then, please, from the committee. Homutinnik, where? Please, Katerina Vaschuk, please, from the committee. Deputy Head of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues! The draft law is designed to increase the confidence of the population in the banking system and to enable the fund to effectively implement the provisions of the Act on a system of guaranteeing the contributions of individuals. You know, this is the foundation that's built. Not all mechanisms are available to quickly influence the situation. Thus, the law specifically provides for such specificities. Setting the minimum amount of the guaranteed amount of reimbursement to investors by their deposits is no less than 150,000 dollars each. Allowing the fund's administrative board to resize the guaranteed amount of investor compensation based on their deposits only to the extent of the increase. Expansion of the reasons why members of the fund's executive board are suspended. Allowing the fund, during the temporary administration of the insolvent bank, to pay the costs of such a bank’s activities. Establishing a ban on Fund staff from sharing information that is restricted to access, including bank secrecy. It's very important. Additional requirements for the authorized person of the fund for the temporary administration of the insolvent bank, or the liquidation of the bank. The bill is also foreshadowed.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u167	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u168	such rules of the Final and Transitional Regulations of the Law on the guarantee system of the contributions of natural persons. The Cabinet and the National Bank support the bill. The committee recommends the adoption of the bill in the first reading, or on the basis of it, it is useful for people and its people are waiting. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u169	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Please sign up. Yes, please, Shamemaker. After him, Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u170	Yuri Hanustzak, W.O.P. Well, first of all, people are waiting or not waiting, the government itself is somehow not very interested in accepting this project, because there is no report. I mean, I understand that the Supreme Council has already been called off, that Kabmin is no longer going to the meetings, and they've all gone to the polls. Well, I think it's a simple-to-just so abusive view of the work of the Supreme Council by authorized persons. Now there's one more thing. If you're setting this limit to 150,000, let's see if the person who put the money off on the black day, 150 thousand put off, that's a big enough amount. So this is the amount that is determined by those who have a lot of money that is not taxed. Because you know that interest on bank deposits is taxed at a meagre rate of deposits and dividends, too, which, in general, has raised a long time ago, and is going to cause a financial crisis in Ukraine, that's clearly true. Because the reason for the social revolutions at the beginning of the last century was precisely this injury. But look what's written. 150,000. If you step out of a specific amount, that means there should also be a specific total amount in this bill about the size to be set aside by banks to this fund. So these are bound figures, completely bound. So I suggested that these figures be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers, coming out of a market situation, not a specific amount. Because it's a signal for the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u171	Carpuk is handing over Arjevetine, please. Smudge is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u172	Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u173	Dear National Deputies! Remember when we passed a new version of the People's Deposit Guarantee Act I screamed from this rostrum, we don't have the right to deprive this fund of state status, you didn't support it, I mean, the left side of the hall and we took away the state institution's status fund. The other one. I said we don't have the right to give the ransom to the council to decide how much compensation we have to make, we have to write it down in the law. Thank God the author today is proposing that we have to determine at least 150,000 by law, and I share that view. But once again, until we return to this institution, Ukrainians will not believe as we would like. Next, I do not share the author's opinion that a member of the Supervisory Board of this institution is appointed as one of the Cabinet of Ministers, two of the National Bank, one of the Committee and the Managing Director. It is incumbent on him who appoints the delegate who calls back, not on the Council at its meeting that has accepted the expulsion of someone. I think that's the wrong norm. I don't share the rule that an authorized person with such functions should decide to sell a bad bank. I remind you that the Deposit Guarantee Fund, among other things, is now selling and buying banks. And one authorized person should make such a decision. I don't share that opinion. I share another opinion from the author: that the Guarantee Fund has the right to contact the Cabinet of Ministers or the National Bank for financial assistance, for credit, and we must establish this by law to whom else the Guarantee Fund should be addressed, because it has the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank to which they are accountable. Therefore, they should be legally responsible for the financial need to substantiate the fund. So I think the first time I read it, it was possible to adopt this bill. But once again, let me stress: let's do everything we can to make this institution a state institution to guarantee a population fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u174	George Smythuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u175	Dear National Deputies! Gregory Smythuch, Party of Regions, Volin. Well, I have a point to my colleague right away: it's not a government bill, it's a bill from our colleague with you. So here the reference to government decisions is not very tactful. It's practical. Now, as far as I'm concerned, we have a situation in Ukraine. My personal observations say as follows that the banking system is, you know, such a special body that lives outside the country's interests, outside the state, beyond the problems of our citizens. They live for themselves and for their own interests. So today the economy is in such a state that periodically banks are going to flip because they're going to pay too much interest, they're going to take credit. Not everyone can go back directly, and, of course, then collapses for those citizens who carry their savings, including pensions, saving on black, so to speak, a day in the banking system. Because the banking system is branched out, it's non-state. What does Mr. Arjevitin suggest? And he says, "Let's put it this way: commercial banks on their own, and the state will be responsible for them. And let's say it's a government body." How can you do that? If a person makes a donation, the bank should be responsible accordingly. Please tell me, did anyone borrow money or a loan from a bank without a 200 percent asset? But he'll never take it in his life. But the bank takes no responsibility. And in recent years, we remember, in 2008-2009, when our banks all fell down, almost everyone, and banks like Nadra, Gaz Bank, Kristytick and others, the state had to buy out, buy out debts, buy out the same. So again, these debts were placed on a simple taxpayer, a state. And so, until we figure out that our banks are working in the interests and under the control of the state, not on their own, they're going to abuse us, destroy our economy and destroy ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u176	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u177	So I'm proposing this law in the first reading to adopt, but the second reading of the committee in particular, to make sure there's not such, you know, a loophole for that gang that's in our banking system in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u178	He didn't mention you. I didn't mention it, I didn't hear it. Yes, please, Gordien. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u179	Sergei Gordijenko, faction of the Ukrainian Company, Poltavščina. Crisis qualities are not eliminated, so there are great threats. And I think it's appropriate to adopt such a bill. The faction will vote for him in the first reading. He needs serious work. But I would like to draw attention to another. It is not related to the subject of this bill. It's about the activities of credit unions. And we are currently delaying the adoption of a bill that would guarantee the same return to members of the credit unions of the funds they have lost, and to other problems that the authorities, the law enforcement authorities are delaying the investigation, the transfer to the courts, and that those participants who have invested in the credit unions, even though they would have received some kind of money from the realisation of the property. So this is a very good example. This is Luno's credit union. So, I think the government will hear us, and everyone, after all, is registered.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u180	Arjevitin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u181	Dear Mr. Smitsch! I would like to say that read legislation. Each bank institution pays a quarterly deposit guarantee to the Population Guarantee Fund from the date of its creation to the corresponding amount of statutory capital, from the number of funds involved. And these amounts are being replenished every quarter at the expense of the banking system. This is already about tens of billions of dollars. I wanted you to remember that. Secondly, when it comes to compensating already after that other problem bank, this problem bank is already in the Guarantee Fund. And it's the Guarantee Fund that has the right to sell this bank, and by the way, you can make good money on that. So I don't think it's going to be on the back of the budget, or at the expense of banks, it's going to solve some problems. I think that this, the fall in my side, is not fair and fair in terms of the legislation that regulates this problem today.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u182	Yes, thank you. The discussion is over. But show me a bank that doesn't care about itself but about its investors. Yeah, except for that. Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Guarantee Schemes for Individuals' Investments to improve the Fund's activities and to set a minimum limit on the amount of deposit compensation. [[Registration number 10520]] Please vote. [[13:23:08]] For 256 Thank you. Decision taken. We are considering a draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes of Ukraine to increase responsibility for violations of human honour, dignity and business reputation. [[Registration number 11013]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:23:45]] For 215 Supported. Reported by the national deputy, Zharavsky Vitaly Stanislavovich. To prepare Shemchuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, in preparing this bill, we have studied European experience. Most European countries have not only civil liability but also criminal responsibility, for example, in Britain -- fines of up to £10,000, in France -- 45,000 euros, in Germany for slander -- imprisonment for up to five years. These examples can be continued. Our bill introduces into the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Codes the notion of "trap," which consists of the deliberate dissemination of knowingly false information that dishonors the honour and dignity of another person or undermines his business reputation, provided that such actions cause serious consequences. The bill provides for criminal responsibility for slander. Let us be aware that slander has its consequences, which, at the expense of man and his family, are infinitely more severe than the individual crimes provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I'm asking you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u184	Thank you. From Shemchuk Committee Viktor Viktorovich. I can't see. Sign up for the discussion. Please, Smitch. After him is Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u185	Dear National Deputies! Clearly, our colleague, Mr. Zharavsky, asked the correct question. Because in recent times we have witnessed things that are not very, we will speak softly, fair or civilized in our society. Including in the media, especially on the Internet. Clearly, then, each individual should be responsible for certain actions that undermine the dignity of the individual as a whole when it comes to specific issues. But I went out to this rostrum to say another little bit. Let's talk about what we've undertaken, we've talked about this with the European Union recently. As far as we're concerned, we're decriminalizing our criminal code. The introduction of such an article or such a responsibility, in my view, is not entirely consistent with the civilized ways in which such a process is conducted. I would certainly suggest that you accept it in the first reading. But to decriminalize this article, to refer it to administrative responsibility. Or even if it is purely so that it is not criminalized, that people are not drawn to it, but that they answer the purely financial question. If a person slanders or demeans a person’s reputation or dignity, he should accordingly bear financial, administrative responsibility, not criminal responsibility. In the sense that a person may be deprived of his will. So I'd like to ask the author, including the committee on this question. And in the second reading, I'm going to settle for my wishes, including. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u186	Please, Andrew Pavlovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u187	Andrew Pavlovsky, faction of the politically imprisoned Yulia Timoshenko, "Fatherland." Please give the floor to the Deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u188	Tomenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, it's a sad situation, because we're on our way. What the Ukrainian State has determined is what values and principles we practice. In 2001, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the support of experts from the journalistic community, removed archaic concepts such as "nalep" and "image" from criminal legislation. And every year there is a person who, because of different circumstances, apparently subjective, tries to reintroduce them to the Criminal Code. My friends, if this rule comes up today, I think a third of journalists today are transplanting a large part of the opposition because some offended people can't get out of their office or home. I had been on trial for two years because he said he was ashamed to hear that I had told him that he, his deputies, and his relatives had stolen Kiev. And in order not to be a lawyer, lawyers who have convinced it to be absurd will be able to express socially meaningful information about what's going on in Kiev. By the way, Popov, on the first day he took office, Janukovich assigned him, gave me my figures that Chernewsky had stolen 70 billion dollars. If this was the norm, I and the journalists were in prison for saying what Chernewsky was doing in charge of the city. So we think it's an unprecedented case that, 11 years later, slander goes back to criminal legislation in Ukraine. It can't be slander -- it's a sign of civilization or not of civilization. So I'm surprised that the Committee on Freedom of Speech didn't consider it, and it's surprising that the Party of Regions is silent, that it's going back to archaic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u190	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, the draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Codes of Ukraine to increase the responsibility for violations of human honour, dignity and business reputation. [[Registration number 11013]] Please vote. [[13:30:27]] For 244 Thank you. The factions. Region Party - 188, BUT and Our Ukraine - 0, Communists - 25, People's Party - 19, Reforms - 1, non-fractional - 11. Here's the question: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code for the Improvement of Taxation in the Disposal of Vehicles. [[Registration number 11122]] There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. [[13:31:15]] For 217 The decision is supported. The committee reports to Hmotinnik Vitaly Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance, Banking, Tax and Customs Policy considered at its meeting a draft Act amending the Tax Code on the Improvement of Taxation in the Disposal of Vehicles, submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes to make the following changes. First. Establish the ability to estimate the value of light cars, motorcycles, mopeds when they are separated by natural persons, either from or from the average market value, the order of which is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers or from the valuation value determined by law. Why is this being done? In order to put a large market in the legal field for the second resell of means of transport. The following is proposed for this purpose. To cancel the congregation’s payment for compulsory state pension insurance at the second and subsequent registrations, which now amounts to 3 percent, and to install only the payment of that congregation at the first registration. As a compensator, it is proposed to set between 3 percent and 5 percent, depending on the cost of the car. Next. To reduce the amount of government duty for notarial recognition of travel contracts from 1 percent, which is now valid for the seller’s relatives and 5 percent for others, to 1 and 5 non-taxable minimum incomes for citizens. Such initiatives will really enable a huge market to be brought out of the shadows and allow for more freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u192	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u193	make contracts for secondary or subsequent sales of any means of transport. The committee has considered this bill and recommends that it be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u194	Thank you. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Smitch. After him, Suškević.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u195	Dear National Deputies! You know, one more time, I see what we're looking for, where to take taxes. We're not looking for ways to make money, how to create jobs, how to provide people's jobs, how to reduce deductions, how to reduce the number of unemployed. And we're looking for how these poor people have to pay again. Let's do this. A citizen bought a bicycle, a motorcycle, a moped, and a car. After a while, he wants to sell it. First, when he bought it, he paid all the taxes. When he made his money, he paid all his taxes. He's already made money, and that's his money. He bought a car, used it, then sold it. Should He Pay Again? I don't think he should pay those taxes. And if you pay, it's purely symbolic of document-making. He's already paid all the money. It's not the product that makes him profit. These are objects of personal use, the personal use of it and its family. What are we doing in this regard? At first glance, we do, so you know the possibility that it improves or reduces taxes or reduces the procedure. No, actually, we're letting the expert agencies determine the cost of that car, whether it's a market or a market or an estimate. Maybe it's going to be 3, or maybe it's going to give you 5 percent. I mean, how can you tell if a car was in an accident? And it's one year old, but once it's repaired, it's already worth a whole different price, which is, for example, that car that's less used. There are so many questions. But this is a question related to our citizens because, fortunately, citizens buy and sell cars. But this is not the object of their income that we plan to tax these people. This is the object of the money they have already used. Not enough that when they put them in a car, they don't depreciate for themselves, because they don't, they're in a personal sense. These companies are depreciating to pay less taxes. And citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u196	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u197	I would certainly not support this project and as an exception only, especially in the first reading. But once again, my colleagues, let's leave our citizens alone and not look for ways to raise money yet, they don't have the money.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u198	Suskhevich Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u199	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I want to look a little bit on the other side of this subject, a topic that we've been trying to reform. And I'm drawing attention to the expert conclusion of the scientific department. Attention is drawn to the fact that the draft does not really justify the purpose of the bill. I point out that I applied this bill to the Pension Fund, and the Pension Fund somehow didn't say that there was a loss of the Pension Fund to the Pension Fund. And it's interesting and strange that the effect on the Pension Fund was that they didn't say that 802 million dollars actually went into the Pension Fund in that direction in a year. And when I went to the auto inspection, the auto inspection didn't reveal at all how many cars were on the first and second registrations. So today, you know, there's lobbying, there's an elementary lobbying of those issues that relate to the sale of cars, and that the funds to the Pension Fund from this source that we're saying there's no funds in the Pension Fund just didn't come. It is estimated that the Committee's experts will lose the Pension Fund at the time of the introduction of this law 500 million dollars, which is the minimum. It's in conditions where we raised the retirement age for our women when we raised the retirement age for the disabled, and, you know, I want to say that in this situation it's a completely inappropriate bill from the point of view of the real pension reform, from the point of view of the fullness of the Pension Fund. I don't understand this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u200	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code in the first reading. [[on the improvement of taxation in the alienation of means of transport]] [[Registration number 11122, the bill's author is the President]] Please vote. [[13:39:35]] For 241 Decision taken. It was suggested that the committee decide on a shorter procedure for preparing the bill for second reading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please vote. [[13:40:02]] For 251 Copy that. Here we go to the question: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the National Preventive Mechanism. [[Bill 11073 registration number]] The author of the bill is the President. But there is a suggestion to consider a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[13:40:38]] For 213 Supported. The president made it so clear, logically, that we can be accepted here without a report. Reported the advisor to the President of Ukraine, Head of the General Directorate for Judicial Affairs, Presidential Administration of Ukraine, Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u201	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The need for a national preventive mechanism is due to Ukraine’s international obligations under an optional protocol to the anti - torture convention. The President of Ukraine proposes a bill proposing a national preventive mechanism, which is defined as a system of regular visits by an independent State authority to places of detention for the purpose of preventing torture and other cruel inhumane behaviour. At this point, detention is not limited to places of punishment or prior imprisonment but refers to all places that a person cannot leave at his own request. The scope of the National Preventive Mechanism applies to all places where a person is forced by law to comply with a decision by a court or an administrative body. Including, to such places, the President of Ukraine proposes that heliums of temporary detention, rooms for detained and delivered parts of internal affairs bodies; temporary residences of foreigners and stateless persons, rooms for the temporary detention of child soldiers, detention centres, detention facilities, criminal correctional institutions, receptionist centres, courtships, disciplined battalions, special courts for the maintenance of education, for the administrative rehabilitation of children; urban, district-line organs of the internal organs; The bill proposes the creation of a national preventive mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u202	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u203	On the basis of the Authorized of Human Rights. Last one. The authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine has the right to contract with relevant experts, experts, representatives of public organizations to involve them in the implementation of the functions of this mechanism. The number of persons the Ombudsman may involve in the implementation of these functions is unlimited. The human rights officer and the persons involved have the right to visit places of detention without prior warning, without obtaining permits, and without restrictions on the number of such visits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u204	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Oleg Alexanderovich Zarubinsky
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u205	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations at its meeting on 5 September 2012, reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights on the National Preventive Mechanism submitted by the President of Ukraine. The committee supported the initiative of the President of Ukraine to carry out the functions of the National Preventive Mechanism, which should be established in Ukraine to fulfil international obligations under the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading the Dignity, Behavior and Punishment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights. During the discussion, it was emphasized that the implementation of the proposed standards would create an additional mechanism of State and public control to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading human dignity. The creation of a human rights office at the Secretariat of the Central Council of Ukraine, as well as the involvement of representatives of the public in the performance of the functions of the National Preventive Mechanism, including regular visits to places where persons are forced to follow the decision of the court or administrative body, will enhance guarantees for the protection of human rights and freedoms in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of remarks to the bill, and in its general conclusion, in particular, stated: "A first-reading bill may be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions." As a result of the discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on a national preventive mechanism submitted by the President of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u206	Thank you. Shall we discuss it? Shall we? Sign up. Yes, Grivkowski does not insist. Bad doesn't insist. Please, Bondarenko Olena.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u207	Dear colleagues! Olena Bondarenko, "BUT is Fatherland." Ukraine certainly must fulfill its international obligations and obligations. But now there's some amazing practice: and before the European dance community, there's nothing you can do, of course, for yourself, give me an osmosis. In Britain, the preventive mechanism functions 18 institutions. In Ukraine, where only 2 percent of the sentences are justifiable, where thousands of institutions are outside their will, only the Authorized and not legitimately elected will be involved. The right to visit institutions without warning and without a report of the Code of Criminal Enforcement stipulates that the President, Prime Minister, has such a right to hold the National Council. [[Article 24]] During the detention of Julia Timoshenko and I, and my colleagues repeatedly and with a message, and without a message tried to visit the prisoner, but unsuccessfully. The bill does not have a procedure for implementing the Commissioner's mandate. Well, will he make the Authorized Proposals to the Authority or to the institutions that are supposed to respond to them, a reasoned written answer? That's how we get these motivated receipts, MPs, every day. What are the sanctions for those who do not take into account the Commissioner’s offer? None. This is the Human Rights Commissioner Karpachov, a priestess, now popular, who claimed to have beaten Julia Timoshenko in the Kachanov Colony. What? The major and his lieutenants work as they worked. In what way will the Authorized One determine the circle of experts and representatives of the public to visit the relevant institutions? What selective approach preventers in the process of involvement? So I would stress that the bill is a simple, random osmosis for the European community, followed by torture, humiliation, oppression of human rights and dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u208	Pedestrian, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u209	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Your Honor, we must accept this bill. And two reflections. The first thought. First of all, is this our international obligation? tying, we have to move forward, and we don't have to use it in the election campaign. And second moment. What is involved with specific people and those who are in places of forced detention. The adoption of this bill will enhance guarantees for the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms in Ukraine, create additional mechanisms for State and public control to prevent torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading persons who are in places of forced detention. Who can speak out against this?Oh, my God! Only one who does not want Ukraine to live up to its international obligations may make a statement. A party of regions will be in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u210	Question completed. I'm voting on the proposal to adopt a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights on a national preventive mechanism. Registration number 11073. Please vote. [[13:49:46]] For 257 Maybe we'll take it as a law? I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. We are considering a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on child protection, there is a proposal to consider a reduced procedure. [[Registration number 10625]] [[13:50:25]] For a hundred and Offer supported. Reported to Deputy First Minister of Social Policy Shambor Mikola Ivanovich. Prepared for Lukyanov
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill proposes to amend a number of laws in Ukraine. Especially the Family, Civil, Civil and Procedural Codes, Ukrainian Laws on Childhood and Other Laws. These changes propose granting the authority the right to appoint sole guardians or guardians of children who are with them in a family or family relationship. To determine that only one caregiver or caregiver can be assigned to a child. To improve the provisions of the Ukrainian Family Code, which regulates the rights of children who are brought up in foster homes and foster homes. Agree to the individual provisions of the Civil Procedure Code with those of the Family Code in the section on documents submitted to the adoption court. To determine that civil cases involving children or matters affecting a child’s rights should be dealt with by courts no more than monthly. To complete the mandate of the executive bodies of rural, rural, urban councils to deal with the improvement of housing and material and household conditions of orphans and children deprived of parental care. In addition, it is proposed that the names of the central executive authorities be included in accordance with the Presidential Decree on Optimization of the System of Central Executive Authorities. The adoption of the bill will improve the legal mechanisms for ensuring the rights of children in need of special protection by the State and improve the effectiveness of the executive and local self-government bodies in implementing State policies on children. I propose to adopt the law in the first reading, and if there is no objection, perhaps in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u212	Thank you. Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Lukyanov
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u213	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee at its meeting on September 4, 2012, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the protection of children, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill presented aims to raise the level of welfare for orphans and children deprived of parental care. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the State budget. The Committee on Justice recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. The main scientific and expert office made comments to the bill and concluded that, as a result of the first reading, the bill could be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending some of Ukraine’s legislation on child protection, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u214	Thank you. Are there speakers? You don't? Sign up. Please, Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u215	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw the attention of our fellow Ukrainian national deputies to a key word that was said to be the reporter, Mikola Ivanovich. The amendments to the Ukrainian Civil and Family Codes, which are proposed in this bill, suggest that we do what has been discussed in this session hall on more than one occasion and that we, honourable colleagues, receive with you constantly in letters and in addressing people. This is about the appointment of an orphan child or a child who has been deprived of parental care for a caregiver or a caregiver only in the number of persons who are part of a supportive family relationship assigned to only one caregiver and caregiver. But there is one aspect. I also support Mikla Ivanovich's proposal, this bill can be adopted in general, because it is not the first time in this session hall and it has not been the first time that his committee has improved. And one more thing. You see, the observations that are contained in the science and science department relate to what? In the future, these problems can certainly be improved. What? Today, our voters, whom we meet during the election race, welcome one of the main initiatives of President Viktor Yanukovic of Ukraine in changing the priorities of government policy for the smallest citizens of Ukraine. At the same time, people are asked to note that with each passing year, the problem of preschooling becomes more acute in kindergartens. For example, in the Communist district of Zaporozhye, there are more than one and a half thousand babies in turn. So, of course, this topic that we're going to start today, we're going to find out by law that it needs to be further improved and developed from the legislative provision of our main central line to support our small citizens. I also support the proposal, this bill is passed as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u216	Yes, thank you. From the faction, who's it gonna be? Taran-Terren, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u217	Dear colleagues, well, the problem is really very serious and I know this problem very deeply. Why? Because 10 years ago I wrote a book, I wrote a book about a summer boarding school, I lived there, I wrote about it. And the biggest tragedy is that we have a lot of orphans, we have a lot of orphans, but live parents. Let's say I tell you about the city of Kremenchuk. About the city of Cremenchuk, where, let's say, there's, like, a big car construction plant, but there's something about cars that they're buying, not in this flint factory, but they're buying Hyundai, it's huge corruption. And when people don't have a job, when there's nothing to feed their families and that's why they have this problem, and orphans with living parents, and because the state can't really provide them. I wish I could, Adam Ivanovich. Of course, obviously, we are voting in favour of this bill. But you have to look at this problem more broadly. This problem needs to be considered more widely in the context of what the authorities are doing today. Today’s authority does nothing for children, and that is why there can be no future. When we see that the wealth of billionaires has tripled, four times when we see it.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u218	Yes, thank you. Question completed. I put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on child protection. [[Registration number 10625]] Please vote. [[13:58:25]] For 265 Copy that. It was an offer to accept as a whole. Is there no objection? I'm voting on the proposal. Dear colleagues, we still have two laws that relate to each other. So let's please have a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the people's deputies on 28 October 2012 on ensuring the functioning of the real-time video surveillance system before the end of the electoral process and a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the people's deputies, to be considered simultaneously and by a simplified procedure. [[Bill No. 11091]] [[by the number 11104]] [[on the improvement of individual positions]] Please support this proposal. [[13:59:46]] For 211 Supported. Bill 11091 reports Logwinenko Aleksy Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much want to believe that we are all genuinely concerned about the transparency of parliamentary elections and that we are genuinely concerned that society recognises their results. And in this logic, I understand that there was a video surveillance system that should be fully operational from the beginning of the process to the end. But. There's one little but. As for one element, this is a direct online broadcast that every citizen of our country can see, which is interested in this problem, starting with political party members and citizens in general who are taking part in the election. This mode only works until the voices are calculated. But the greatest suspicions of the citizens, of the experts right before the calculation process. Because, as one classic once said, at least he's credited with "no matter how they vote, it's important what they think." So our proposal is to activate the direct broadcast mode of everything that's going on at the polling station by the time all the procedures are complete, i.e. the counting of votes and the pronunciation of the already resulting protocol. As far as the scientific expertise is concerned. The first article defines video surveillance as watching, recording, and broadcasting. So our proposal to remove certain moments, it's not a principle, it's all specified and it's all fixed. If it's plausible, then we're saying we're taking this note. I have an address for the Party of the Regions. I'm asking your colleagues to support you, because you probably are the political force that is most interested in having these elections recognised as legitimate not only by external observers.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u220	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u221	But it's our Ukrainian society. So thank you, and please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u222	Bill number 11104 represents Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u223	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! To your consideration is proposed Bill 11104, which introduces improvements to the individual provisions of the bill on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the national deputies, which will take place on 28 October 2012. I want to point out that this law was adopted on July 5th and it introduces a system of direct video surveillance, video recording, broadcasting and data storage during the vote and counting of votes in the election of the national MPs to be held. At the same time, with a view to improving the individual provisions of this law, I am invited to make a number of changes and additions. In particular, to establish that this law in the field of its application also determines the order of storage and use of video surveillance information. In addition, the use of the video surveillance system on the day of the vote and the counting of votes, in addition to those provided by law, is mandatory. There are also several other proposals that are technical and legal in nature, and the need to bring them into line with some other laws of Ukraine. And what I want to say is that the system, the system itself, has several components: this is observation, this is information generation, this is the record of this information. So from the beginning of the preparatory session on the district election board, the usual district, this system of work is already in the recording and broadcasting system. And during the counting of votes, the recording doesn't go off and on. And this system of writing and writing will be passed on to the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u224	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u225	save for a year and will be available for further use. Thank you. Please support this bill. And since the electoral process is fast-moving, I ask you to support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u226	Thank you. The committee on both bills is Demčišen Vasil Vasilovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u227	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues! The Committee on State Building and Local Self-Government, at its meeting at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has considered these bills carefully, with the participation of a member of the Central Electoral Commission, and has come to the conclusion that Bill 11104, which has just been presented by the author of the law, is our colleague Zabarsky, more comprehensively improving the status of the law. Because of this, the committee decided to reject the bill submitted by our colleagues under 11091 and to base and adopt the bill of our colleague Zabarski as a whole - 11104. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u228	Thank you. Let's sign up for the performance. Please, Chechetov. Behind him is Ganustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u229	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, well, judging from those constant presentations and the 28th anniversary of our political opponents, they have long said that they have lost, that they give us the palm of the primacy. It's all over their mouths, on all the channels, everywhere, and so on. But I think we would have won without them, that's understandable. But they're starting to unroll the second album: in part, well, elections can go on unfairly and so on. That doesn't suit us. As for the first, we agree with you. Yes, we will win, we will win beautifully, and without you, we will win, and with your help, of course, it will be a political knockout. But the question of the purity of elections is fundamental because it is not simply the result, but the political prestige of the country and the reputation of the country is at stake. That is why we wanted them to be as clean, as clear as possible, as objectively as possible, so that the mosquito would not cast the results of the elections, so that there would be no doubt about those who voted, as it turned out, that they voted in favour of some, as in 2004: they voted in favour of Yanukovic and Yushchenko became President. Thank God, and you've seen it, but you don't support Yuchenka now. So today you admitted to the mistake of winning Janukovic in 2004. And you were wrong to vote for Yushchenka. You're Yushchenka today, I don't know, Viktor Andreevich has been pushed further. And if there were Webcams in 2004, if we were to shoot in Western Ukraine and not allow dozens of passports to be thrown, it is said, several million ballot papers for those who left Ukraine would probably have been the result immediately, and Victor Fedorovic would have been the President. Therefore, it is the Webcams that will be installed under Zabarsky's law that they are losing their heads in Western Ukraine, and whether they should be floating passports by strangers, that is, there is an article. And I think the result will be fair, transparent, understandable to all.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u230	Please, Yuri Hanustak.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u231	Please give it to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u232	Sasa's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u233	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! National Deputy Sass, BUIT is Fatherland. I'm making a note. You have denied the opposition to speak, express your opinion and position on both bills, bringing them together to consider what is unacceptable. Next. As far as this is concerned. There's a billion dollars left, now we need to clean them. As far as we know, there's already a foreign company involved in this, which will serve this project and not for free. Next. As far as the Royal Natalia Bill is concerned. I'm not going to discuss it, it's dangerous, because there's a refusal in this bill to write a video that will make it impossible, if necessary, to sue the actions or omissions of election committees and to use all of these videos as evidence. As far as the Zabarsky People's Deputy Bill is concerned. A few moments. First. It's proposed to stop the live video at 20 hours. I would like to point out to Mr. Vladislav that at 20 o’clock the vote does not stop, but the station closes. And according to article 85, part 12, it turns out that a commission member closes the door and invites others who have not voted. And there could be hundreds of them in large polling stations. And that's why there's some kind of forgery. Next. What is involved in the technical inability of an image. is the voting room for a single normal commission in the recording system? Who makes the decision on this matter, no one knows. And the last. Nothing to be overlooked. The video surveillance system, established according to law, does not apply to the requirements of Ukrainian law. You're going to be shown "Well, the weather" in the video, and this is going to be a video of the area. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u234	Thank you. Sergey Volodymyrovich, thank you, your schedule is over. And I remind you of the 28th article of the Rules that says, "The right of the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council: "The chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council has the right to do so? [[paragraph 2]] bring together a number of related issues of the agenda." Moreover, the Supreme Council upheld this decision. And I'm sorry you're not looking. Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u235	Dear colleagues, I feel so strongly that those who actively defend the bill have not read it. But it made me even more angry that he wasn't read by the committee, because saying that these bills complement each other, and that's why they chose the one that solves this issue the most widely, is just spitting in the face. It's in the first bill to allow online broadcasting to count votes and set up voting summaries. There are two problems. The point is, you have to do the video. And the second is about what can't be said, when all election procedures are completed, the online broadcast is due to end. All electoral procedures are completed five days after the conclusion of the state-wide vote, that is, at the end of November. That's not right. As far as the second bill is concerned. Dear colleagues, what is it? The point is that the law has already been passed, it has been amended, and two fundamental amendments are made. First. Think about it. If there is no technology available for online broadcasting, there is video surveillance. Wait. They've spent a billion so that it's technically available at every online broadcast site. Out of a billion, 700 million have already been lost, and now it's decided that there's no technology available and that there's no video recording. Well, that's a conscience to have. And second of all, most of all. You can get a record, think about it, only by the decision of the Central Electoral Commission, and it can do so, it's her right. That's a year to go. We've got two days to appeal a decision to the DVC, then no one needs it in the dog's voice. Moreover, the Central Election Commission will selectively do so, as it now does. Dear fellows, don't resort to such shallow shrugs, it's just insolent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2012-09-18-m0.u236	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a basis in the first reading, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the national deputies on October 28th on ensuring the functioning of the video surveillance system in real-time mode until the end of the electoral process. [[Registration number 11091]] I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:14:23]] For-9 Not supported. It is on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the features of ensuring the openness, transparency and democracy of the election of the national deputies on 28 October. [[Registration number 11104]] Please vote. [[14:14:53]] For 256 Copy that. There is a suggestion to shorten the procedure for preparing for second reading. Please vote. [[14:15:15]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we're about to announce a recess. The only thing that came to us was the Committee on Science and Education. Given that we are only going to be working today, and we have a 20-number Supreme Council decree on the award of the annual Supreme Council of Ukraine Prize for Pedagogical Employees of General Vocational Technical, Preschool and Non-School Education Institutions. [[Registration number 11201]] Because on the first Sunday of October of the month, I would like to include this issue in the agenda and consider the draft Supreme Council Regulation at 11201. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:16:23]] For 245 Decision taken. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to ask the committees that will be ready to consider the issues that we've included in the agenda today in the first reading. And the second is the decision we just talked about. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
