ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20481	Mr. President, before we discuss this point, please pause five minutes on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20482	I can't give you 5, because I have to give you 10, that's minimum. Ten minutes off. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to work after this break. I'm asking the representative of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Antu Markov, to take his word for it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20484	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The reason I asked for a break on behalf of the HSS Club lies in the fact that we have before us a proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Under the Telecommunications Act, it was necessary to elect members of the Council. These members of the Council will decide on the third concession given for mobile telephony. Also before the plenary debate in view of the seriousness but also in view of Article 9(7). The telecommunications law that speaks of incompatibility and duty. Given that the parent board, the Committee on Selection and Appointment has not discussed this topic because it would have seen that there are material and legal reasons why I warn that it is better to temporarily give up the discussion and appointment of the president, vice president and council members because this can cause damage and harm to both the Republic of Croatia and the law and we all want to bring together and reach a third concessionary whose goal is actually to reduce the price of impulses and greater benefits for our citizens. Just in order for none of this to happen, I ask on behalf of the Club to consider the proposal that the election, the Selection and Appointing Committee, is once again made clear about it and to see where it is and what is not in line with Article 9(7) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Telecommunications Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20485	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament on the agenda yesterday set out the proposal for this Decision. The proposal for a Decision appointing the Council of Presidents, Vice-Presidents and members of the Council in accordance with the Telecommunications Act is authorised to submit only and exclusively to the Government. In accordance with Article 91 of the Treaty on The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall propose the selection, appointment and appointment, resolution and opposition of other officials elected or appointed by the Parliament if the law is not otherwise specified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Telecommunications stated by law that the sole authorising officer of this Council was the Government, the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, had no business basis to be involved in the discussion and giving of opinions or in support of the Government's proposal. I ask the Prime Minister, Minister of Bozidar Kalmet, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20486	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, this is a proposal to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency proposed by the Government after a public call has been called, which was not mandatory. So the government could appoint and propose 5 candidates without calling a public tender, however, the government opened a public tender, a relatively large number of candidates reported, and the government proposes these 5 candidates in the Croatian Parliament to adopt them. Everyone, all these candidates meet the conditions and none of these candidates are in conflict of interest since it was said here that they called for Article 9 and he's talking about it. I'll explain clearly why. The government suggests that for members of the Council the Croatian Telecommunications Agent is named Gaspar Gaćina as president, Miljenko Krshek here was a mistake, Krvšek, so not Krisjek but Krvisek as vice president, Juraj Mužina as a member, Ande Dodik as a member and Zentne Radovan as a member. You've got and you've got the resumes so I don't think there's any need for me to read the résumés. I'm just saying it's about people who are in the profession. Because you know it takes five years of professional experience, in this profession to be a member of the agency. And I agree with Mr. Markov that this is very important, one regulatory body that will have a very responsible job. So I'm holding that all of these people, you can see from the resume in that business for a long time, some are no longer like Radovan Zanter, like, I apologize to Gaspar Gacina who's retired. Some are in colleges, so mostly in jobs that are very important and important, which are a prerequisite for being a member at all. I don't think there's any need for me to speak chronology right now. It matters, and now is the best time to appoint these people for a few reasons. You know that a tender has been opened that the Telecommunications Council is working under the current law until the agency has opened a tender for the third operator and that the deadline for the application is 27. The 9th, then, is the opening of the offer. The deadline for the application is 7. The 9th, then, is the opening of the offer. And the decision will be made on 18. Ten. In order to prepare the competition itself, to adopt certain rules, and a whole series of regulations should be adopted and there is a need for an extensive arganisation of the former Council, i.e. still the current council, which will be decided to appoint an agency that will practically disappear. So it's a big deal. It is answered to all the questions referred to in the competition, and now it is time and time to appoint members of the Telecommunications Agency to start working immediately and 27 in the next 10 days. 9. open bids or make a decision then in about 3 weeks, it's about 18. Ten. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20487	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. SDP club, respected representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20488	The Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister. This morning, a meeting of the Committee on Elections and Appoints was held at 9:00 a.m. At that meeting of the Committee, this item was not included in the agenda. I warned at the end of the debate on the other points of the Committee president that it would be good for the Committee on Elections and Appoints to discuss such staff proposals coming from the Government. It is true what President Shakespeare says is the author of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the Committee for Selection and appointments. However, according to our Rules of Procedure, this does not prevent the Committee from discussing the Government's proposal and from taking its opinion on it. That opinion is true, God is not binding, but the final decision is made by this Assembly. And we think at the SDP Club that it would be much better if it were discussed in the Committee because this is about human resources. It's about people's names and names. That's why at this stage of the debate, and now, speaking on behalf of the Club, I'm not going to mention specific names. Because I don't want to question someone's expertise or someone's morality. Here we want to discuss in principle who to appoint to this important regulatory body. At least two, so two out of five proposed candidates come from HT. What were they in HT? One, who is also proposed to be president of this Council, was the assistant head of HT's administration. And before that, a member of the HT administration. Where he's doing it now in this résumé doesn't write. All it says is that on January 31st 2004, he stopped working at HT. We rightly wonder if he stopped working at HT in agreement with the government to be proposed as a member of this Council. The second was also run by the corporate sector of specific networks. We don't know where he's working right now, either, because that's not what his résumé says. The third proposed candidate works in Transmitters and Connections. This council will decide both the Transmitters and the Connections. Therefore, three out of five of our deep convictions could not be appointed to this council, not because they are not sufficiently expert ministers of calcium. We don't doubt that at all. It's because they're in a potential if not a real conflict of interest. What happened and what are the media reporting these days? “HT mobiles” and “VIP net” have concluded an interconnection agreement where they have several times increased prices. So when you're calling from one network to another, it's that, now that price has increased several times. Why did they do it? So, as much as possible, they make it more difficult for this third operator, which is now being awarded a concession to win the market. Because to them, it's an increase in prices neutrally. As much as he loses one, he loses the other. Or as much as he gets one that he gets the other. And for them, it's neutral. The move is exclusively directed against the third operator for which we call a concession. It is the right of this Council to annul such a decision. And who in this Council will decide that? Those who are directly interested. And we can expect what kind of decision they'll make. To undo it? They are located in a classic conflict between public interest, to enable a third operator to enter this market and private interest. They're good for the companies they come from and maybe they're still on the payroll because we don't see where they're working. How can they do that? They can guess in a few ways. First they say that this decision is perfectly fine, that there's no point in breaking it down, that there's no point in correcting it. I can do it by stalling the concessionaires. Because market saturation is achieved with 75% market presence, and two mobile phone operators are very close to that percentage. If this process of selecting a third concessionary is delayed, and the members of the Council may be affected by the third, there is nothing to report. Who's gonna get hurt? Who's gonna get hurt in that? The third concessionary will suffer so clearly. Less important. Citizens get hurt. Because we decided to bring in more service providers here in mobile and fixed phone. Why? So they can enter each other's conflict of competition. Why? To lower prices. Why? So citizens can make a cheaper phone call. That's the goal. That's the point. That's what they're trying to do. If we agree to this, it won't happen. The citizens will remain suspended. They still have to pay a higher price in this interconnection. What else is waiting for them? Which is waiting for the third operator, and we don't know directly the users of the service. We don't know what else can surprise us. But not us. Not the government. Citizens. That's why we think this appointment is very dangerous today. You know, you can't name a judge who's on the payroll of one of the clubs in a football game between Hajduk and Dinah. Because he's going to judge objectively. You can't. And that's suggested. That's what the government is proposing. The SDP Club therefore proposes to parliament, the parliamentary majority, to stop this appointment process. That the Parliament today makes a decision that this will not be decided today. We suggest that the government reconsider its decision. To reconsider his decision in light of what we object to. Not names and not expertise but “curriculum vitae” candidates, the fact that they come from interested groups. If this does not happen, however, if the Parliament decides today by the will of the parliamentary majority and nominates such a council, we announce in advance that we will apply to the Commission for a decision on conflict of interest because, under Article 2, paragraph 2 of the Committee of Officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, other behavioural powers appointed by the Croatian Parliament are also considered. Therefore, although these members of the Council are not state officials within the meaning of the Law on State officials, they are considered officials in the sense of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and may be decided by the Commission. The Commission will have a relatively easy task because it will have to take these CVs proposed by the Government here and the name of the institution and the activity, i.e. the Council's name and the activities of the Council, and I think it will be one of the shortest meetings of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to reach a conclusion. So as not to embarrass these people, so as not to appoint them today, and tomorrow, to be expelled from the Council for conflicts of interest in which the SDP Club is in fact proposing to the Parliament to stop, the government to consider and reconsider its decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20489	Thank you. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20490	You have set your position in your way and I can ask a different question whether your interest is to introduce a third operator and that our citizens get cheaper phone calls with mobile phones or not. I can see it that way. Because if it were your interest to bring it on, I didn't want to say it, I didn't want to talk about the whole chronology, then even last year, you'd have called the third operator's tender, and we'd come to a clean situation. We did a big job, so it wasn't done, it could have been done all last year. Before the election. Because the Telecommunications Act was passed in seven months last year. We've made a great deal of effort, both us and the Telecommunications Council, and we've brought over a dozen regulations, and we're going to bring in that rule that I also welcome to your inquiry when it was the Law amending the Telecommunications Act that I said we'd bring in that rule. And that's that it's only spent. Therefore, great effort has been made to prepare the competition, as it was not easy to make tender documents. Consulting here and college, and so that's one big job done. And there's an open competition of interest, and here we should get a third operator very soon, whose entry will really lead to a cheaper phone call with mobile phones. I said before that it should first take ten years of experience in this narrow profession, and then you and I, by amending the law, have reduced it to five years because you can't find people who understand themselves in this profession. You can't bring some rail expert to sit here or an expert for now, it's a narrow and specific waist. Of course, someone's always been working somewhere, which is close to what this regulatory body is going to do. But we can ask the question that means that a football player once played for Hajduk now moves to Dinamo that means he'll still be in Dinah's uniform and he'll play for Hajduk. I don't think that's true because jett about a professionalism and these people will be professionals in this body, it's important to say. This body isn't volunteering, this is a professional body where a working relationship is based, and if you work here, you can't work anywhere anymore. I don't want to talk politics. Someone was in one party, so he defended one idea, so he moved on to another and defended the exact opposite idea. So we can't put it that way. I said these people who are proposed meet all the conditions. They were working two at HTU one he left HTA seems to me in January and the other one left today. Because he signed up for the competition and it's normal for that moment if he's not working there anymore. So some conflict of interest. Professionally he worked there now will professionally work responsibly to this Assembly because the Parliament appoints him. So I think it's here that everything here is not thinking, but I'm sure at the end of the day that everything here is absolutely fine, that there's no conflict and that these people are going to be professionally doing their job, and I can tell you that we are and how we've been keeping an eye on who we're going to name in this very important regulatory body. And all in order, clearly, to cut down what I said at the beginning, opened up there and then select the third operator to satisfy all of us. Because in the end, it's what the public expects of us. So I think, Mr. President, it's my humble opinion that according to the Telecommunications Act and my people who prepared it with me. The Ministry and the Government, after all, that there is no reason not to discuss this today and not vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20491	In the name of the HNS PGS Club, the esteemed representative Antun Kavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20492	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I would go with what Mr. Minister offered me, when he said that a player named Dinam or Hajduk would go from one club to another club to play for that club. But this isn't about players. This is about judges. Here, it's the judge who determines how to play. And that judge, if he's on Dinah's payroll, then he's not going to judge Dinamo for Heiduk. But so much for that, I'd go back to the very beginning. Because I was active Croatian telecommunications before I came here. And I'm sorry that always, but literally every time you discuss telecommunications, not only about Croatian Telekom, the Croatian Telekom is no more. But when it comes to telecommunications, then there's always something going on underneath the grain. It's always dark, it's always about some secret decisions because none of us in HTU and neither of you gentlemen here have seen the first contract signed in the sale of shares, has seen the second contract signed in the sale of shares. None of us have seen that contract. And that's why it's happening now that 700 workers are leaving HTA, and that's why it's going to leave 1,500 workers. And the announcement is that 3500 workers are gone. That's the one about the transparency of the first contracts. And I'm not talking about when the council was being discussed, this agency that it was also brought to a closed session of the government. That it was secret too, that it was sudden and it was at the last minute. The question arises who is in the interest that everything about telecommunications is going undercover. We know who. Vladi. It's in the government's best interest not to get to a very rare operator. Why? Because the arrival of the third operator's prices on the market is dropping, citizens are paying less services, but also the government is picking up far less than it has picked up so far. No VAT, no profit. That's why telecommunications is treated this way. As for the Croatian Telecommunications Agency itself. It is created by the abolition of the Telecommunications Council. And the Croatian Telecommunications Service. The basic activities to be carried out by that agency shall be to make decisions on the granting of concessions and licences. Another is even more important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, oversees and regulates the prices and quality of telecommunications services. And what happens now. Now there are people entering that council who are directly related to my former firm with HT. And then we've got headlines in the paper, the third network picks Assistant Mudrinic. Then we have, 2U independent council of two HTA experts." Only five companies in the race. In the Council of Telecommunications of two former HTA employees. The first people of the new council arrive from the Croatian Telecom. Gentlemen, isn't it a clear example that you don't want to cut the price, and this deal between VIPA and HTA is actually a contract between VIPA and HTA where the work of interconnection in mobile networks raises the price for this job. It hurts the citizens directly. It directly affects the price of mobile phones. And who supports that? Normally, those who are directly interested. In this case, it's HT because he directly enters that agency. By when and what way will it be like that? Mr. Stazic mentions a possible conflict of interest. That's right. Me too. Not as a member of the committee, but as a member of the Croatian People's Party, I believe that we cannot vote, cast our votes for such a council, because I personally consider, reading Article 3. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest that officials should not be in any relation to addiction to persons who may influence their objectivity. They are, in any case, and must be unobstructed, just as I as a former HT employee cannot be objective. Because there's a lot of friends out there, and I know what kind of crap they're going through right now, and I can't be objective. That way, they won't be objective either. This could possibly be supported by the HNS and PGS, so the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin Alliance could only support it if the government said it was Deutsche Telekom's directive and that after 15 days we would no longer have to change and name others, because until now we've been working on the directives of others, and since we don't know what kind of contract was signed at the beginning, we suspect that this is Deutsche Telekom, and now the T that remained in Croatia, ordered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20493	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Milan Meden.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20494	Here, I'm correcting one in a series of incorrect allegations, just one quote. In fact, MP Kapraljevic said the government is not in the interest of selecting a third operator. I'm sure it's in the best interest, because that's why she called the competition, that's definitely why. It cannot be in her interest to make less money on VAT because further regulation or breaking of the duopolis will certainly make the network far greater penetration of users, and in addition, it is an even stronger contribution to the deregulation of the Croatian market in telecommunications.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20495	Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20496	Well, clearly, here's a fellow agent who said what I was about to say is, it's funny to say that this government is not in the interest of a third operator, and we've all done everything we can to bring in a third operator and in a month we'll have a third operator. We did everything absolutely. Nothing was done except that there was a Telecommunications Council that existed before. So, I think it's about talking that, I don't know what was secret. On 11 February, a public call was made for members of the Telecommunications Agency's Council. Afterwards, the government agreed at its session to issue a concession on February 25th, then a tender was opened, again publicly. It's publicly said that on 27.9. the opening of bids, that the 18.10th decision, so I think I really don't know what's secret about it and what's hiding around it. And now we're discussing members, potential members of the Agency. Secondly, when you mention that you were an HT employee and you mention a great deal of care for about 700 workers and it's okay that we care and care and all of us must care, but I must remind you that at 12 months, the former Supervisory Board and the former government have made such a decision to fire 700 workers from HT this year. Therefore, you could have and should have known that, because your colleagues made such a decision, not us. Also, when it comes to the contract you're talking about selling HT, 16% of HT was sold in 2001, so you could ask your party friends or friends from the coalition government, if you're really interested, and not tell me now that absolutely neither I nor this government took part in it. Neither in sales nor in making a decision to fire 700 workers, and I agree with you, who must care about all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20497	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20498	I'm correcting what happened when Mr. Secretary said he didn't know what was secret. And he said himself he didn't know any data, so from the contract, both the first and the second. As far as this other part is concerned, it's the same secret. So I didn't know that the SDP or my coalition government assigned 700 workers, and that was secret, but someone could tell us, because we were in protests and we could find out. And the other thing. You're talking about there's no secret and it won't, that the government isn't against the third operator. Why isn't a different composition proposed? Why don't there be two scientists, one from Telecommunications, two non-partisan or one from VIP, one from HT.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20499	My colleague, these are already different proposals and this no longer falls within the scope of incorrect allegations. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20500	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This is the Council of the Telecommunications Agency we're choosing for the duration of the contest for 3. GSM mobile phone operator. It could be resolved in law so that the old council works until the new council is formed, and then all these problems would not or should not be forced into the procedure of forming a new council. This was about a possible conflict of interest, a possible interest in HT having its own people in this Council. I'll tell you what the interest is. The Roland Berger study, which was made for the Croatian government, makes it crystal clear. If the 3rd GSM operator enters in another 5 years, the existing two operators, so HT and VIP will only earn $960 million. If the third operator doesn't come in, then HT and VIP will make $2 billion and $50 million. So if we have a 3rd HT operator and a VIP earning 960 million, we don't have a 3rd operator, HT and VIP earning 2 billion and 50 million. So HT and VIP have a billion reasons to have their own man on this committee, that is, in this Council. And that's the essence of the whole story. We can now elaborate what's in the privatisation contract, which are clauses, etc. We can remind you of the fact that in Slovenia 78% is cheaper phone calls, that by 40% it's cheaper calling from one mobile network to another or calling a fixed phone. We can be surprised in which way the very same price of calling from VIP to CRONET and from CRONET to VIP was quite similar. I don't think that's weird, though. Of course, the former council did well to report this to the Competition Protection Agency, but it is crystal clear if there are such strong financial reasons that the third operator does not enter, or if the third operator is already going to fail as soon as possible, then it is crystal clear that these big players who are actually Detusche Telekom or Austria's Mobilecoma, are not Croatian firms, but are actually two multinationals on the ground of Croatia, then it is clear that they must care that this third operator has as much difficult starting conditions for entry. Mr. Secretary says that's not enough reason for conflict of interest. It may not really be him because the assistant minister is Mrs Tatjana Holjevac, former VIP director, and that is quite normal and acceptable. You know, in Japan, that would be very difficult to accept, but unfortunately, it's the way it is. Therefore, this council, which should be completely independent of HT and VIP interference, should be a council to decide whether a third operator should be allowed to build towers of all needed 900 towers in Croatia, whether he should build towers only around Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka to use the HT and VIP network for a merger between his users, i.e. may use national rhoming. That should be judged, for example, by such a council. It should also be decided by the Council with the extent to which the interconnection price will go by that third operator to HT and VIP or what kind of interface, under which conditions it will connect to their network. For such a decision, man must indeed be without any thought and without any tails and his former career, and I am as well as my colleagues in the HSP Club very skeptical that these two guys who are here who have come from HT will be in this sense completely impartial and completely independent and so that we do not expose the Croatian state to potential foreign investors in mobile phone or in a future new fixed network that I consider here as Mr. Minister that we really need to give up this composition and look for people who are professional and have not worked in HT. I can't believe that in Croatia with the existing FER, with existing numerous cable TVs, with existing radio stations, with many people who are in small and medium entrepreneurship and have dealt with this business, with existing experts that we have at the institutes can't find five people who are not related to either VIP or HT. Well, there's nothing you can say to me. So, we just want it, nothing more, because then this competition will give full reliability, full impartiality and to the Croatian economy in telecommunications the necessary stability and third operator who will indeed survive. If a third operator enters and does not survive because the council has not done its part, some new third operator will find it difficult to enter and are cemented for centuries by dual HT and VIPs in fixed telephony. If a new fixed operator enters and this council fails to function, it also cements the monopoly in fixed telephony. These are the things we're talking about. It's behind this whole story about the composition of these people and trust me in this business is actually going around hundreds of millions of dollars a year. And of course there are hundreds of millions and billions of reasons for the composition to be such that it reflects the interests of one or other multinationals who are shaking in the telecommunications space of Croatia. We're not gonna let that happen in HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20501	The IDS Club is a respected representative of Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20502	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! The IDS will not and cannot support one such proposal, even more so we oppose the appointment of presidents, vice presidents and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency because it is in the opinion of the IDS a classic and direct conflict of interest. We have read of course through the media their virtuoso curricula where they have worked so far and in which way they can actually please the companies in which they worked and for the termination of work we have heard that they are employed at the agency and I assume that after the term of office in the agency will, of course, return to HT or Deutshe Telekom. I think it was rather inconclusive that a proposal like this came to our bench and we think that before this proposal came to our bench, the Committee of Conflict of Interest should have given its opinion. And I think only then could the MPs be able to show themselves and vote on whether a council like this is in conflict of interest, whether or not its members. I think that would then prove to be the seriousness of this House. I mean, when we waited so long for this committee that it could wait a little longer for the commission to be shown around it when the appointment committee didn't put it and its agenda. I, too, as counterpart Tonci Tadic, cannot believe that there are no people outside of HT who would be employed by the agency. We also know that there are huge species in telecommunications and that it's really a cramping struggle for survival and the two networks, and that's how it stays. Let's remember maybe a few months ago when it also didn't fit into the Law on Telecommunications Impulse Calculation. The minister here has made a public promise to make a rule about it, and today that rule has not yet come. Okay, I'm hoping as soon as possible. I will not, in fact, be polluted in the end, I will not engage in what is of interest here, whether someone's interest in how the government is manifested or the Parliament around this proposal, but I also think that the government and this Parliament should follow the law. And I would really like to pray that today we are not reading about these candidates, but rather that the Committee on Conflict of Interest is being shown before because we also know that in developed democracys, the agency is being created and formed to decide on things that are in doubt that, for example, in the government ministries of interest and in order to certainly advance in our democracy, I call on you not to vote on it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20503	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20504	I would just like to correct my colleague when she says that the people who are here today are going to return to their jobs at Hrvatski Telekom or perhaps in VIPnet. I want to say because I personally know these people that they worked in Croatian Telekom, you should probably know that as soon as you make such statements and it is perfectly normal and natural that just from a corporation like Croatian Telekom or VIPnet or maybe Siemens, or maybe Ericsson there is actually one core of people who are able to run the agency. I'm not saying it has to be them, but I'm sure these people I personally know are great experts. Here, so they're not going back to these jobs because they haven't worked in these companies in years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20505	Minister Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20506	I wouldn't want to repeat myself too much, but I'm really asking you. Well, you can't say in advance what's going to happen. It cannot be hypothetically suspected of people who have not yet been appointed just because they used to work or have been in the HT system. You can't hypothetically, I repeat, question people just because they work somewhere. Each of us used to work somewhere. Well, it doesn't mean that every one of us is in love where he doesn't work, and it doesn't mean that everyone works somewhere that he's in love with that company he's working with. It's just a matter of frequency, honesty, etc., etc. And we can't even call those people characters here after this pay phone. I think we have to be at least as correct, everyone's working somewhere and we've had more than just the market we had. Therefore, I do pray once again that there is no point in accusing anyone in advance of either the guilty or the debtor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20507	In the name of the HSS Club, the esteemed representative of Ante Markov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20508	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I firmly believe that the goal and task of this government is to introduce a third concessionary. I firmly believe that the desire of this government is for citizens to have cheaper impulses. I'm totally convinced of that. As I am fully convinced that the objective and function of the HT and VIP objectives is that this does not happen, there is nothing controversial. Everyone defends their interests. I am absolutely convinced that it is not easy for this government as well as other governments to deal with large and powerful multinational companies that have more ways to solve the matter. It's easy to deal with a citizen, a small businessman, a medium-sized entrepreneur, because by law and law enforcement, we can put him in order to function properly. Everywhere in the world is not a Croatian island in the sense that we here now pretend that this is not happening anywhere. That's how the world works, the United Nations works, that's how the Hague Court works, that's how it works. And what is the task of us here in this House to know as we certainly know and to try to resist it because it is easier for us than for the government. I know the last government, and she had her own people rooting for their own stuff. And this government has its own people rooting for their own things, that's what it's going to be. Nothing is different than anywhere in the world. But the task of this House is to make it difficult for them all, not to help them, but to make it difficult for them all. And to the government, to help them directly. Because like I said, I'm sure it's the government's interest that citizens have cheaper impulses. And that's exactly why it doesn't matter, the argument of whether someone quit today or yesterday. And imagine the President of the Parliament put yesterday to debate and this one hasn't quit yet. You'd be in conflict of interest. It's not today. Well, that's not the point. Watch out for Article 9(7) is completely clear. He gives us, this Parliament, the right to take responsibility without harming the government, but above all, I think that everyone here is certain that the objective of the third operator is to come. If we could get a guarantee here that a third operator would come, I would vote for the first five people in HT just to let that happen to the third operator. Because it might happen next, I'll hypothetically. To come to the third operator, to be a small satellite of one of the two who are and to function and not function without the market feeling it. I'd be for them all to propose, I'd put both hands in the air just to make it happen to lower the price of the pulse. I don't care who the third operator is, I don't care if it's right for HT or VIP, I don't care if these three or all five are the same as Minister Calmeta says, I'm curious that in a few months we have the price of the impulse 50% cheaper than we have today, that's all I'm interested in. And that's the only interest. And everything else is of no interest to me. If someone can guarantee that's what's gonna happen, then he'll be held accountable if that doesn't happen. To bear responsibility from all of us. Then I'm for every variant. But as far as the law itself is concerned, the law is clear, members of the Agency's Board and administrators cannot be civil officials, persons acting in the bodies of the political party or persons in a working relationship having influence or performing other tasks in the legal entities to which the provisions of this law apply. Now I will stop, the provisions of this Act apply both to HT and VIP and to the system of connections and communication and to a lot of things. So they're all inside and some of them haven't quit yet. A they carry out activities in the field of telecommunications can neither be owners or co-owners or members of their administrations. So we don't need to suspect like we don't, but we have a duty to enforce the law. If the law isn't good, then we have to change the law, but as long as the law is like this, there's no reason why we don't apply it, because we're all honestly convinced that we want the price of the impulse to go down, and what anybody's going to call themselves, so the citizens don't care what it's called, he wants 50% cheaper and he can get his kid, and already today the kids of 10 years want to have those cell phones, and then eventually his cell phone comes in more expensive than food, apartment and a lot more together. So let's do something for the citizens to feel it, and everything else isn't so important. Therefore, I call on you to return this once again to the Committee on Selection and designation which may, must and should and will know how to review this matter once again and that, either by a certain decision of this Parliament, it is to protect the citizens and also us as legislators so that it does not happen in good faith, but to a good extent, someone is playing our trust and that no reduction in the price of impulses happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20509	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Kresimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20510	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I find this debate surprising. I'd say she's a good example of bad behavior in which almost all the problems are being politicized to the extreme and it's forgotten that such an important decision is needed and can be spoken on the basis of certain professional elements. No one even mentioned the tender documentation. The government of the Republic of Croatia has made every assumption that the job is awarded to the third mobile operator for work in GSM 1800 and UNTS in the most correct, high-quality way. And that's true, if the government were going to do something else, the government wouldn't make little efforts to call a public tender, to prepare quality documentation contests, and I'm going to say something more about it, that in the making of these tender documents, the participation of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing and the best experts of that university in order for evolution or the choice of who gets the concession to be as correct, objective and professional as possible. And now, with all these efforts, the Government of the Republic of Croatia needs to be suspected, the government wants the government to be a duopol, so it's almost illogical with everything the government has done so far. The government has made it possible to create conditions like I said to call a tender, quality documentation, and a government with the right basis of the law recently adopted in this House must and has an obligation to appoint an agency. And the people sitting in that agency deserve trust. They have not yet begun to work or function, and they are already suspected, suspected of their decisions, suspected of their good intentions as if these people had no professional ethics, as if they had no professional responsibility for what they were learning, what they were doing, how they learned to think and make decisions, and it is unacceptable. This form of behavior is predicated by people who need to act immorally, that they will be in conflict of interest, and I must say that I know as a professor at that university some of these people and I can say that they are correct, responsible professionals. But most importantly, they will need to make a decision and they will need to explain that decision. It is not any decision that will be secret and it is not any decision that can be arbitrary and that can prefer someone without objective criteria which are part of the tender documentation. And these criteria in the tender documentation say among other things, and I will try to remember quickly, the most important criteria that the future bidder will have to, or future concessionaire is to satisfy the contribution to the development of the Croatian economy. And please nicely, now these people should make some absurd decision ignoring the fact that in the evaluation of these criteria, that criterion is worth 30%, it's being held to the most important. It will therefore be a really strong review not only of those who will make a decision but after a decision has been made by the professional, political and overall public to establish that the decision is correct or not correct. And why now before these people started working we already conclude that their work is in conflict of interest, that their decisions are in the interest of HT or VIP-net. There's really no reason for that. Among others in the tender documentation is required to be respected I think with 15% of the technical performance of the future concessionaire, its marketing strategy and financial strategy. Therefore, the tender documentation has placed the agency in a position to respect certain objective values, some objective criteria and some performances which, in addition to all those who will participate in this competition, will be able to satisfy a very small number of powers. I certainly hope and believe, like all of us, that such a Croatian consortium will appear without a foreign operator who with Croatian knowledge, Croatian skills should not take advantage of the opportunity and stress that there are several schools of electrical engineering and computer engineering in Croatia, that annually in these universities they will graduate over a thousand engineers and that these engineers in conditions that there really are no Croatian mobile operator because someone has said well there is no more Croatian telecoms and I agree that there is no one and the government will really have to do everything to enable the Croatian consortium, and we hope that such a consortium will be structured, that it works and that it will create all the conditions for such consortium to be the basis for the development of the Croatian economy in particular in this important technology sector. And here, I'd like to point out the following. We need to discuss it, but we need to discuss it responsibly. The doubts cannot be part of our daily behaviour that suspends all objective criteria that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established for this tender documentation and there is really no reason not to believe that this Croatian government has made all the prerequisites for granting concessions to a third mobile operator in the best possible way in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of Croatian citizens, the reduction of prices, the increase in service quality, and therefore the HDZ Club really supports without any reservations the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint these persons as future leaders, or members of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20511	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20512	A colleague, Ćosic, is appointed by the government as the Agency. Well, we're not talking about the Agency, we're talking about a board of agencies with five members. Secondly, it's not the government, it's the Parliament, which is why we're discussing it here because it's the Parliament. Because it's about our responsibility, not our government's responsibility. And if it were the government's responsibility, I wouldn't debate it, but tomorrow if this council didn't bring in a third operator who could survive, I'd call the government, and this is what they're going to call you and me, which is why we're not reducing the price of the pulse. Third, doubt must not be the foundation of our conduct. No doubt in this case must be the foundation of our conduct because there is a reasonable doubt that HT will act in its interest. So how else does it work than it does in its own interest, and his interest is profit, the greater profit we gain, and we would be minus intelligent if we didn't understand HT's interest and his interest is legitimate, but we have to prevent it, prevent its interest from being at the expense of the citizens. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20513	Okay. This was the obvious lapus of fellow Cosic. He thought the government proposed, not that the government appointed, because it was obvious that the government was proposing, and the Parliament appointed and deciding. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20514	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Both Mr. Minister and colleagues from HDZ wonders our fear and doubts that the process of appointment of members of the council will not go to the satisfaction of potential third-party users. And from Mr. Secretary's explanation, I pulled seven things, six that are just confirming the justification of fear. First, one council prepared a tender, conditions of competition, documentation, and the other one will make a choice in this same competition. It would be logical that the council that initiated the procedure and completed the procedure, because it could be said that the new council would say that the procedure that has been prepared so far is not in line with their views, opinions, interpretation of the rules and anything. Secondly, it is undeniable that there are people in the council's proposal that were, and you yourself said until yesterday one of them, in the working relationship of the same concessionary. Yesterday. So if the Parliament discussed this last night, it would be a classic conflict of interest. Why do I doubt it? How, what's the interest, what's the motive for someone with a possibly managerial contract from a concessionary's HT to go to the state service. I don't believe that here the government has made it possible to create conditions like I said to call a tender, quality documentation and government with the right basis of the law that was recently adopted in this House of Seas and has an obligation to appoint an agency. And the people sitting in that agency deserve trust. They have not yet begun to work or function, and they are already suspected, suspected of their decisions, suspected of their good intentions as if these people had no professional ethics, as if they had no professional responsibility for what they were learning, what they were doing, how they learned to think and make decisions, and it is unacceptable. This form of behavior is predicated by people who need to act immorally, that they will be in conflict of interest, and I must say that I know as a professor at that university some of these people and I can say that they are correct, responsible professionals. But most importantly, they will need to make a decision and they will need to explain that decision. It is not any decision that will be secret and it is not any decision that can be arbitrary and that can prefer someone without objective criteria which are part of the tender documentation. And these criteria in the tender documentation say among other things, and I will try to remember quickly, the most important criteria that the future bidder will have to, or future concessionaire is to satisfy the contribution to the development of the Croatian economy. And please nicely, now these people should make some absurd decision ignoring the fact that in the evaluation of these criteria, that criterion is worth 30%, it's being held to the most important. It will therefore be a really strong review not only of those who will make a decision but after a decision has been made by the professional, political and overall public to establish that the decision is correct or not correct. And why now before these people started working we already conclude that their work is in conflict of interest, that their decisions are in the interest of HT or VIP-net. There's really no reason for that. Among others in the tender documentation is required to be respected I think with 15% of the technical performance of the future concessionaire, its marketing strategy and financial strategy. Therefore, the tender documentation has placed the agency in a position to respect certain objective values, some objective criteria and some performances which, in addition to all those who will participate in this competition, will be able to satisfy a very small number of powers. I certainly hope and believe, like all of us, that such a Croatian consortium will appear without a foreign operator who with Croatian knowledge, Croatian skills should not take advantage of the opportunity and stress that there are several schools of electrical engineering and computer engineering in Croatia, that annually in these universities they will graduate over a thousand engineers and that these engineers in conditions that there really are no Croatian mobile operator because someone has said well there is no more Croatian telecoms and I agree that there is no one and the government will really have to do everything to enable the Croatian consortium, and we hope that such a consortium will be structured, that it works and that it will create all the conditions for such consortium to be the basis for the development of the Croatian economy in particular in this important technology sector. And here, I'd like to point out the following. We need to discuss it, but we need to discuss it responsibly. The doubts cannot be part of our daily behaviour that suspends all objective criteria that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has established for this tender documentation and there is really no reason not to believe that this Croatian government has made all the prerequisites for granting concessions to a third mobile operator in the best possible way in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of Croatian citizens, the reduction of prices, the increase in service quality, and therefore the HDZ Club really supports without any reservations the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint these persons as future leaders, or members of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20515	Thank you. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20516	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will speak here as a member of the Committee on Selection and Appointment. First of all, I would tell Mr. Minister that I'm not one of those people who has priors doubting everything and everyone, but I always have a positive approach until the clear arguments prove otherwise to me. I, Mr. Minister, do not question people, but rather the chosen methodology. It is clear to everyone and no one disputes that the Government is an official candidate for the Council. It is clear to everyone that we in the House are the ones who make the final decision. If the Parliament makes a final decision, isn't it logical that the greater number of our working bodies have the opportunity to discuss and prevent such discussions at the plenary session? This is what parliaments do in all countries of the world. On the working bodies, they solve 90% of what we unfortunately do here, and we wash dirty laundry unnecessarily. We, Mr. Stazic and I, this morning, asked Mr. Glavas to see if we could do it at the very session of the Selection and Appoint Committee, he said that our committee is certainly not in charge that we can discuss it, our opinion is not binding. However, I still think it would have been good if we had done it, because not only had Mr. Lesar just now said, as a member of the Parliament, he had no opportunity to know how many people had applied, he had no opportunity to see clearly the lives of the candidates reported or anything about them. But neither did we members of the Selection Committee, the appointment had the opportunity to gain insight into these basics, which I don't think is right. We didn't have any insight into that. And here I'd have to raise my hand to five people, because the government assures me that they're the best ones, by which criteria I don't know. Don't I even have the right to doubt that there may be someone equally good among other candidates, even if there is no conflict of interest, which I believe there is, even in that case I don't think it would be good if we went to this methodology for the Council. In this way, we've always, like, been opening doors for the past nine months, space of suspicions of conflicts and intrigues with some kind of political tape. I think we really need to start working on the working bodies much more and much better. Believe me, we would certainly prevent a great deal of these strangers from discussing, except for someone who doesn't care that this way, through political intrigues and conflicts, we're camouflaged by something else. And I allow there to be such a possibility. Our board lasted today, we had seven, eight points, it lasted just as many minutes. I believe that we have had the opportunity for another half hour to safely dedicate ourselves to this point and I would suggest that Mr. Glavas and all the other committee presidents that we really try to turn the working bodies into bodies that will clean up a lot of these unknowns and get rid of these unnecessary disputes in front of the Croatian audience at the plenary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20517	Thank you. 13.55 timed out to apply for a debate on this agenda point. Correction of an incorrect quote, Agent Branimir Glavas, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20518	And yet I have to do it again. There's a false picture of it coming out of our colleague's presentation that our committee is in charge of these appointments. Our board is not in charge, and we cannot discuss something that the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to and that Rules of Procedure have brought your former coalition authority. Therefore, if you had allowed such matters to be discussed in that term, we would have continued to discuss it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20519	Thank you very much. Minister of Bozidar Kalmeta, final exhibit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20520	With everything I've said, I want to repeat once again that there is no conflict of interest. The conflict of interest would be if certain people worked both in the company and were members of the Telecommunications Agency. This is a professional relationship. They can't if they're employees of the agency's council then it's their professional relationship and they can't have any other working relationship. Therefore, there is no and there can be no conflict of interest. And that someone once worked somewhere, so now we think that that's why he should be connected to that firm where he worked and for example that someone who's never worked in a company can't be connected to that company either. He certainly can. Therefore, I think that setting it up is not correct, and it is not particularly correct for people who have their whole lives, and these people are standing, doing their job properly, professionally and honestly. I am convinced that they will continue to do their job professionally, correctly and honestly. I would like to say once again that this government has really made a huge effort and this ministry and secretary of state here, which sits a huge job together with the university, the FER and the council, we have done one huge job to get to where we are today and we are practically at the entrance of a third operator in the Republic of Croatia and all the good things that will happen from the price downturn and beyond. I am convinced that this body will, when appointed, continue this work that started the council and that we will, in any case, very soon and very soon after the competition is completed, once the offers are opened, get this highly desired third operator in mobile phone in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u20521	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing at 15 o'clock, the vote on the debated agenda points in this part of the session. I'm asking MPs and MPs to be in the hall at 3:00 so they can, according to everything, make my vote in less than an hour. Proposal for a decision to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that, with 77 votes for and one abstention, a decision has been taken to appoint a president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Telecommunications Agency as proposed by the Government's decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23309	My colleagues and colleagues are the first to propose a decision on the resolution and election of the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The suggestion is to get rid of mr. Neven Jurica and Mr Gordan Jandrokovic is elected president of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23310	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? Thank you. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 78 votes. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23311	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is to relieve the member of the Foreign Policy Committee Mr. Gordan Jandroković and to elect Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić as a member of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23312	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the proposed decision has been reached unanimously with 78 votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23313	The next is the proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of presidents and members of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament. It is proposed that the president of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Gordan Jandroković, be relieved of the duties of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament Mr Dragutin Pukleš, and that Mr Dragutin Pukleš be elected as Chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament and that Mr Gordan Jandroković be elected as a member of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23314	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 78 votes to make the proposed decision. And I congratulate the chairman of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament on Mr Dragutin Pukleš's election. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23315	And also the last proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of members of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament. The proposal is to dismiss the responsibilities of the member of the Committee on European Integration of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Gordan Jandroković, and to elect Mr. Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23316	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the motion for a decision? Who's up for this proposal? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I determine that the decision was reached unanimously with 78 votes and congratulations and to Mr Gordan Jandrokovic in the election as chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm interrupting the session. On Wednesday, 22nd with the agenda according to the order set out in the agenda. Thank you very much. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Selection, Appointment and Administrative Affairs of Mr Branimir Glavas to explain the Committee's proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23318	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We would start with a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee. The selection and appointment committee proposes to the Croatian Parliament to elect Mr Zeljko Ledinski as a member of the Committee on Justice of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23319	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. I am voting on the proposal for this decision. Score. I find that Mr Zeljko Ledinski, a member of the Croatian Parliament's Justice Committee, has been elected by 94 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 3 against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23320	The Committee proposes a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament and also proposes to elect a representative of the HSS Mr Zeljko Ledinski for the Committee on Immigration of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23321	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find Mr. Zeljko Ledinski with 99 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 2 against being elected as a member of the Committee on Immigration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23322	The Committee proposes that MP Željko Ledinski be elected as a member of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23323	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. The vote. Score. I find that Mr. Zeljko Ledinski has been elected a member of the 102-voting Committee on Presentations and Appeals, 3 abstentions and 2 against. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23324	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the Committee of State Award for Sports, Franjo Bučar. For the President of the Committee on State Prizes of Sport, Franjo Bučar has proposed that the Committee be called Prof. Dr. Mato Bartoluci, for members of the Sports Society Committee, Franjo Bučar is proposed to be named: representative Danira Bilić, representative of Perica Bukić, Mr Ante Kostelic, representative of Lino Cervar, Mr Antun Vrdoljak, Mr Edo Peci, Mr Mile Dumančić and Mr Damir Vrbanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23325	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say my opinion here at the debate session on the proposed candidates for members of the Committee of State Award Sports, Franjo Bučar, today I also said at a re-invited session of the Committee on Elections and Appointments. The state sport award Franjo Bučar is the highest recognition that the Republic of Croatia grants to athletes and other natural persons who participate in the performance of sports activities and legal and physical persons who carry out sport activities. The State Prize can be awarded to other legal and natural persons responsible for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. The motion for members of this award committee shall be made by the Secretary of State. Unfortunately, at the Committee meeting, there was no mandated proposing we discussed this without the presence of a minister or someone from the Ministry of State. I will say what I said at the Committee's session, and I object that if members of the committees of this kind are already appointed, they will only be appointed from one party. Since several really good athletes and athletes sit in this Croatian Assembly, I have suggested that instead of one of these three members of the HDZ Club who I express my admiration for all that they have achieved and still achieve in sport, I propose a colleague of Biserka Perman, a member of the SDP Club, a top athlete. In a way, she would cover what's usually called "small sports." When I say under quotes little sports, it's actually those sports that don't have as much media presence as some other...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23326	Please pay attention to your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23327	I have prepared her résumé, and unfortunately at the Committee meeting, it was not accepted that Bisserka Perman be one of the proposed candidates for members of this committee, so I suggested that we try to send an explanation to the Minister in charge to ask him to reconsider his proposal once more. Furthermore, I object and see absolutely no reason for such a state committee to be two representatives of the Croatian Football Federation. I guess this shows that obviously this Croatia is a very important situation in football, and I guess in the future it will be more important for us to have the love life of our poor football players, which is why we need to be exactly two representatives of the Croatian Football Federation. Furthermore, another proposal I had, unfortunately I have to say, I'm extremely sorry it didn't pass. I suggested that instead of saying one of these members proposed in front of the Croatian Football Federation to propose Mr Ratko Kovacic, I also have his résumé, he is otherwise the president of the Croatian Sports Association of Disabilities, also our prominent paralympic, a participant in almost all previous Paralympic Games, he is also a member of the Executive Board of the European Paralympics Committee. So, sort of like a pandan to Mr. Antun Vrdoljak, who is like a proposal, as a member of the International Olympic Committee proposed to this Committee. I think that would further acknowledge all those athletes with disabilities who have won medals at the Paralympic Games recently in Athens to confirm that regardless of the health difficulties and disadvantages they have that they are able to fight to fight and decently play Croatia and I think that, in this way, by accepting this proposal, this Parliament would give them an additional recognition of what they do in the field of inclusion and disability in the world of sports. I therefore express my regret once again that none of these proposals have passed but perhaps through the debate if anyone else comes forward, so perhaps this Parliament will change this initial decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23328	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only briefly ask Mr. Chairman of the Committee of Mr. Glavas if he checked the following facts in Mr. Vrdoljak's biography. It means whether or not he checked whether there was something that could have been called a team on the Veslovenski landing that took place in Prague in 1948, Yugoslav or Croatian, because Mr. Vrdoljak claims to have been a member of such a team. And secondly, whether it fits the truth of this sentence that Mr. Vrdoljak wrote for himself in his third person, that's where he showed great organisational managemental abilities that otherwise resolve his industriousness. Does that suit the truth, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23330	The chairman of the board, Mr Branimir Glavas, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23331	Well, here I am, I'm just gonna look back on Mrs. Sobol's exposure. The truth is that Mrs Sobol made her proposals to the Committee on Selection and Appointment and these proposals were discussed. I, as chairman of the Committee, put them to the vote, they did not get the necessary majority to be translated as proposals. I express regret, but it is the price of democracy, where decisions are made by majority of votes and I must say that all these decisions have been made by an absolute majority of votes, therefore not relatively, but aspolutal. and that Ms Sobol's claim to propose two members of the Croatian Football Federation, two representatives of the Croatian Football Federation, that doesn't suit the fact. So it's just one of these proposed representatives of the Croatian Football Federation and it's about Mr. Damir Vrbanić. As for Mr. Vrdoljak's questions. That's where I should see it. Did you comment on what? The fourth paragraph? He has accepted the duties of president of the Organising Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23332	My colleagues and colleagues please, so why some, a few individuals. Don't throw away a colleague, you don't have the right to do that, because I understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23333	There he showed great organizational management abilities that otherwise resolve his industriousness. What's weird about that?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23334	It's okay, finish Branimir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23335	What's weird about that? The author of this résumé is not Mr. Vrdoljak, but his associates. His biographies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23336	Please conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23337	If there are no other remarks..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23338	There is. There was another remark.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23339	I mean, I don't know, I don't know. I'll check and let you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23340	Good, Mr. President of the Committee. Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23341	Well, fellow Chief, maybe I got it all wrong. But I can only conclude, then, that two members are on behalf of the Football Federation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23342	If you've mispronounced yourself, my colleague, it's not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23343	...because it's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23344	It's not a correction to an incorrect quote if you've misrepresented yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23345	Okay, but like this, since Mr. Glavas said it wasn't true that they were... The Croatian Football Federation, one acting as vice president of the Croatian Football Federation, and the other wrote that he was acting as a member of the Croatian Football Federation Assembly. Well, I'm sorry, maybe he didn't write any congregations, maybe County. But they both come from the world of football.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23346	Okay. Please colleagues and colleagues, according to, please, according to the Law on Sports of the President and eight members of this award, appoint the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of the Minister of Education and Sport. The election board, the appointments, appeared simply in one of the supporters of this decision, should not have at all. He didn't have to. It is a proposal by the minister according to the law and what the Croatian Parliament's proposal decides and discusses and makes the final decision. Please, you want to be colleagues and colleagues, I guess I have the right to speak and explain. For these suggestions presented by the respected representative Biserka Perman, Gordana Sobol for a respected colleague and representative Biserko Perman and Mr Ratko Kovacic. It is my proposal and initiative to go to the next session of the Assembly with an urgent amendment to the Sport Act and to increase the number of members of that committee, and to include others and to increase that number of persons, the number of board members. And now we have no choice but to vote on this proposal and please engage. Turn yourself in, please. The vote. Late. You're welcome to vote. My colleague is very happy, so I tell you, why should I deny you the right to debate? Not at all. Please vote. Score. I find that the motion for a decision has been accepted by 67 votes in favour, 8 abstentions and 29 against. Mr. President of the Committee on Elections, Appoint and Administrative Affairs, Branimir Glavas, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23347	The next proposal is for a decision to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association. The proposal is to appoint a parliamentary Stabilisation and Association Committee. For the president, Mr. Gordan Jandrokovic, for vice presidents Dr. Krešimir Cosic and Master of Neven Mimica. For the members, Frano Matušić, Mario Zubović, Kyo Bucan, Danira Bilić, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, Antun Vujic, Ivan Čehok, Vesna Pusić, Miroslav Rožić, Ante Markov, Valter Drandić and Dr Milorad Pupovac. As deputy members, Dr Drago Prgomet, Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, Carmela Caparin, Dr Petar Selem, Dr Marko Turić, Ivanka Roksandić, Marija Lugarić, Dr Ljubo Jurčić, Dr Mato Church, Dr Zlatko Kramarić, Dr Nikola Vuljanić, Mrs Ruža Tomašić, Master of Bozidar Pankretić, Mr Jozo Radoš and Mr. Jena Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23348	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23349	I'm just asking you to correct the mistake, I'm not a doctor of science, so that the mistake doesn't go any further and there's no repeat of the mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23350	Okay. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint a delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Committee for Stabilisation and Association. Please vote. Score. I find that this committee has been elected with 101 votes for and 3 abstentions without votes against the proposed composition. Here you go, Mr. Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23351	The next proposal for a committee is the Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the "Faust Vrancic" award committee. The proposal for a decision of the Committee on Selection and Designation would be to relieve the president of the "Faust Vrančić" award committee, Professor Leo Budin, of the duties of members of the "Faust Vrančić" award committee, Professor Mladen Franc, Professor Marin Hraste, graduate engineer Zvonimir Jakobović, graduate engineer Ivan Istić and Professor Branko Žezlin. In the Committee for the Award of the Faust Vrancic Award, it is proposed that they be appointed president of Prof. Dr. Leo Budin. You got the last one, you got it, under the benches you got to have. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Prof. Dr. Leo Budin. For the members of Prof. Dr. Igor Catic, Tomislav Horvat prof., Prof. Dr. Marin Hraste, mr. Zvonimir Jakobović, Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic. You have life-forms in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23352	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Please engage. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the "Faust Vrancic" award committee. Please vote. The result? I find that with 96 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 5 against the proposed decision. Mr Branimir Glavas, the chairman of the Board of Elections, the appointment and administrative work, please go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23353	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee today also held on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of members of the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest. I will briefly remind you that half a year ago, the Committee for Decision on the conflict of interest in the six members was appointed. There was no member selected at that time. He was not elected for reasons why opposition parties could not agree on the proposal, the joint proposal since the Croatian People's Party stood firm behind the proposal of its candidate and one of the six elected members was from the ranks of the Croatian People's Party. We then selected three members from the ranks of MPs and three members from the ranks of prominent experts, the dignitaries who covered the area, six members. And according to the law of the committee, four MPs are elected to the Committee of Conflict of Interest by neither, nor by the two representatives, to belong to the same political party. The only thing that regulates this is that it regulates that the president of the Committee for Conflict of Interest must necessarily be an advocate from the opposition ranks. Since the SDP did not agree then and withdrew the initial candidacy of Ms. Milanka Opacic. He did not agree to participate Mrs. Opacic in the election, so they withdrew the proposal. Since the Croatian Peasant Party did not make its proposal, the Croatian Party was offered rights 15 or a month ago as an opposition party to run for its member to complete the commission with seven members. The Croatian party of rights did not run its member, consultations and negotiations were conducted with some other parties and clubs to run for its seventh member of the commission. Given that one false image has been created in the public lately, a distorted image, a distorted idea of the work of the commission, that the ruling party as the most responsible political force in this Parliament is making it impossible for the work of this commission to be done by different political forces and obstructions, and, as I say on behalf of the HDZ Club, that it is not true that the Croatian Democratic Community as the most responsible political force and party in this parliament towards parliament and the Croatian electoral body has decided to engage in the maximum extent of how the commission teamed up and completes the assumptions that this commission can normally operate under the law and constitution, so that it is giving away the effects that Croatian citizens expect of this commission. And that is why we put that point on the agenda today precisely because this committee is responsible for proposing, for giving initiatives and certain human resources to this High House, which we participated in six months ago when we proposed that composition or current composition of the commission individually and by name. Since this commission of truth and fact and does not work and does not fall in a way, it does not work in the way that all of us together and all political parties and citizens of the Republic of Croatia expect the Board of Selection and appointment to be held responsible and obliged to re-analyze and propose certain adjustments to the composition of this committee to this House because this House will decide that this committee will be able to function as soon as possible. I beg you, don't throw it away, let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23354	Don't create it yourself. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]] The representative should be allowed to continue his or her presentation peacefully and uninterruptedly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23355	In this sense, the Committee on Selection and Designation today proposes to this House to accept the resignation of Mr. Prof. Dr. Željko Horvatić, who was sent to work in this commission in 2004 and that instead of Mr Zeljko Horvatić, a new member of this commission was elected in the ranks of prominent public employees in the person of Prof. Dr. Milan Ramljak. Then, as regards the completion of this commission with a seventh member of this committee who has not been elected since the initiative to other political opposition parties, this commission has been filled in with their proposal, since it was not a good will for these political parties to nominate and run their members, the Croatian Democratic Union is as the most responsible political party, since it has the highest mandate and conduct power in both this Parliament and the executive authority in the Republic of Croatia to initiate contacts and talks with individual representatives with the intention to engage them and involve them in the work of this commission. National minority representative Mr Nikola Mak accepted this candidacy, his candidacy and, according to the Croatian Democratic Community's proposal, at today's session of the Committee on Elections and Appointing, Mr Nikola Mak is an absolute majority of the votes in the Committee on Elections and Appointment nominated for the seventh member, therefore to the unfulfilled, that vacant seat of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. So, in the spirit of all this I'm telling you, the proposal is for a selection and appointment committee to be appointed as a member of the Committee for Decision-making on the conflict of interest from Mr. Nikola Mak's agenda. The third proposal for a third correction of the composition of this Committee is an initiative for the initiative of the Proposal for a Committee on Selection and Designation to be resolved by Mr Petar Marija Radelj. Yes, I'm sorry about your work on this committee. A member of this Committee shall be dismissed by Mr Peter Maria Radelj. In the material in front of you you have a memo Mr. Petar Marija Radelj referred to the Constitutional Court on the hands of the President of the Constitutional Court Mr. Petar Klaric. Where Mr. Petar Marija Radelj marked his letter since 27 September 2004, i.e. 25 written 27th, written at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, markings of official secret, very hasty and so on. In a memo you can see that Mr. Peatar Marija Radelj asks himself questions although he is a member of this Committee where he says whose member he is, if he exists at all, still the influence of politicians and so on. Now that I don't read it, I read it in the Committee session, you have it in front of you. You have them in front of you. The President of the Constitutional Court shall therefore refer the letter to which the President of the Constitutional Court is indicated. You also have this letter in front of you, referred to the President of the Parliament and the President and V/d to the President of the Committee, Mr Anton Kapraljevic. But because of the public I'll read it isn't long. The President of the Constitutional Court, Mr Petar Klaric, writes on 4 October 2004. Mr. President of the Parliament and Mr. Kavrljević as V/d of the Committee. Dear Mr. President, on September 27, 200.4 I received a letter from Mr. Peter Maria Radelj, a member of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Public Liaison. The letter is marked by the designation of official secret with an indication very hasty, in which Mr Radelj, as a member of the commission appointed for the implementation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties, informs me that the law fully considers it against the constitution. Which also confirms by the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia has so far submitted a proposal for an assessment of its constitutionality. AND a number of other submissions related to sublegal acts with respect to its implementation. The letter also shows that Mr Radelj has full insight into the state of property carded by public officials, which he is entitled to as a member of the Committee. It is doubtful, however, whether Mr Radelj has the right to freely without the knowledge and authority of the commission to send letters to state institutions with the same or similar content. The one referred to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is also the dubious authority of Mr. Radelja to arbitraryly determine what is the official secret. That is, to be used by that mark in its permits. Official secret, rush and so on. In accordance with the above, I consider it necessary for the competent authorities to carry out the procedure and determine whether Mr Radelj has exceeded the limits of power. Or did he abuse the powers of a member of the commission in a particular case. In addition, I submit to you a copy of Mr Radelj's memo and a copy of the documents proving that eight judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia handed over their property cards immediately after their appointment in 1999, in accordance with the relevant regulations that were in force at the time. So from this you see that because it was the reason why it was an initiativeal consideration on that committee. The Committee also concluded that the duties of a member of the committee for decision-making in the conflict of interest of Mr Petar Marija Radelj were resolved and that, from the order of distinguished employees, the appointment of Prof. Dr. Hello, Tomac. Who's Professor Dr. Hello, Tomac. You all know him. Yeah. All of you are familiar with, the prominent parliamentary representative in several terms, the proven Croatian Social Democrats. Proved patriotism, patriotism and participator of the Government of National Unity when Croatia was most difficult in 1992. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23356	Please, Mr. President. Stop for a moment. Mr. Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23357	Thank you very much. I'm done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23358	Ladies and fellow MPs, those MPs who hold the need to express their position with laughter, intrusions and the like hold it to be correct behaviour. You can't, Mr. Vujic, learn the basic rules, so you were the culture minister. You can't. The beginning of an incorrect allegation is the respected representative Nenad Szazic. Or we have a respected deputy vice president, Vesna Pusic, before the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23359	Thank you, Mr. President. The President of the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs has violated Article 91. A Rules of Procedure which regulates what is in his jurisdiction, in the jurisdiction of the Committee on behalf of which he reports here in Parliament. Where it is clear from the article that it is absolutely not in the jurisdiction to carry out the evaluations of the Committee's work, and.......................................................................................................... The speaker's off the phone. I'm begging you. The evaluations of the work of the Committee or of any body concerned. It is within the jurisdiction to propose resolutions and appointments and Parliament shall take the basis of reports by individual bodies appointed by parliament to carry out an evaluation of their quality or non-quality work. So I ask that this article be respected. And not subject to the challenge of doing what we're not invited to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23360	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Laws to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The Board of Members of the Committee shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Vice-Presidents and colleagues Vesna Pusic disagree with your assessment that the Rules of Procedure of Article 91 has been injured. For the purpose of Article 51(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Where a report or a proposal is submitted to the Assembly, the working body shall designate a rapporteur who, according to the conclusion of the working body, shall explain at the meeting the position or proposal of the working body on his own initiative or at the request of the Assembly. He, the chairman of the Committee on the Selection of Names and Administrative Affairs, Mr Glavas, explained the proposal of the Committee on Selection and Appointing by reading only the more detailed explanation of this proposal than it was written in writing. So it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Second, the correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Antun Vujic. Let me say it before that. A colleague of Nenad Stazic's. My colleague Vujic, I needed you when you came to me under Article 214 to give me a warning if you were intruding or otherwise distracting the speaker. I didn't want to, clearly I won't do it for you or anyone else. Because intruders are so common. Then don't react when I tell you in a nice way you're a cultural man, a culture minister, and don't break in. Be cultural. Nothing more. I didn't give you my word. [[/Intruder: Dr. Antun Vujić 'But now you've given me the word '']]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23361	But how, you said, now you're commenting on my future answer, so that I might say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23362	The President's statement cannot be answered according to the Rules of Procedure, so I would like to ask the respected representative, Nenad Stazic, to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23363	The incorrect claim made by Mr Glavas has been made or several times pinned that HDZ is the most responsible party in this House. In this House, all parties are responsible and, as such, they are very responsible for the assembly of the new commission, proposed by Mr Tadic in this commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23364	Please, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23365	They have proposed very responsible Mr Tadic, an esteemed member of the HSP party, and HDZ is not as the most responsible, but as the most numerous party in this House, it has refused out of pure fear that Mr Tadic is not in the commission. ... [[The intruder is unheard, the speaker is not on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23366	Nothing, nothing. I'm opening a debate. Please, did you have colleagues Antunovic correcting the incorrect allegations? You're not. Okay. Nice. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23367	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here today I, as acting president of the committee, should be happy, because what we've been saying has been fulfilled, so far from our first session, we've asked that the commission be complete, that we be 7 and that we can do quality work. But today, I can't possibly be happy. However, I am saddened by the way in which the commission is filled. First, I accidentally went to the Committee meeting today, and by accident I learned at that Committee session that he was a professor. Horvatic resigned. I also accidentally learned that Peter Maria Radelj is being resolved today. We didn't know any of the other things on the committee before. You'd be stuck on what's being replaced by Peter Radelj. We received a letter from the Constitutional Court saying that Peter Radelj may have violated his powers as a member of the commission. This, in any case, was to be one of the points of the commission. So we should have been on the committee like the Constitutional Court is asking us to discuss Mr. Peter Radelj's possible responsibility. We didn't discuss it. We have not even delivered such a report to the Appointment Committee, and that is the only way that Mr Peter Radelj could have been resolved. In this way, I find it inappropriate to do so first, and the second is ignored by the Commission. And get back to those observations on the commission's work. As acting president of the committee, I've advocated, I'll list five things here, and that's first of all, I insisted on law enforcement, and I wanted the commission to respect the law in any case and enforce the law. We couldn't do it. I also insisted on deadlines, I insisted that we, as a committee, respect the deadlines, means that we bring everything we need to bring, it's a rule, it's a form, everything we should have brought, I insisted that we follow the deadlines, but I also insisted that all those who are legally mandatory to insist and meet the deadlines, to meet their deadlines. That's not respected either. I have also asked for the firm position of the commission, meaning that this attitude does not change in some kind of party, political or not knowing what other interests, but rather being what we need to be, which our law defines, independent. And that's what hasn't happened since the beginning. We weren't in the budget, we weren't in all those memos that we sent to the government, the Parliament, the President of Parliament, the Prime Minister, the President of the Central State Office, all the secretaries by various state offices, we never got any answers. So we weren't independent. I also insisted on the public work. What the law says is that the commission must be public, i.e. that the commission's work must be public, because that's why we're formed, that's why the law has defined us. There was no such thing, however, at the last session of the commission, I was prevented from coming forward. But I don't mind, though, I'm glad. At least I got some rest. However, I would now return to the appointment of all these other members, and otherwise to return to our work itself. I was just preparing a report to the Parliament, because since we haven't been able to hold the last three committee sessions because of the lack of quorum, so I've already started writing the report and wanted to hand it over as acting president, I wanted to discuss the work of the commission, so you all can tell us what we did right and what we did wrong. I'm going to hand that report over to the press, so the public will assess whether we've done the right thing or done the wrong thing. ... Can I go any further? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I can. Because of all this, because of the way this was done today, i.e. The way it was proposed, we all know how it was proposed first, all clubs had the right to propose their candidate. This time HDZ didn't allow it, all clubs had the right to propose their external member, this time HDZ didn't allow it either. This time it's proposed something that I had no idea two candidates would be proposed today by an outside member. However, I see that some such as the Forum of Croatian Syllabics, they already knew in advance that they were mad about two candidates, I until I came to the Committee, I didn't even know it was two candidates. So some were far better informed about what would happen today and how it would happen today. I was trying to arrange a meeting with the President of the Parliament on behalf of the commission, with the Prime Minister. On two occasions, I wrote a letter to one and the other, asking that the entire commission be accepted and presented the problems we have and tried to solve them together, because the commission was not formed either because of HDZ, because of the HNS, because of the SDP, because of the HSS, or because of the HSP, but because of the Croatian state. Because through this commission, the Croatian state was supposed to send a picture to the world that it wants to deal with corruption, crime and other things, we are now sending a different picture. And because of all this, because of the way the elections are done, because of the way I propose that the HDZ gentlemen make your commission, make it a commission to be HDZ and the Croatian Syllabic Forum, and it will be a commission that will work as you wish, I cannot participate in such a commission. Mr. President, I would like to inform you this way that I am resigning as a member of the Committee, and tomorrow I will deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23368	On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23369	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club responsible now and like this, I don't know whether we now or not claim that a large farce directed by the ruling party or HDZ has happened again today. It was clear today when around 11 o'clock there was no information from the Committee's expert services on what it was about the agenda, and we didn't get any papers, when we were told the paper was still missing, it was clear that the HDZ President said that this Committee's committee for the prevention of conflicts of interest finally began to work and that, in fact, after we saw what the proposal for members of the Committee and we at the SDP Club can tell you, colleagues and colleagues from HDZ today if you vote this commission, you actually got the HDZ Commission and we'll wish you luck in your work. HDZ has decided to replace some members of the Committee. It is clear to us in the SDP that you can do this, regardless of us in the SDP or anyone else in the opposition, but surely today, neither tomorrow nor any other day will you be able to prevent us from speaking publicly about it. Today, a meeting of the Committee was proposed and adopted as a proposal from the Committee to resolve Professor Dr. Željko Horvatic and there may still be one detail important. Prof. Dr. Željko Horvatic made a request for resolution on 6 October and this Forum of Croatian Paper Syllabics is not visible on whose request is a proposal for Dr. Milan Ramljak directed another September 28th. So here's a little detail. After a letter from the President of the Constitutional Court was delivered to Mr Kapraljevic, acting president of the Commission, and this letter was sent to the President of the Constitutional Court for information. The day after that again, the famous Forum of Croatian Syllabics suggests that it is not seen from the paper again, perhaps there is a complete lack of documentation on whose request they propose as an expert external associate of Prof. Dr. We are getting information and a proposal today that our colleague, Nikola Mak, is proposed in this Committee in fact in a way that the HZD has actually avoided consulting and looking for and perhaps not to get proposals from clubs, but, in the words spoken here, the president of the Committee spoke with individual representatives, perhaps MPs, and then clearly came to the conclusion that a fellow representative from the ranks of the national minority, or from the ruling coalition, has been given the consent to be elected to this Committee. Given what members of this committee are now, when you look at whose proposal the external partners in this Committee have come to, it is definitely in the opinion of the SDP, the HDZ Commission and the ruling coalition. Let me also, on behalf of the SDP Club, express my disagreement and, in the end of the line, ask for an explanation, and today I am at the Committee's session to ask for this regularly, namely, we claim that the Committee on Selection and Designation and Administrative Affairs has actually violated today by discussing this subject, it has violated its Rules of Procedure and its powers. In fact, the Rules of Procedure, from what it says is the scope of the Committee's work on selection, appointment, and administrative affairs, does not result in the Committee's job to assess whether a member of a committee may have violated his or her powers tomorrow. So, on the basis of the letter from the President of the Constitutional Court, which he requested and I claim that the President of the Constitutional Court obviously knew the procedure, he asked the commission, from Mr Kapraljevic to shortly before the commission president's duties to give his explanation to see if there was a possible excess of power. No, the Committee has completely escaped and today, about 9 and 30 10 a.m., a committee meeting with this item on the agenda was convened, and today, in the SDP Club, we actually took place at a session of the Committee, I guess, in fact, a little investigative committee is trying to convince us of what we have already formed. Therefore, in the SDP, we believe that the Rules of Procedure have been broken, that what happened today within the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests has gone beyond the framework of the part-line work of the Committee on Selection, designation and administrative affairs, and that we believe that the proposal that came before us representatives on the one hand is neither legitimate nor legal. Once again, it was too obvious today that HDZ has made a decision, I will not say on behalf of the SDP Club overnight, because by the way and how the proposals were coming in front of the Croatian Syllabic Forum, we can now tell the crucible of the staff who are likely to be external associates in this Committee and perhaps tomorrow and in some other committees, so that HDZ has decided that this commission becomes almost unilateral, we at the SDP Club refuse to make politics and our relationship with opposition parties in the Assembly and on this proposal we do not want to manifest ourselves in this way today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23370	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23371	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since I'm here to mention again that we didn't want to give our candidate I have to repeat again, we are the first ones to be principled and consistent. and we don't want to participate in the arms and... We said for the first time that the law itself went into the wrong waters, that our good idea was divorced, and that the current law is not the law on preventing conflicts of interest, it's the law on... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23372	Just a moment, please don't disturb the speaker by leaving, but I suggest you listen to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23373	We also warned that even the commission's work is not what it should be. We know for ourselves that the commission was already due for the first six months of the report on its work. There have been many situations that the commission has not resolved and it is in our court, so the HSP Club Court has also become a committee to cover up conflicts of interest and this is what could worst happen in this whole well-imagined project by HSP, which unfortunately here has experienced a flood in this way as it continues to happen. So the only option is the right to return to the primal waters related to our proposal of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, and thus achieve consensus and to really fight both crime and against everything else. And you heard yourself out loud, we said that this list of 200 companies also has a farce and a laxative. And that we were against government officials participating in the monitoring committees from the beginning. We believe that unemployed young people are far better able to act on that duty, more educated, and not disrupting the laws of physics at the same time in more places. Therefore, we will not be able to make such a suggestion. We tried to save the situation in the third month, and we proposed Mr. Tonci Tadic, but then you were against it. The right side, HDZ was against it. And now you call us that and we're going to propose to someone again. Well, listen, we have our honesty and honor, so we can't sell it this simple, that's the difference. Now let's go to one part, I've never seen this one change for a board member's shift in the way it's being conducted. Namely, Peter Mary... imagine he dared stand here, he dared to ask the President of the Constitutional Court and members of the Constitutional Court why they did not carry out their legal obligation? So imagine that impertinent, he dared to ask such people. And what can they do? Ask for his shift. So where does this story lead? Watch out. We are, for formal reasons, but we are not discussing content, we need content, whether the President of the Constitutional Court and these members, whether they should have fulfilled the legal obligation, but whether we are discussing the form. Look, he dared ask him to, please sir, you members of the Constitutional Court to deliver his information. And look and immediately get rid of the improbable Stalinist. Change the man. And what is the message sent? If no one ever dared to ask for a government official... Constitutional Court, does he carry out his legal obligation? Imagine, we now have this situation for the formal reason of a bold one, so that he can ask the President of the Constitutional Court to carry out his obligation, and we have a situation where the guarantees of the Metzelah have been lost. And there no one thought to ask the President of the Parliament to write, where are these guarantees? Here's Ljubo Jurcic, he asked that. So this all leads to this variant that we can no longer participate in this situation and work and normal club HSP will leave this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23374	On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Josip Vresk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23375	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Namely, shortly before he was offered your statement, Mr. President, that neither the Rules of Procedure nor the law were broken. I need to say a few words about it. I will read to you two points from the letter of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia signed by the President of the Constitutional Court on 4 October 2004. I quote "it's twofold, however, whether Mr. Radelj has the right of self-awareness, etc." and another quote, "also a questionable authority of Mr. Radelj." The letter of the Constitutional Court was addressed to the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties on the hands of Mr Antun Kapraljevic. Indeed, it is the usual procedure for Mr Radelj to communicate with the Constitutional Court in this way, I must admit. But it is also the Constitutional Court itself, using the word "it is twofold," suggests the committee responsible, which is the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, to first discuss the issue of the conduct of a member of the Committee, and only afterwards to launch before the relevant parliamentary committee, i.e. Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, i.e. to initiate a procedure under that Committee, whether to resolve or simply not to initiate such a procedure. That's it. Since it is not about what we call regular appointments and regular resolutions of members of individual committees and committees, we believe that the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs could not or could not have been responsible for submitting such a proposal to the Croatian Parliament. The other thing is about Mr Horvatic, it's about resignation and it's his simple act. And secondly, these actions are increasingly contributing to the Commission's loss of authority, and this loses its legitimacy. In fact, it was a good parliamentary custom to ask parliamentary parties, committees to be asked by parliamentary parties, to provide them with a reasonable deadline within which they would propose their candidates, not party candidates, candidates from the ranks of parliamentarians as well as candidates who were not representatives, not members of parliament. I think this procedure has broken it. and finally I want to say that it's not good, given the importance of this commission, the importance of the jobs that it's going to do or should work to make this kind of thing so that I call it breaking over my knee and that's why the HSS Club won't be involved in deciding on this Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-17-0.u23376	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. At the proposal of the HDZ Club, I am voting on this proposal for a decision. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? An electronic vote shall not be taken into account if, on a proposal from the Club, a vote is requested by a raise of a hand. The president of the HDZ Club asked for a vote by raising his hand. ... I find that, with 73 votes for and 9 abstentions, a decision has been taken in the proposed form. [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]] I am concluding this session of the Parliament. The next one will be scheduled in the manner provided for by the Rules of Procedure and by law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work at the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space – Proposer Frano Piploić, first reading P.Z. No. 92 - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Hire of Business Space – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the HNS-PGS, first reading of P.Z. No. 93. In view of the two draft laws governing the same matter in accordance with Article 23(3), I propose to the Rules of Procedure a united debate with the fact that applicants can use an additional five minutes in the debate. Does the Parliament agree with that? Thank you. So I'd like Agent Fran Piplovic to explain the bill.
