ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19290	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am opening the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all, especially I welcome the Prime Minister, Mr Ivo Sanader, Vice-Presidents and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This session also begins with a regular session of the Croatian Parliament, which, according to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Rules of Procedure, begins on 15 September and ends on 15 December. I invite you to pay our respects at the beginning of the session to the homeland by performing the "Beautiful Our Homeland" anthem. - The performance of the anthem – ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to pay tribute to all the fallen Croatian defenders, all the palaces for freedom and independence of Croatia, all the victims of the war in the defense of the country. - A minute of silence - Thank them, glory. You received the records from the 7th, 8th and 9th session of the Croatian Parliament by mail. Any objections to the records? There isn't. I find that we have adopted the minutes of the 7th, 8th and 9th sessions in the text as you have received them. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. With the invitation to the session, you also received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. In the final draft agenda, I included 6 new points and this: 1. Report of the mandated immunity commission on the termination of the deputy representative, Mate Brletić, and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Frana Piplovic; 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with the Final Proposal for a Law, emergency procedure; 3. Proposal for a law on explosive substances, first reading, P.Z. No. 159; 4. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the patent law Treaty with the Final Proposal for the Law, P.Z.E., No. 161; 5. Proposal for a road transport law with final draft law, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 160; and, 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse, second reading, P.Z. No. 52. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt individual laws under emergency procedure is to be decided. The final draft agenda, as referred to in points 2 to 14, under points 39, under points 41 and 42, and in point 44, sets out the laws for which an emergency procedure is proposed. These are: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods by Inland Waterways Treaty, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 142; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation of income tax and property, with the Final Bill proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 144; 3. Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax by the Final Bill, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 150; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the prevention of a programme broadcast from stations outside the state area with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 145; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the Exchange of Programmes through television films, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 146; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the Protection of Television Programmes, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 147; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 148; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified information, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 152; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court with the Final Proposal for the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 154; 10. Proposal for a law on production, distribution and supply of heat energy, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 149; 11. Proposal for a law amending the Family Law with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 143. 12. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Construction and Fraction of the Central Authorities of the State Administration with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposed Law 153. 13. Proposal for a law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the Croatian Parliament's section with the Final Proposal for Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No 157. 14. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposed Law No 158. 15. Proposal for a law confirming the patent law treaty with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 161. 16. Proposal for a road transport law with the Final Bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 160. And 17. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship, with the Final Proposal for a Law, Proposing the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No 134. I note that the laws referred to in the final proposal of the Agenda, as referred to in points 5 to 8, under points 11, and under points 41 and 42, bear the label P.Z.E. the application of the emergency procedure in accordance with Article 161; We do not vote in our Rules of Procedure except that, with regard to one draft law, it is an objection to the agenda to be adopted under the urgent procedure that the Legislative Committee has put on the Proposal for a Law on Production, Distribution, the supply of heat with the proposal for a conclusion that the debate is conducted in the first reading rather than in the procedure provided for for in the emergency procedure, but we will make it clear when voting on certain items of the agenda where it is proposed to be included in the agenda according to the urgent procedure. In addition, we do not vote on this law because they are provided for by the PZE's emergency procedure, we do not vote, whether or not we will apply the emergency procedure. On the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a European Agreement on the Prevention of a programme broadcast from stations outside the state area, on a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a European Agreement on Exchanges by Television Films, on a Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a European Agreement on the Protection of Television Programmes, on a Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, on a Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty on Patent Law with the Final Proposal for a Law, and on a Proposal for a Law on Road Transport Act with the Final Proposal. Does any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? No, we'll take it in a row. The electronic voting system is checked, correct, we hope that all guarantees and all checks, testing and testing will yield results so that we can vote on the agenda already. All MPs and deputies received instructions in writing on how to use the electronic vote in the Great Council. I'd like the MPs to engage with the I.D. key. Interrupt on tape./... The Parliament, responsible with the professional services because yesterday night until late was checked the entire system, and now we have a problem again that the system is not working. The secretary will explain it to us now, unfortunately, we must move on in the way we vote so far. Secretary, please give an explanation and prepare yourself. Please, who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of the Budapest Convention on the Treaty on the Transport of Goods by Inland Waterways. Who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? I find that, unanimously in the agenda, this bill has been included in the emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation on income and property. Please, who's in? Thank you. Against? The counters, please score. I find that, unanimously with the 131st vote in the agenda, this bill has been laid down by an emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of the avoidance of income tax. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I also find that unanimously with the 131st vote and this law is determined by an emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified information. Who's for please? Thank you. Against? I find that, unanimously with 131 votes, this bill has been laid down in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law attesting to the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court. Who's in? Thank you. Against? I find that with 130 votes for unanimous and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Family Law? Thank you. Against? I find that with 110 votes for and 20 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration? Thank you. Against? I find that with 94 votes for and 36 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is it for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament? Thank you. Against? I find that with 93 votes in favour, 36 against and this bill is included in the agenda by emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts? Thank you. Against? I find that with 129 votes for, unanimously included this bill by emergency procedure. Who is involved in the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Attorneyship proposed by the SDP Representatives Club? Thank you. Against? I find that 45 MPs voted in favour of the emergency procedure against 84. So, the law goes into regular procedure. And now we have this objection from the Legislative Committee to propose that the Law on production, distribution and supply of thermal energy be adopted by emergency procedure, it is already proposed that the debate be adopted by emergency procedure. Minister Vukelic, please be aware of this proposal from the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19291	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19292	Thank you very much. So we don't have to vote. This bill goes in a regular procedure. There have been no written objections to the agenda that I have proposed with the call for a session, and this agenda is in accordance with Article 203(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Objection can now be made only to those points which did not contain the draft agenda, accompanied by a call for a session. Under point 1, the Mandate-Immunity Commission report was included under point 40 of the Proposed Law on Explosive Substances, under point 41 of the Proposed Law on the Confirmation of the patent law, under point 42 of the Proposal of the Law on Transport in Road Transport and under point 42 of the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the control of drug abuse was incorporated. Does any of the representatives have an objection to those points which did not contain a draft agenda with a call for a session, or to these points of these six that I have read, which I have included in the final draft agenda. Representative Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19293	On behalf of the HSP Club, we ask that the information which is known and delivered under the European Convention on Security be removed from these two reports in order to be discussed at the Plenary Session, is this information which is already known and delivered in the framework of the European Convention on Security, and I think it would be the best way to put this point at today's session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, to remove the level of secrecy, not just to discuss the new Head of Intelligence, and that we didn't even know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19294	Thank you very much. With regard to the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament which ordered the Government to submit on your proposal, the Club of HSP Representatives, the Report on the implementation of the Defence Plan of the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of the defence preparations and the Proposal for an annual report on the preparedness of the defence system, on the implementation of the Staff Policy and the overall state of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. The defence ministry and the government have put a "military secret" mark under the law. Only one who has signalled and marked in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Information Signatures, in this case "military Secrets", can take it off. I brought those reports back to the government to take down the "war secrets". The government got that, and I hope that in the time until it comes to a factual debate and delivers such a proposal, because something that is "military secret" or "state secret" can not be discussed in an open, public plenary session, and is not foreseen under the Constitution to be discussed only at a session of a committee that may have a closed character. So as soon as the government makes this decision, that point will also be discussed at an open plenary session. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19295	The Prime Minister and the Minister are here, I think I can say right now, because this way you're saying it now means that maybe they won't be discussing it right now in this session, and it should be debated at the conclusion of this House at 6 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19296	This item is included in the agenda. It will be discussed, in the meantime we will get a reasoned response from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19297	But when?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19298	As soon as we get a reasoned response from the government, that point is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19299	Indeed, we have already concluded, the conclusion was in June to argue and we have not debated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19300	No, the conclusion was that it was delivered within 60 days. As soon as that gets there, the item is on the agenda and will be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19301	Take a look at the record. The Secretary of Defense and the Prime Minister can say. I think there's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19302	I will not ask them now to plead at this time, in the prescribed form they will provide the Croatian Assembly with an answer to the question of stripping the tag "military Secrets" by Coliga Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19303	Mr. President, on behalf of the SDP Club, I have a suggestion or an objection to the order of the agenda points, given that the SDP Club has warned of the government's behaviour regarding point 35, and this is the signature of the Agreement with the IMF and the very document of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy. How we estimate that at this session, too, we have several legal projects that are very much related to the signed memorandum itself. And I also believe that the documents issued in the 7th and 8th months are on time, so they could, I would say all the members and parliamentary representatives consider. And let's not say, most importantly, that in 2002, the Council's decision required the government to sign such documents without debate in the House. So there's the club suggesting that the 35th agenda move forward, and I believe we're ready to discuss it tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19304	Dear fellow MP. In preparation for this session, Mr Mato Arlovic, on behalf of the SDP Club, proposed such a proposal with an explanation that you have now presented here. I am clearly respecting the position of the other clubs and the Government, starting with the fact that they have a priority in order to discuss the proposals relating to the laws under emergency procedure, the proposals for laws which mean the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union, and those of the laws and other points which were lagging behind from the last session, in accordance with Article 203 of the decision that was made before you. Whether it's going to be or not in order before, now it's the way it is. I've weighd all the reasons for your proposal, evaluated and placed myself in line with my powers in this order of the agenda. But please do not now come to you as part of this objection to points which did not contain a draft agenda sent for a call for a session or for these remaining six points. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19305	Mr. President, we don't want to say it's an objection. The point is, the suggestion is, for the simple reason that some of the points to be processed are related to the economic financial policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I think it is important to discuss this before these points. And also what we want to point out is that by decision of the Parliament, the government is obliged to discuss it. And I think if it's already missed, given that they've been summer vacations and shouldn't have missed it, I think at the beginning of the session we could have set up some points before. And that's why the club is suggesting and has an objection, and we don't want to disturb your decision. But still, we repeat the suggestion once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19306	Thank you very much. I gave my answer. As regards point 46 in the final draft agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act, Proposer Zeljko Pavlic, Proposal for a Law No. 131. I am reporting to the Croatian Parliament that the honourable representative has withdrawn his bill. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, I should now publish the established agenda. I suggest, if you agree, that I'm not reading the whole agenda, I'm merely announcing that the agenda has been established the way I suggested it in the final draft of the law. Thank you. I find that the agenda is established. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of the 10th session to the following points: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on Explosive Remains of War, Protocol IV, with the Convention prohibiting or restricting the use of certain conventional weapons with excessive traumatic effect, or acting irrespective of the objective of the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 167. 2. Proposal for a law amending the Implementing Law, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 168. 3. Final proposal of the Law on the National Centre for External Evaluation of Education, second reading, P.Z. No. 74. 4. Proposal for a Decision declaring the national day of combating violence against women 5. Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a member of the Board of the Pension Funds and Insurance Supervisory Agency, Article 205. The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that a proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. The laws proposed under the emergency procedure are: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Explosive Remains of War, P.Z. No. 167 and Proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Act, P.Z. No. 168. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these laws? Dear Representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19308	So I have one observation, so in the materials we've got some other bill proposals that are under emergency procedure, I don't know why they're not getting into the agenda right now. It's between the other and the Transport Safety Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19309	Not now, these two laws, please, do you have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of these two draft laws? You don't. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Explosive Remains of War? So bill number 167? Thank you. Against? I find that unanimously with 90 votes for an emergency procedure is included in the agenda of this bill. And, please, who's in favor of applying the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Implementing Law? Thank you. Against? Thank you. I find that, with 66 votes for and 25 against, and on the agenda, the final draft of the law amending the Implementing Law has been included. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of any of the remaining points in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the addition of the agenda is included. Another piece of information. These days, with the help of the repairman, I think we've finally trained the electronic voting system. All possible testing, testing, especially one yesterday, the system should function. I'd like to ask today that MPs and MPs at 14 o'clock be in the hall to run another test. Those who can be, who can be, who can be, with that part that can be, we can do another test and we can do a few more tests by Friday for the vote. Everything looks ready, everything's checked out. Here you go, fellow Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19310	Here, I repeat, the question why are these points not included in the agenda that we got at the same time as these adopted points? So most of it is the road safety law. At the same time we got, now they're not getting into the agenda. Since he's having an emergency procedure, I think he would.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19311	This is not yet in line with the Rules of Procedure, the deadline in which it is due to be placed on the agenda has expired. That's where the government's opinion should be, etc. So I have specifically and correctly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and placed them on the agenda with the appointment of the sitting and now with the points that the Rules of Procedure allow the President of the Parliament to put them on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue with the work of the session, and before the beginning I ask all MPs and MPs to pay tribute to yesterday's late longtime representative of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Srečko Bijelic, who in the parliamentary life of the Republic of Croatia has left a significant fertile trail. To our former colleagues, please pay our respects. - A minute of silence. - Praise him and thank him. - Praise him. - Representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19313	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. As you know yesterday there was a serious incident at the Croatian-Slovenian border in the County of Istria in Plovdiv. Several Slovenian MPs were temporarily arrested, then released. It's supposed to be a force. All the events took place by the Podobnik brothers, i.e. their Slovenian People's Party, SLS, and it is obvious that the shaken Slovenian party wants to draw attention to itself in this way. That's what she did. I personally believe that the Croatian police should have reacted as they did even though the 0.0 prominence for this provision was made with this act that was widely accompanied in the Austrian and Italian newspapers, Istrian and coastal-goran tourism is poorly written. Therefore, IDS requires that one of the Governments, I understand that Foreign Minister and Prime Minister Mr Sanader in the United States, but one of the Governments, I believe that this could be done by the Minister of Interior, to explain exactly what was going on in Plovdiv and in which direction, Croatian-Slovenian relations are going. These relationships, unfortunately, are getting worse from the bad ones. The Slovenian side informed of Xavier Solana and further, and I think that there will indeed be a much more serious incident in the end. It would be good either way or it would not be burning if, on behalf of the good neighbourly relations, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia invited the neighbouring states to keep their parliamentary deputies from such provocations “higher than the highest” of our history, the lives of people along the border and finally the economy and future of the two countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19314	Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19315	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I also appeared on behalf of the HSP Club, which was offered by yesterday's incident, which caused some Slovenian politicians who illegally entered Croatian territory, thus showing that a certain Mr. Joras is not just an incident person who has been provoking the Croatian public for several years already, but rather the opposite, I would dare to say the dominant part of Slovenian politics as soon as possible, which is more so than direct that the foreign minister is at least according to reports we have seen on Croatian television and other media, Slovenian Foreign Minister gave a statement that such moves by Croatia are moving away from the European Union, which is more than direct, I would say the political threat was made towards Croatia. I don't want to elaborate now. I therefore propose to you, Mr. President, that during this assembly session, it may also be possible today to ensure the presence of one of the competent ministers to submit information on these events in order to have the possibility of even discussing relations with Slovenia that are increasingly complex and complex. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19316	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. According to all relevant official statements by the Ministry of the Interior, a group of Slovenian citizens among whom he was former Slovenian Parliament Speaker, now the president of the Slovenian People's Party, a representative in the Slovenian Parliament, another MP violated the provocative Croatian laws. In the uncontested Croatian state territory they violated Croatian laws and the Ministry of Interior reacted in accordance with laws, Croatian laws. The nature of the incident, the provoked incident, is best said by the Podobnik himself, who said that Croatian police officers arrested him in the Slovenian country and in the Slovenian state. I remind the Croatian Parliament that in the mid-90s, the Slovenian parliament made one memorandum, one of the decisions that was assessed as so-called "the so-called" in Croatia. paper annexia where 4 settlements located on the territory of the Republic of Croatia declared part of Slovenian territory. Yesterday evening, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, their Parliament, sent me a letter stating: “On behalf of my fellow Members, and in my name I express the most severe condemnation of the incidents that took place today, the 22.9.4th year at the Croatian border and the inadmissible harsh use of force against the representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the Vice-President of the Committee on Foreign Policy and the leader of the group of representatives of the Slovenian People's Party, Janez Podobnik and member of the group Ivan Bozic and some other members of the Slovenian People's Party. I expect immediate release and proper explanation of the causes of this inadmissible and incomprehensible act. President Franz Horvat." Prime Minister, Dr Ivo Sanader commented in New York on this incident with the assessment that Croatia does not want and that there is no good escalation of the relationship between Croatia and Slovenia, but that there is no tolerance towards those who do not respect Croatian laws. When crossing the border line without documents, they must also make misappropriations and act according to the laws. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of this letter by the President of the Slovenian Parliament, the National Assembly, since it is obvious that it is another set of consciously and intentionally provoked provocations that should only be served for pre-election purposes ahead of the recent elections in the Republic of Slovenia, which is generally the case when elections where such border and border issues are used are used, to create incidents, and then to accuse the Croatian side of these incidents. I propose that the Committee on Foreign Policy hold a session today to discuss all this and take its stand before the Croatian Parliament. I therefore ask the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy to convene a meeting during today, to discuss this issue, and then report to the Assembly. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament pursuant to Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm going to propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition to this session's agenda. Report by the mandated immunity commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Zeljko Ledinski and the termination of his deputy Zdenko Haramija. Does he have any objections to including this point in the agenda? Here's your esteemed representative, Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19318	159. 160. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] I have sent the Rules of Procedure to the Parliament's procedure according to the Rules of Procedure to the emergency procedure of the Road Safety Act...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19319	Comrade Pavlic, do you have any objection to the inclusion of this point in the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19320	I have an objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19321	Do you have any objections to including this point on the agenda?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19322	Not for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19323	Thank you very much. You can do the other one later. Any objections to including this point on the agenda? If there is no, then I believe that the completion of the agenda has been established. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mr. Sesvecan, to file a report. Mr. Pavlic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19325	So let me continue, I think that the injured Rules of Procedure I am by procedure, in the parliamentary procedure sent the Law by emergency procedure as prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, this law has not yet been included in the agenda. Now that I'm not reading the articles of 159 and 160, it's my opinion that we should make a statement about the inclusion of this item in the agenda by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19326	Comrade Pavlic, when you sent this bill into procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19327	Last week.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19328	Last week, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19329	There was an addition to the agenda on Wednesday, so it wasn't done, and it says right here that no later than 24 hours before it was determined, I fulfilled that procedural provision. I don't know why this law isn't included in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19330	Now you'll get an explanation why. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The rules of procedure of the last paragraph, the proposal to adopt the law by an emergency procedure, shall be submitted to the President of the Assembly no later than 24 hours before the sitting agenda is established. 24 hours before the session agenda. The session of last month's 15th session set the agenda. The agenda has been established. So, if you had submitted the motion 24 hours before then I would have been obliged to classify your proposal as an emergency procedure. Therefore, it is relevant, as the Rules of Procedure of the Agenda of the sitting says. And you're saying yourself that last week you passed that bill of law to be brought in by emergency procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19331	This week we had a case to supplement the agenda, this week we got materials. For example, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol to Explosive Substances, etc. This week's emergency procedure, so he's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19332	It is the authority of the President of the Parliament! It is President-in-Office's authority whether, the Rules of Procedure grant him such powers and is not his duty. And here, in this case simply if it is submitted 24 hours ago, then the President of the Parliament must be placed before the agenda is established, and if it is submitted later, then it is his discretionary authority to enter or not enter. I, using that authority, have decided not to take the urgent action of your draft law on the agenda according to an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19333	Here, President-in-Office, I urge you to put this agenda on the agenda. Here, and I have no doubt you'll do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19334	- Apple hasn't been heard! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, may I have your attention, please? We're going to vote on the debated agenda points. It will not be a waste if I read the provisions of Rule 238.a of the Rules of Procedure relating to electronic voting. On the occasion of an electronic vote, each representative shall confirm the presence of his/her identification key before each vote. The representatives who are in the Chamber who have not confirmed their presence in accordance with Article 1(1) of this Article shall be deemed not to be present at the meeting. The electronic vote shall be held in such a way as to invite the chairpersons to confirm their presence and then to press the appropriate key to be declared for or against the proposal or to refrain from voting. The chairman shall declare the result of the vote on the basis of the control screen. The voice of the MPs who confirmed the presence and did not press the key for, against and abstention is considered to be abstentioned. At the request of the representative of the Club of Representatives, a vote by hand will be held and an electronic vote cannot be held in the name vote. We've tried the system multiple times. In all the trials of the last days, he's shown that he's functioning correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19337	Dear Mr. President, as is known in the parliamentary procedure, the motion for a resolution on the principles of interstate talks of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia has been included, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. We at the Club are interested in when this topic, when our point will come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, will be especially given the frequent incidents on the Slovenian side. I think it may also be an ideal reason to discuss all this in this House of Commons. We're also interested in when it's going to be on the agenda of the stand-by arrangement with the IMF?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19338	In terms of the first, it is true that you, your club, have referred it to the procedure and I will put it in line with the Rules of Procedure and put it on the agenda. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this second proposal has already been included in the agenda under point 16. Thank you very much. I'll see you Wednesday at 9.30. Session adjourned at 3:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19339	On the agenda, the second item should now be the debate on the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the new stand-by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. You skipped that point last night, you said there were no business conditions for that point. I would like to remind you that three weeks ago at the extended Parliament Presidency, you said that this point will be discussed in the second week of work of the Croatian Parliament. This is now the third week that has passed, without discussing the subject. The fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given an opinion for three weeks is not an argument for us not to discuss this matter, but it is in our opinion only that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not open the debate in the Croatian Parliament as long as possible because it is very strange that the Government cannot give an opinion on its own act which it has signed. We believe that the IMF does not want to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament, because there are no questions from the government how, for example, we will answer this question to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that 400 kuna is more expensive life since HDZ took power. How are we going to answer why it was signed in the IMF that it would be reduced, i.e. that a zero VAT rate on bread and milk will be abolished, thus making life difficult for our citizens. These life issues are issues we are asking for to open a debate in the Croatian Parliament, and if this issue is not discussed today, I am looking for a break from an hour on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19340	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19341	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The overall work of this session of the Parliament has to date taken place on the agenda agreed at the Bureau session, extended with the club presidents, to propose today, or yesterday, that one item of the agenda be skipped because business conditions are not met. It seems to me that yesterday we spent an entire day discussing a agenda point that was also not an indication of the government of any working body, and it was not an obstacle to spend all day on a topic which everyone who participated in the debate said was for, and we still had to debate all day to finally come to the vote for the proposed Investigative Commission. Given the topics, yesterday was the past, and this topic should be tomorrow, or at least the short-term future of the Croatian economy and the economy, I consider it necessary for us to continue today's debate on the subject, and since it is not clear to me, if it was necessary for the working bodies to have this on the agenda, why it was not done, because they had on the agenda points that are on the agenda 59th, 61st, etc. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I demand a break of 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19342	On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19343	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, like representatives and previous clubs, I was at the Bureau's session when it was agreed by nature that this item of the agenda should have come’ urgently to the session of the Parliament for the first week. We've appreciated your reasons for saying it's not possible for the first week, but you've honestly promised to be in the second week. The second week passed, last week, and even then we did not discuss this item of the agenda, although this debate and this item of the agenda relate to the quality of life of each of our citizens. I would particularly like to remind that this Croatian Parliament has reached a conclusion that obliges the government to discuss this before any signing. Unfortunately, here we are now in the third week when this item of the agenda is not being discussed. I wonder if we don't have an answer on this agenda point to the question of who marginalizes the Parliament. Looks like we're marganizing it ourselves. The Croatian Peasants' Club is seeking a break of an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19344	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19345	Because of the necessary consultations at my club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19346	And Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19347	Dear Mr. President, and distinguished gentlemen, I think parliamentary jurisdiction is working to open a debate today on the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and a new stand-by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. What is fundamentally here is the question of why the working bodies of this House boycott the initiatives of parliamentary deputies. The question arises why the government boycotts parliamentarian initiatives. Finally, the question arises why Parliament's president boycotts parliamentary club initiatives. Why, in one word, we deny the public, why we rape the Rules of Procedure, why we simply make it impossible by arbitrary treatment, not only about this case, but also a whole series of other legislative initiatives to discuss parliamentary proposals within one appropriate time. And so we're looking for a little break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19348	Very well, thank you very much. The agenda according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, according to the Rules of Procedure, is proposed by the President of the Croatian Parliament. The extended Presidency, which consists of the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Clubs, discusses, on the eve of the session on the agenda, but that is, it has the nature of the consultation, and the importance and consequences of the consultation, because the Rules of Procedure determines who proposes and determines the agenda and determines it at the plenary session. The government runs its policy of dynamics and priorities. And representatives' clubs have their priorities. So, nothing I, Mr. Cain, is boycotting that the policy of certain parties through their views on clubs and committees is taking certain views and then making certain decisions that are tied up, has a conjecture that, that the committees of parent and others do not give their reports and opinions and do not debate, it is a matter of political match. But in accordance with the requirements of the clubs, I'm setting a 15-minute break. We're going to continue the session. I'd like a representative of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19350	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are pleased that this morning, in a statement by Mr. Seks, as President of the Parliament, we heard a few things from which we can first conclude that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respect the Parliament's decision. Here we have also reached a conclusion in which it is very clearly indicated, and this is what the HDZ Club voted for, that no agreement with the IMF can be signed in this House, or in this country, unless it comes to the Croatian Parliament before. The agreement with the IMF did not come to the Croatian Parliament and it is therefore definitely that the government does not respect the Croatian Parliament's decision. We also heard a sentence that, I quote, reads as follows: "The government leads its policy and takes care of its priorities." Yes, that policy led by the government is exactly what we of the SDP Club wanted to discuss in this Parliament, we wanted to discuss precisely because this policy in this document, signed by the government in Washington, determines the country's economic policy by 2006, but more importantly, determines fate and quality and how our citizens will live by 2006. As a result, we feel that we need to deal with this subject in this House, not with the peripheral topics we have been dealing with lately. The third thing we heard in Mr. Shakespeare's statement is that the government takes care of its priorities. It is unfortunate that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is all the second priority, but it is not a priority of the standard of our citizens and how citizens in this country will live. It's not their priority and they don't want to discuss why we're taking down and taking down zero rates for bread and milk, which is why the HDZ government is introducing restrictions in healthcare...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19351	My fellow Menace, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19352	...which is why the IRS is being abolished...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19353	Comrade Opačić, you are now discussing the metrics of things that are yet to be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19354	I'm speaking for the club, I'm asking for a break...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19355	Yes, on behalf of the club, but you're talking about the contents of the government's economic policy now. ... I know well...... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, peace. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Peace, gentlemen. Peace, gentlemen. You can't let me... Quiet. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Quiet. Quiet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19356	You've been yelling for three and a half years, yelling at each other. You've been yelling so hard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19357	Peace in the assembly. Quiet. Go on, Miss Watt. Comrade Opacic, please stick to what you have to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19358	I will. So, we're from the SDP Club...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19359	Don't, gentlemen MPs, throw me away. You have no right, you are violating order in the assembly and the Rules of Procedure. And you won't throw it away. ... You won't throw, you won't throw. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19360	Since this is Parliament, here I am going to keep talking. So, we at the SDP Club were looking for a break for the club because we think that in this House we should discuss that unfortunately, the HDZ Government has committed itself to not deciding on the return of debt to pensioners in the Croatian Assembly but in the IMF, therefore, in Washington. Finally, on behalf of the SDP Club, we ask that the Prime Minister or any of the vice presidents come to us immediately and explain to us why the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a priority except for how our citizens live.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19361	HNS club, PGS. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19362	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It is not disputed, therefore, that the agenda set out for this session is respected and discussed on the planned or agreed agenda. And according to that agenda, there should now be a debate on the Memorandum of Economic, Financial and Economic Policy, which the government has created, signed and directed to the International Monetary Fund. The argument that no conditions have been obtained, the business conditions for the debate on the agenda point, because there is no government opinion simply cannot be accepted because it is a document drawn up and produced by the Government. We have never seen the government give an opinion, its opinion on the proposal of its law, which it refers to in the procedure, and it is perfectly normal that the government document does not need government opinion. Secondly, the working bodies of the Parliament, at least part of them, the committees tried to keep it on the agenda before this session and reach conclusions, opinions or recommendations. However, due to boycotting and leaving the board meetings of some of the board, most of the members of the HDZ ranks have disappeared, but the other members of the working bodies have therefore given their separate opinions in order to meet the business conditions for the item to be on the agenda. If any of the other working bodies need to give an opinion before we open this debate, then I suggest we stop the plenary session, that these working bodies meet immediately, determine their views, bring it to us here and that the debate goes normally. So I don't see any reason for the Rules of Procedure why we can't discuss this point today. I would like to remind you that yesterday there was a debate on one item of the agenda on the basis of a proposal for part of the MPs in which there was no opinion of the Government, there was no opinion of any working body and no one protested and asked to meet all the business provisions that we were discussing all day. Since this topic is to, and we insist on discussing it, it is not a topic of history and the past but a topic of all the laws that we will have in this Croatian Parliament in the future. Of pension insurance, social policy, health insurance, credit and monetary policy and all those influences that the government or undertake to have and implement. I agree that the government has its priorities, however, if, in determining these priorities, it is up to the Parliament to say that we are only allowed to answer two questions. Why did the Government set its priorities before the debate in this House and why it did not agree to at least post-festum discuss it today. I repeat my proposal, Mr. President. There are no conditions for the continuation of the plenary session, ask the presidents of the working bodies to convene committees immediately, to inform us of their views and to discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19363	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the respected representative of Zlatko Tomcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We at the HSS Club think that there are actually no big business secrets around this case, so there are no big business violations. We understand fully at the HSS Club that the government actually has the right to determine the dynamics of its work, priorities, the quality of everything that will be discussed in the Assembly, with one note, not the Government but the majority in the Parliament. We certainly know, we have some experience in the assembly work, with it can always happen, under quotes, that there are no conditions for some point. Either the government doesn't give an opinion or committees don't do the work they were supposed to do and it's perfectly legitimate and it's totally in line with the Rules of Procedure. However, there are some very different, additional questions. There is a question of the purpose of the presidency of the Parliament and the extended Presidency of the Parliament. It makes sense why even the presidents of clubs with the Parliament's presidency would debate the agenda, establish it, negotiate, then as Mr. President of the Parliament said through a political match, the deal was played. This isn't about a political game here. It's simply about disrespecting the Presidency's decisions. This is about a common fraud. It's a matter of political fair play, of course the government has its rights but, of course, in those rights when an agreement is reached then some minimum political fair play should still be held. Of course there's a question of political responsibility here. Why? FOR a very simple reason to force themselves at the meetings of the Assembly of Themes which could indeed not eat as much time as yesterday's debate on a single topic of food and, in fact, at the beginning of the debate in the first hour, it was evident that all clubs would accept the formation of the Research Commission on Viktor Lentz. We don't see any reason to spend it that way, but let's just say that corny phrase about taxpayers' money. In fact, what we're talking about here, I think our citizens are thinking again after these breaks, after the exposure that it's simply about a dry gap between position and opposition. Oh, it's not about the dry shooting. It's about something else. It is done that in this way the leadership of the Parliament today is actually further marginalized by this Parliament of course by the ruling majority. Of course he is trying to hide from the Croatian public the fact that the government signed something that was not allowed to sign, that the government signed a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund that is harmful to the Republic of Croatia. He's a bad guy. Of course I will not elaborate today in these five minutes why he is harmful I hope we will get a final opportunity and Mr. President I ask you to set a final date, a date, the day when this debate will be discussed that we too from the opposition will get a chance to explain to the Croatian public that the government has made an inadmissible harmful move not only for the marginalisation of the Parliament but for accepting a completely wrong, wrong and harmful economic policy. Give us a chance to say that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19365	Thank you. IDS agent club. Here, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19366	Yes, Mr. Baby, this time you were before me, so the correctness of the President's desk would require you to speak before me. But let's let it go now. Mr. Shakespeare said earlier that everything that's going on is a matter of political match. And I absolutely agree with that, however, and I also have the impression that there is an opposition initiative boycott, not only do we understand the boycott of the proposal for the IMF and the debate sought by SDP representatives. I personally have a different opinion on the stand by arrangement with the IMF than the proposings but the government's behaviour also argues that both the President of the Parliament and the Committee are denying the possibility of expressing that opinion. Therefore, the IDS Club asks to open the debate now, immediately, on the trail of the proposal submitted by Mr Lesar, to give us a break by 12 o'clock that is quite enough for committees to take their positions and to start discussing the Agreement with the IMF at 12 o'clock with direct television transmissions. On the other hand, we also keep at the IDS Club that the government's own act does not require the government's opinion. Imagine the government didn't ask the Parliament's opinion on the basis of this 92nd House's conclusion before she signed an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and now it's up to the Government's opinion on what the note of the government's proposal is, and I think that's actually the point. I personally argue that, as there is no government that would not cooperate with The Hague so hard that any government would give up co-operation with the IMF, however, the fundamental question is whether any government would sign the arrangements with the IMF signed by Sanader's government, whether it is privatisation, and on the other hand, we are promised to pay back the debt to pensioners by selling those shares in the portfolio of the Croatian Privatisation Fund. Among other things, what concerns me most is the privatisation of our shipyards and it scares me to be honest. It is good to conclude in this proposal that public spending needs to be contained, but the growth in wage mass as proposed will be below inflation growth and a zero-rate elimination is also proposed. It's good to keep the foreign debt in check, but in seven months this year, it's about $3 billion. So there are things that are good in this arrangement with the IMF, there are things that are bad, like the former government signed one bad moment when it went towards abolishing certain labour rights. So in order to avoid this bitter taste of boycott, I ask, above all, the President of the Assembly to open a debate on stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and do so immediately. I personally believe that this is what the public of the Republic of Croatia expects of us, to simply confrontation two views and express the knowledge that we will have to behave by the end of 2006, or until the end of the period from this stand by arrangement. We ask that the debate be opened in order to respect the Parliamentary procedure without prejudice to the integrity of the parliamentary initiatives. That's the fact, that's what we think the point is, as is also, we need to talk about something else, and that's the opportunity in this agreement that Croatia spends beyond its possibilities. Lenca was to be spoken yesterday, 0.0 prominions should be spoken, shipbuilding, external debt, pensioners, responsibilities, but also talk about stand-by arrangements with the International Monetary Fund agreed by the ruling majority in HDZ, HSLS, DC, HSU, SDSS etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19367	Thank you very much, Mr. Cain, thank you very much. Honored representative Luka Bebic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The HDZ Club believes that as soon as possible, the government would prepare a comprehensive material that would be the basis for a debate on this agenda point. We expect the committees to get that, too, so that we can discuss it, and when these conditions are met, then this item will be proposed, or discussed at the Parliament's session, and no one really wants to avoid the debate on this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and the priorities remarks. When a priority and who can be highlighted and who can be discussed and when. Mr. Tomcic's observation that yesterday we spent taxpayers' funds all day on one item of the agenda, you might think so. But last week, we also spent taxpayers' resources on parliamentary minority initiatives, proposals that were here on the agenda all last week, and are trying to impose most of the priorities in this House. So, according to Mr. Tomcic's logic, it can be considered to be the spending of taxpayers' funds if yesterday was the spending of taxpayers' funds. Because imposing dynamics and priorities by the minority is a business right, but as Mr. Tomcic said, the government and most have the right to have an initiative and advantage because they are the majority. I would not remind the MPs that in this House by midnight we were discussing very important issues and voting about midnight, away from the Croatian public, and whoever made it possible was then the President of the Parliament, so alchemically transferring the agenda points that many of the points that were of interest to the Croatian public discussed about 11 or 12 hours of the night. Countless times. Mr Cain is talking about the boycott of opposition proposals. I'm calling again last week when there was no boycott, but a week-long debate on opposition proposals. What are you gentlemen talking about, and what you want to say here, that's not true. You're siphoning the Parliament with proposals that you know in advance that it won't go away, because you won't impose, you won't impose on the government's majority of priorities in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19369	Okay. Did the other MPs allow and tolerate the presidents and representatives of the opposition clubs, and why are you now interrupting the president of the HDZ Club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19370	...know this or premeditate that these initiatives will not be accepted or will not be accepted in the majority, yet bury the Parliament from day to day with such proposals, and then talk about the boycott of the initiative coming from opposition parties. Oh, no, you don't. It's like we don't know what we discussed last week. And as Mr. Lesar says, the minority on the boards has reached some conclusions. You said that minorities had singled out their opinions and informed the Assembly that no minority on the board could deliver any opinion when the committee was not held. You can deliver your individual opinions in private. But if there's no quorum on the board, then there's no board. Therefore, no avoidance by the HDZ and the government and most of it does not exist will come to the agenda and this thing that was now the second item of the agenda when the conditions are met, and that will be very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19371	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am correcting Mr. Bebić's quote in which he quoted my presentation, that I have confirmed that the government has the right to determine the dynamics and priorities of its work. That's right. But when something is quoted, in order for it to be completely correct then an integrallo must be quoted. I literally said that the government had the right to do so, but that the Bureau of Parliament and the President of Parliament should respect the decisions made at the Bureau of Parliament and the extended Bureau of Parliament. The decision was made once. If it cannot be realized, then an explanation should be given to this home why it cannot be realized. It can't be transferred to me that I've broken a deal at any time when the club presidents and the Bureau have concluded something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19373	Thank you. And a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19374	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Bebic said, paraphrasing some previous colleagues, that during some early initiatives, this Assembly spent taxpayers' funds. We can't just set that thing up like that. Legitimate..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19375	What's the correction, Mr. Cain? What's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19376	That we were spending money. Well, legitimate initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19377	Which is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19378	That we were spending money..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19379	Mr. Cain, what's wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19380	Well, that's incorrect. Well, it's a constitutional category. Well, we can't question the opposition's, government's initiatives right now, or I don't know anyone who can be a pronoun.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19381	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19382	I'm shutting down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19383	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have carefully listened to all the proposals, the opinions of the clubs that asked for a break and who presented their proposals to their representatives. The Bureau of the Assembly and the Presidents of the Clubs of Representatives referred to in Article 37. The Rules of Procedure are discussing the agenda of the upcoming session of the Parliament. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am that session of the Bureau of Parliament and the president of the Clubs of Representatives before the appointment of this session and held. But according to our Rules of Procedure, the President of the Parliament proposes the agenda of the Parliament, which makes it clear to Article 203. The Rules of Procedure and I shall do so in the draft agenda, which shall be sent with a call for a session, to enter all the topics which shall, in the manner provided for in the Rules of Procedure, be referred to within 30 days when it comes to the draft law or 15 days when it comes to the final draft of the law. Absolutely September 7th, when I scheduled this session of the Parliament, I made all those proposals and laws regardless of whether they were from the Government, whether they were from the club's representatives the proposals of acts of conclusions, resolutions, declarations, all in the agenda, in the draft agenda. Therefore, it is not a matter of making any kind of deal, because this presidency of the extended Parliament does not make any decisions. That debate on the agenda, and following that debate, the President of the Parliament proposes, in accordance with Article 203 of the draft agenda, that draft agenda was discussed by the Croatian Parliament on 15 September when the agenda was established. As far as this particular proposal is concerned, this one is included. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal to discuss the memorandum of economic and financial policy and arrangement with the IMF has been tabled by the SDP Representatives' Club and also submitted by the HSP Representatives' Club. These are incentives to discuss these two topics, and this point is included in the agenda. The ruling majority took the view that not only the government, the ruling majority on dynamics and priority and preparation for that agenda point. In line with this political decision by the ruling majority, the government is acting in accordance with the political will of the ruling majority when a fact-finding agenda item is to be included and implemented at the Plenary Session of the Parliament. Accordingly, the Government is also preparing a fully valid, not only the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, but there is also a whole accompanying material that has gone along with these negotiations, talks, agreements. And that is in line with the proposals for conclusions, the proposals of the club of HSP representatives. For these reasons, officials of the ruling majority also took political positions in the working bodies of the Parliament and the committees that they did not want to and that they had taken off the agenda this point until one reasoned material came from the government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I respect the political views of the ruling majority of MPs, the club's representatives of the ruling majority, which is what I am today, so I will not interrupt the session, but because there are no business conditions for this debate on this item of the agenda, and they do not have because it is the ruling majority's decision, that it is the ruling majority's decision, that now and at this point, it is not the subject of what is the political will of the ruling majority, but that the ruling majority determines the moment when it will be discussed, and it will be discussed during this session. Therefore, I cannot abide by those proposals that go after the session to be interrupted, to convene committees and to start at 12 o'clock, and all other similar proposals that have been made in this direction. I respect the political views of the ruling majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19384	Wait, before on behalf of the club. In front of the club, I want something else first, just as much as with point 6 to be secured by a representative of the government, it's number one. And number two, that just doesn't eskiate the debate on this agenda topic. What you, Mr. President, are doing right now simply want to deprive the public of the opportunity to participate, or participate in this debate. A clear question is raised, as is the case with the debate or the re-longing of the IMF debate, which is the down boycott of opposition proposals. I demand outside the IDS Club a normal break to buy time, in order to allow a debate at a more appropriate time. Because the fact is that it's a matter that's tangling almost one million Croatian citizens at this time or to be more precise than 700 thousand. This is finally, I dare even say matter that tangs and trust in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia because it speaks of the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, such a message can end in the end with the knowledge or message of the pensioners that they will simply get nothing in the end because there is also Parliament and the Croatian Government in a one-eyed way boycotting them about something that is life-threatening for them. And please rest, please rest until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19385	For the government's faceless boycotting, I give you a warning, because it's an insult to the government. The second thing, we'll provide a representative of the government for this point and in the morning we'll provide a representative of the government for the number six point, because tonight we couldn't secure it. There's no reason for a break. Mr. Lesar, what were you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19386	Can I go on behalf of the club?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19387	And in the name of the club you're looking for a word?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19388	Yes!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19390	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Vice President, this is the second case that at this session there is a non-compliance with the established agenda of the session that we received this morning as a consolidated text, without any adequate explanation that these conditions are not satisfied that this agenda could be respected. And there's no excuse that there's no representative of the government for the sixth point that should be on the line right now. It is true and it is right that colleagues of Cain regularly make proposals that come from the lines of the opposition either try to argue at a time when the public cannot be familiar with it. Although there are no government representatives at points 6 and 7, then I suggest that we now go to points 28, 29 and 30, because that is also a proposal that is not from the Government but from the MPs according to the same criteria as you, without reason, suggested that we skip and move to point 7. Last time you assured us that it was objective circumstances in the government that we had to skip the agenda, this time it was not said at all why the government's representative was gone, that it was going on the agenda points. Last time we were warned that the Presidency of the Parliament was not responsible for the adoption extended with... agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I did it again and again and again now. The agenda is also set out what we require to respect the order of the established and accepted agenda. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19391	In this House, there was a regular division so that there could be an inversion of certain points of the agenda that had passed, and all the other mandates in this House had worked so well and the chairmans had done it countless times and I don't see any reason if the government would ensure that the debate on that item of the agenda and in the morning also from the opposition MPs the proposal of a law that would be implemented as the first morning starting at 9.30 p.m., I don't know how you claim to ignore the opposition initiative. One law and another is an opposition proposal. I'm setting a break, and so do you. Here you go. HDZ too, setting a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19392	Ladies and gentlemen, it's been 10 minutes. They asked for a break from Mr. Representative Damir Cain in between, on behalf of the IDS, and here you go for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19393	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of Parliament, the first question that we are all in the opposition would be the question until when are we actually working today? Is that normal work by 7:00? Is this some new rule that's being prepared now, or is it the act of self-will of the vice president of this House? The second thing I'm saying is, the second thing I'm trying to say in action is no matter what these raids are, they're boycotting opposition proposals. This is the dictatorship of the majority, more specifically, if you want the terror of the majority over the minority. And I think it's unacceptable because that puts the majority in a different position than the minority. If that is the case, and apparently that is exactly what is in place, then it is also an eclectic violation of the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives. This is on the other side of the matter that affects 1 million Croatian citizens. If it's not the interest of this home, one of those 1 million people is following this debate or 700 grand. It is quite relevant, irrelevant then, in the act of hiding the truth from 700 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who all have other members of their family. That hiding the truth in some way is also a message to the retired that this government can't expect anything good. What does the IDS suggest in this legislative proposal? We're proposing a bond debt return. Finally, the government is unable to come up with a proposal to form an imaginary fund, let alone to pursue debt recovery, as the 1998 Constitutional Court’s decision speaks of? We believe that this is ultimately a matter of respect or respect for the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This is a matter of implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, but this is to express the issue of parliamentary jurisdiction as well. This is a matter of gentlemen of the majority, of the collegiation and of the jurisdiction of the majority who apparently violates the spirit of the Rules of Procedure by force. I hold above this practice that all those who participate in the majority should rebel. Not only the HDZ but also the Croatian party of pensioners, HSLS, minorities, DC and not to list the others. Because apparently, it's obvious that Vice President Baby talks or talks on your behalf as well. Therefore, on behalf of me, I would say not only the IDS Club but also the good parliamentary customs, please allow us to discuss it at that scheduled time during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19394	Mr. Agent Cain here has determined that the terror of the majority is over the minority. The introduction of a term of terror into the Parliament begins one such custom that should not be allowed in the Croatian Parliament and therefore, it is your claims and insults by the majority in the Assembly that I am giving you another warning because of this insult. ... Another warning because of you, the one, and if you're talking about terror, Mr. Kai's majority over the minority, which is not true, it can only be worse, worse terror of minorities over most, you know. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying it exists, but it could be worse. Therefore, you must refrain from insulting the majority of the Assembly and call it the terror of the minority and therefore you have received that second warning... That's the terror of the majority over the minority, is an offensive word for most. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's how I interpret it, and you interpret it differently. ... You didn't get the word, Mr. Linic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't get the word, you didn't ask for the word, Mr. Linic, and don't rule. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I haven't taken anyone's word from you. [[You have no right to take away the word in the assembly.]] I gave a five-minute word to Mr. Caine and he got it. He used it to insult the assembly majority. ... It's true, it's true. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's Mrs. Opacic in five minutes, please. On behalf of the SDP Club. ... This is where I'm written "Tape" and "Lessar," but here you go. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't care.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19395	I'm just trying to follow professional procedures, nothing more. Dear Mr. Vice President, this morning, when the session was started and the session was resumed on the benches, we received this document called the purified agenda for the 10th session. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly states: “After the agenda has been established, the President of the Assembly declares a set agenda. At the beginning of each working day of the meeting, the president normally publishes what points of the agenda will be discussed on that day." As no points of the agenda are published this morning, it was meant that we would go according to the order of the points we received in writing on the benches when we entered the assembly at 9.30 p.m. No other changes in the order of the agenda points from this table were made until the time when the established agenda was to be skipped. I repeat the established agenda. If so, there were reasons or intentions to skip the agenda. Then you should have said that this morning. In accordance with Article 205, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: And for this point that we need to skip, there are reports of competent working bodies, promoters or governments. So this provision gives the chairman the right to change if there are no proposings, because it does not necessarily have to be a government, or a representative of the government. I believe that this clean agenda was delivered to the government this morning, and that the government's representatives at point 6 knew that a debate was planned in order or that they might have known something else in the morning that we didn't know. That's about the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with this provision, Mr. Baby, I'm looking for it, and I demand on behalf of the club that we either go in accordance with the established agenda, or that the session is over tonight and we continue tomorrow morning. It's acceptable to me both. However, when from the point of view of the second case in 5 days of changing the agenda and always when it comes to opposition proposals and colleagues who are protesting, I must remind you that you last week from this pay phone told us that you, therefore, will not impose on you rulings the subject and priorities and order. If I understood correctly, it meant we wouldn't impose these topics. We use the business right to propose agenda points, and patiently with each proposal we wait 30 days to put on the agenda and for the next 3 days to come the government's opinion, so that after 75 there are business conditions to discuss these points. And after that, it's not enough, it's done in the order of the agenda. So I kindly ask you and repeat my proposal 18.20 is, let's stop today's work, let's continue in order tomorrow as the agenda has been established. You didn't give a single business reason why you wouldn't respect him, or invite the government's representative for a 6-point agenda to work on the established agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19396	We'll secure a government representative at 9:30 tomorrow. And for this part of the agenda, we will secure this session. These sessions. So it's all within the Rules of Procedure. It's all within the Rules of Procedure and now there are five minutes of Mrs. Opacic. Here you are on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19397	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We had a debate a few days ago on the occasion just like this about skipping agenda points, when it came to the IMF debate when the point was skipped and moved on to someone else. Then, Mr. Bebić told you that the minority will not impose most of the topics we will discuss in the Croatian Parliament. I must admit that you are very congenital in this and today again, so you decide what is to be discussed, and you change the points in the way that suits you. And not the way they're on the agenda, and whether or not all the business conditions for that point are met. I must admit that you are also very congenital in what you said that you set your priorities, and you are indeed showing again that you are not the priority of the topic of all that concerns our citizens and their standards. I know why this topic should come at this time for discussion when there are no Croatian TV cameras on fire because it will be very difficult for you from HDFor you to explain to the Croatian public why there is still no list of assets that enter the pension fund. Because in agreement with the IMF, you made a commitment to agree first with the IMF people and then to give it to the pensioners' associations and associations. And only then will the recent thing that was first agreed with the IMF be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Afterwards, any debate in this House will be groundless and I think that after many things are first agreed in America, this Parliament is indeed too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19398	Thank you very much. Five minutes, Mrs. Maria Byte reported on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19399	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is not opposed to the debate on a bill on the repayment of debt to pensioners with a final draft law. Because all the conditions for discussion of the Croatian Government and the working bodies have been obtained, and I would not like to remind you of what has been done on the agenda in this House in the past four years on the basis of the same Rules of Procedure. We therefore call on colleagues and colleagues to approach the debate on the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19400	Thank you very much. It's on behalf of the club, but you didn't sign up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19401	Vice-President of the Croatian Peasants' Club. Mr. Vice President, given that during these five minutes we did not ask for a break, but since during these 5-minute talks some things happened, some words were said by the Croatian Peasant Party representative club asking for a break of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19402	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any clubs? There isn't. We're crossing nothing's happened, ma'am, in the meantime. You could have discussed it in those ten minutes. I couldn't accept your 15 minutes it's something beyond the usual behavior in this House. Because then no session would end because someone would always have the right to ask for 15 minutes or 20 minutes and that would not be the end of it. So we're going over the n 7 point of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19403	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19404	Mr. Representative Zlatko Tomcic has raised for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19405	Mr. Vice President, you've done a serious injury to the Rules of Procedure. According to our Rules of Procedure, the Chairman is obliged to give, with a given explanation, the Committee is obliged to give a recess. I ask you to withdraw your decision and give the HSS Club a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19406	Stanka was 10 minutes away. Nothing happened in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19407	Don't interpret what we're about to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19408	You've been interpreting the Rules of Procedure here for four years as you wanted, transferring the agenda points as you wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19409	Mr. President, you're making a market out of this Parliament. For this. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19410	I'm not making a market out of the Parliament, but I want the Parliament to work, and this House to have agendas, and to end the debates that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19411	We're neatly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure...we've explained why we're looking for her, don't read our thoughts we've said that because of the events that took place in these few 5-minute exposures we want to consider on the club. [[Speaker not enabled]] Don't read our minds, grant us a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19412	I don't know what happened. No events happened except for those who asked for a break talking to the Rules of Procedure for five minutes. No events have occurred in the meantime, I refuse to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19413	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I see that the representatives of certain clubs seek word and raise their hands. Please let us go in a row. You have the opportunity to suggest holding a break, to explain holding a break on behalf of the clubs. Tonci Tadic, Club of HSP. I'm sorry to put it in order. Dear colleague Zlatko Tomčić, Milanka Opačić, Damir Kajin, Dragutin Lesar and respected Željko Pavlic and HDZ Marija Bajt. Seven. Let's take it in a row. Dear Representative Tonci Tadic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19414	Your Honor, Mr. President. Prior to the end of today's meeting of the Assembly, the HSP Club is asking for the Parliament to be addressed by the interior minister for frequent incidents in Savudrija Vala. Yesterday, the incident with Slovenian fishermen and a Slovenian patrol ship began at 3:30 and lasted until 18:30. I ask you to contact the Parliament urgently with the Minister of the Interior and file a full report on what the government did in particular yesterday, which is what it does and what it means to do. Also on behalf of the HSP Club, I insist that you put on the agenda as soon as possible a proposal for a declaration submitted by our club based on the Savudria Memorandum signed by Mr. Slaven Letica in Savudrija Vala. The situation is far from normal and far from being stopped by the election itself. As for the opposition deal, I ask Mr. Peru Kovacevic to make his views known on behalf of our club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19415	That's not how it works. We can't start arguing, you're on behalf of the club, one representative has made, you've made some proposals, you've given some initiatives, and that's it for now. I'd like an honorary representative of Zlatko Tomcic on behalf of the HSS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19416	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HSS Club, I request a 30-minute break for the reason that at last night's session you were not present, and the session was led by the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Luka Bebić, a seriously broken Rules of Procedure and this article 223a. Since, at the request of the HSS Club submitted by an authorised representative, the Vice-President of the Club, who is duly reasoned and who has duly requested the length of the break, this break is not authorised. We believe that in this way the Rules of Procedure are being broken precisely by those of whom at least one must be violated by the President and Vice-President of the Parliament. Please pause for 30 minutes to take a stand as a club and take a stand here at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19417	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19418	On behalf of the SDP Club, I am also looking for a half-hour break for the same reasons stated by my colleague Zlatko Tomcic. I think that a precedent was made last night in the Croatian Parliament, that for the first time, at a request that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the club was not approved. I think it's something that we at the club have to discuss and see further and in what way we work in this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19419	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19420	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yesterday, as some of my predecessors mentioned, there was a brutal violation of the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Article 205 have been offended and, as Mr Tomcic mentioned, Article 233. The spirit of the Rules of Procedure has been questioned entirely. The purpose of opposition proposals by self-advised interpretation of the chairman at that time, Mr. Bebic, was also questioned. The opposition's participation in such a parliament is becoming increasingly questionable. The marginalisation of the parliamentary minority by the majority is at work, the marginalisation of parliamentary jurisdiction is in place. We certainly do not contribute to this House, nor the credibility of the Parliament, nor the earth as a whole. That's how we hurt everyone. As a citizen of the County of Istria, I am also interested in full information about the events in Piran Bay – Savudrija Vali.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19421	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because yesterday's article 205 was broken. The Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and because the agenda of this session was not respected, I request a 30 minute break on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19423	Thank you. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the Club Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19424	Now, on behalf of the Libre Club, I'm also looking for a 30-minute break for the same reason, so we think that last night was a serious violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I think it's a matter of discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19425	And a respected representative, a change. Dear Representative, Vice President Luka Bebic on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19426	Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Community is also seeking a break, a 10 minute break in respect of Article 205. The HSS Club has requested an indication of the Constitution Committee within 24 hours and I hope it is done. Therefore, this all here stringing of requests, with regard to violations of the Rules of Procedure, will be discussed on the Committee on the Constitution and the Croatian Parliament's report. I claim that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, because for the agenda point that was delayed was not a representative of the Government, and it was the discretionary right of the President to decide and I decided so, and the proposal was the subsequent unsettled HSS, I called an unsettled proposal for a break as you all heard last night, by obstructing the work of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19427	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19428	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's not a beating, but I still have to correct Vice President Luke Bebić's allegations. We did not ask for a break for a violation of Article 205 but 233a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19429	On behalf of the HSP Club, counterpart Tonci Tadic spoke on behalf of his colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19430	No, you're wrong. Here you go, breaking the Rules of Procedure again. He answered for information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19431	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19432	I beg your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19433	The Honorable representative, Tonci Tadic, spoke. On behalf of the club can speak one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19434	No, I don't. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19435	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19436	Here's a session as the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19437	You won't be teaching me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19438	And I will, when you don't lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19439	I'm in charge of this session properly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19440	Please take a break on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19441	Mr. Tonci Tadic has requested... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, one can speak for the club, remember that. ... One can speak on behalf of the club by the Rules of Procedure, not two, not three. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, gentlemen, you won't hear from me again. First of all, with regard to the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP to ensure the presence of the Minister of Interior to give full information about, and the latest incidents that took place in Savudrija Vala, I accept this and during the day I will ensure that the Ministry of Interior provides the Croatian Parliament with one complete information regarding both this incident and other incidents. Secondly, as regards your proposal submitted on 10.9th on the Proposal for a Resolution on the principles of interstate negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the Republic of Slovenia on 10.9th, I will put it in line with the Rules of Procedure and put it on the agenda. ... Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, to be included in the agenda, and given the requests of other clubs that are related to the objections that yesterday, Vice-President Bebić, the leading session, was injured by the Rules of Procedure, which, in the event of disagreement with him at the request of the HSP Club, was to give his opinion to the Committee on, the HSS, pardon, to give his opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are obliged to give an opinion. I call on the Committee President to call on the Committee's meeting as soon as possible, to give its opinion on this recommendation and on whether or not this is a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure by the Chairman, I will not prejudge anything, so when we get that opinion, we will vote on it. Now I'm setting a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19442	Mr. President, I would ask you on behalf of the IDS Club to establish, as appropriate, Article 205(2) at the beginning of the agenda on which the points will be discussed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19443	You can't get a word in. Thank you very much. I've ordered a 30-minute break from my colleague Tadic. ... You got a 30-minute break. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You got a 30-minute break, too. Listen up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session's work. I pray on behalf of the HSP Club, the respected representative of Peru Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19445	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. In connection with last night's event in the debate on the Bill of Debt Reimbursement Act, the HSP Club also joins the demands of all opposition parties because we also believe that the Rules of Procedure were violated and that there was also a need to give a break of 10, 15 minutes as much as requested. We think that in such situations when a club related to particularly important topics such as the question of pensioners requires a break that, or a break that the chairman should always listen to this request, satisfy this request and give the possibility. Because in this way we allow the Rules of Procedure to be implemented, we allow for a statement on all important matters, and not that we then come into a situation where the request is rejected without any valid explanation and that, in fact, the Rules of Procedure, the Force of Democracy, that we come into situations to interpret the Rules of Procedure as to who it suits. It's the worst thing that can happen in one Parliament. So the worst thing is to interpret the Rules of Procedure as to whom it suits. Once we have an extensive interpretation, a second time a constructive interpretation, but this is what the chairman should not allow, and that is also where we have to agree and we suggest that these things be discussed soon, if not immediately, at the session of the Bureau of Parliament. To agree precisely how and in what way not to take time for important debates, when such situations occur. And that what happened last night wouldn't be allowed. First, we had a variant that the SDP Club proposal was skipped because the government's opinion did not come about the amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyership. At the end of the day, we hear that he, on the radio in the morning, heard that the opinion had come. It seems to us that it was precisely the intention to discuss debt returns to pensioners without the presence of television transmission. That's why, I say, we join and demand that the correct rules be prescribed, that no Rules of Procedure be interpreted as fit and in situations such as when searching for breaks and other situations that there is no interpretation. And that you're basically the chairman doesn't allow great comment. Is the truth for the will, everyone who holds the presidency allows themselves in a way that they take, and they have no business right to respond politically to those step-by-step MPs, to point out their political will, which we also find unacceptable because if the chairman wants to speak, let him answer the word and speak normally for the speaker. Because then all the other MPs get into a situation, it's impossible to replicate or correct the wrong allegations and something else, and in our view it's the same kind of abuse of the Rules of Procedure. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19446	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19447	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The fundamental assumption of the orderly and constructive functioning of the Assembly is respect for the Rules of Procedure, business practices, parliamentary practices and the rules of democracy that are, and parliamentaryism that are common in parliaments. The conduct of everyone in this regard should first and foremost be controlled, but also led by the president and the chairman. In the previous work of the 5th Assembly, it seems to me that in the best way we have actually confirmed what this House is for, this Parliament has a low reputation in the Croatian public. I'll just remind you of a few details. The chairmans often took the right to comment from the chair, assess politically, and thus actually bring the other parliamentary deputies into an inferior position. The chairman of this matter is not entitled under the Rules of Procedure. On several occasions a word was taken away from the various MPs or was tried, tried to take away words. According to the Rules of Procedure, when the chairman's speaker is estimated to be moving away from the topic. This business provision must not be interpreted in this way because this actually introduces a new type of controlled exposure, i.e. the presentation of what corresponds to the chairman. It is selectively accessible on several occasions and punishing the basis of the Rules of Procedure. More than once, it is inadmissible, even from the chair they could hear really dirty expressions that are not suitable for the parliament of a serious state. I repeat them, of course, for understandable reasons I won't. They were written in phonograms and the Croatian public heard them. The peak of parliamentary indemnity and self-will occurred last night when, as I have already said, it was a serious violation of Rule 223a of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone who wants to read it in detail. "The chairman has no right to arbitration at the request of the club of representatives and must approve a break of a minimum of 10, a maximum of 30 minutes." We at the HSS Club estimate that under the circumstances as I have cited them, there are no elementary conditions for this House to fulfil its constitutional obligation, obligations to, and obligations to, the Croatian public. We estimate that without a serious twist in the practice of holding a session, respecting the Rules of Procedure will actually come to even lower branches in the reputation of the Croatian public, and we will not perform our constitutional function and function towards the Croatian public. That's why, Mr. President, I suggest you take advantage of Article 37. Rules of Procedure, to schedule a joint session of the presidents of the clubs and the Bureau of Parliament, and in Article 37 thereof. The Rules of Procedure say the Bureau of Parliament and the presidents of MP clubs are discussing issues of importance for the work of the Parliament. What I have stated is very important for the work of the Parliament. So please accept our request. We suggest that the session be suspended, that at the moment a session of the extended Bureau of Parliament is scheduled, that we try to reach some agreed rules, a minimum "fair play" between the position and the opposition in this House. I assure you that otherwise outwitting the foundations of the Rules of Procedure, the abuse of time, the dysfunctional use of time will not thus achieve what we must achieve for the Croatian public and Croatian citizens. So, once again, that is why I request an end to the session, I request an extension of the Bureau's session and a debate on matters of importance for the work of the Parliament, based on Article 37. Rules of Procedure, which Mr. President you're right to. I believe that you will accept this request and request for a very simple reason why I believe that you, as well as we, care for the orderly parliamentary and functional functioning of this House. Otherwise, of course, we'll know how to respond in a way that I don't want to present right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19448	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19449	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Last night, somewhere, about half past seven, about half an hour before the end of our workday, a situation happened again where the agenda points were skipped without business needs. Just because the parliamentary majority has decided that a topic that is not acceptable to it is that it wants to be discussed at a time when there are no television cameras. On the other hand, it should be said that this is, therefore, another situation again and whatever the parliamentary majority has in Parliament and whatever it thinks, we in the SDP don't think it implies that it has to enforce force over the minority when it comes to discussing some issues and suffocating any possibility for the minority to express its views. The more we are all representatives of Croatian citizens here and we are obliged to make their views known, the more we are not here for ourselves, we are chosen here by a certain electoral body, we are chosen by those who voted for us and these people expect us to work in this House but also to express their opinions, their views and to fight for their interests. Indeed, in this House, the Rules of Procedure are not equal for all parties, it has one value for parties from the majority and has another value for parties from opposition parties. We've seen this a few times already because we've had our word taken from the opposition lines every time the President's desk estimated that we've gone off the table, and every time we've actually talked about those topics that concern the country's standards and future, and apparently the assessment was that we shouldn't be talking about it here. It is precisely because we want to work in Parliament, but we also want the rules in this House to apply equally to everyone, on behalf of the SDP Club to end the work of the session, to convene the Presidency of the Parliament, extended to the presidents of the Clubs, and to discuss at this session how to continue working in this Parliament, how to enable everyone in this Parliament to have the right to express their views and opinions in the name of their electoral body. If we do not allow and call a session of the extended Presidency, we of the SDP Club will consider our further activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19450	Thank you. The IDS Club is a respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19451	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. The IDS Club also joins requests from other opposition clubs to hold an extended Presidency of all parliamentary parties during the day. We also ask that the error he made during yesterday's session be corrected by the Honorable Vice President Bebic and to discuss the IDS proposal for a bill on the return of debt to pensioners. We believe there was a "huge rape" of the Rules of Procedure yesterday. The provision of Article 205 was violated when the IDS injured a provision 233rd position, which Mr Tomcic mentioned earlier. One word of action is the boycott of opposition proposals. 7 or 8 days ago, this happened with the SDP's proposal to discuss the IMF last night with the IDS proposal to discuss the return of debt to pensioners. Why does that seem? So first of all to hide the truth, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are being held in a kind of informational blockade, then why does it seem? Because obviously the answer to some specific life, economic, social, existential issues. I do not envy the government for the problems it faces, however, parliamentary officials, but I will not mention anyone, nor will it help the government if they play a boycott of opposition proposals or help this boycott with the credibility of this institution. This concealment of truth in the return of pensioners I interpret first and foremost in a way that the government simply does not intend to make that return. Will she admit that she can't do that? We'll have to wait a little while. If, however, such a practice continues and clearly will, the Parliament will continue to lose its dignity, credibility, representativeness, which it must have at all times in this country. Surely most of them are, and I absolutely respect it, most of them make decisions, she decides on the agenda, she decides which amendments she will adopt or won't, which the laws will miss and so on, but cannot "terrorise the minority". The Parliament works as usual until 7:00, but usually at 7:00, there's no media in this House. That clearly doesn't care about the chairman, but it already says he's playing in the agenda, turning himself into a kind of "violence". The final repayment of debt is a topic that directly entangles 700 thousand Croatian pensioners, it is a topic that led to power, it is a topic that makes the government form, so once again I will say let us discuss this subject and correct the mistake. And colleagues from the government, here I mean HDZ, HSU and HSLS and DC and minorities, etc., I also ask you that because of your collegiation you do not allow such practice, rebel yourself because of this practice, because in order for you to feel that you are in our position. It was not an IDS proposal as it could be heard yesterday by politics, the IDS put the proposal in the parliamentary procedure at the request of the queen, politics was something else, when the queen gave up the proposal and satisfactorily on the supervisory committees by the ruling majority. To end the purpose of opposition proposals with such will in one way is questioned, participation in work in such conditions is also questionable if the marginalisation of the opposition is at work. However, the opposition in this home still has 48 or 47% of mandates, and you will all agree that this is a respectable number, and with those 48% of mandates is not to be played, and therefore we hold that we should respect the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, so marginalising the opposition leads to the marginalization of this House and then clearly questioned the constitutional positions of this House over which we were once taught can only be God. We are looking for an extended presidency, we are looking for a debate on the IDS proposal and that, in accordance with Article 205, which will be on the agenda, there can be no double standards, one for gentlemen in power and the other for opposition because it simply does not contribute either to the collegiation or to the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19452	Thank you very much. Agent Cain, by your qualification and claim that most terrorise the minority, without quotes or with quotes, you have offended all political parties that form the ruling majority. I give you a warning. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club PGS. You have no right, you have no right, you have no right, you have no right to compromise with the president, because there is no debate at all, it is executive and it is not debated. Mr. Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19453	Dear Mr. President, we asked for a break from our club because during yesterday's assembly session, two times the Rules of Procedure was injured, and the first morning when, in accordance with Article 205(2), no points were announced that would be on the agenda yesterday. The second time, when without any explanation, the established agenda was skipped, and the third infringement of the agenda was precisely that the table chaired and those who handled the work of the Parliament did not ensure the presence of the government representatives so that the points could be discussed. Whether it's an accident or not, on purpose or not, it doesn't matter to me. But it is that there is a deliberate lack of conditions for respecting the established agenda. When yesterday, and this has happened again, it was said that it was the terror of the majority over the minority that was declared an insult and was warned about it. When we had about a week ago a similar case of skipping the agenda after two, three formal arguments, the President of the Parliament finally made it clear that such a decision was made by the parliamentary majority and that it respects and implements the parliamentary majority's decision. That was said here only a few days ago. Therefore, it was confirmed that the parliamentary majority's decision to make one item on the agenda had gone beyond the other. Was this case the parliamentary majority's decision? If it can't be called terror? Then I wonder what it's really about? Is this about the discomfort over the topic that should be discussed? Is it a public fear that these same topics are not being discussed in public? Is this about panic over the results of the election, or the polling of individual parties? Or is it simply about proving power by using the mechanisms of haughtiness? My colleagues have already made a request. I have a feeling that something important, urgent you want to say, I can give you a pay phone for a minute, two. They asked for an extended presidency to meet, to establish this extremely important issue as a constant rule of conduct in this assembly, and not to hold a plenary session during that time. This is the right of the President in the Rules of Procedure. I call on the president to exercise his right and thus the reasons for our dissatisfaction and these problems and this constant disgrace in front of the Croatian public to simply prevent opposition parties and clubs from having a debate on topics that are included in the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at least on an equal basis with those proposals put forward by the Government in this House. It is a minimum effort by President-in-Office with such behaviour and by calling on the Bureau's session to remove any doubts that the parliamentary majority would possibly want to terrorise the minority in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19454	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Željko Pavlic on behalf of the Club Libre. You, Mr. Pavlic, signed up and announced. What's the problem now?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19455	I announced the break, so the search for a break on behalf of the Club Libre, and on behalf of the Club Libre will now speak for Mr. Jozo Radoš, president of the Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19456	That's what you should have told me, then. It can't be like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19457	I told the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19458	Here's your colleague, Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19459	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre several views, of course, of what colleagues from the opposition clubs said. First of all, it has not been and should not be questioned by the club's position to, to get a break. It's never been gotten into before. What are the reasons, whether it is used in one way or another, that can be discussed and possibly changed by the Rules of Procedure, but it seems to me a good practice, even though of course it sometimes seems tiring, but it should not be touched, especially not while the Rules of Procedure is so. And I don't think what happened last night was even on the trail of this good practice that we sometimes call upon, but it was also an explicit violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This exit that is often used, which is that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system gives its position, that exit as if it does not exist. The committee has always given the position held by the president of the Parliament so far. It's formal, it's okay, so be it. But it has no real democratic content in it. The committee is the same, as it has most parliamentary majority of the entire parliament. And he also demonstrates the will of the majority, and in fact, it itself is no solution. I'm saying that's okay, that's how it's supposed to be, but we can't call on it, that's not the end of the story. It is only a formal right after that nothing actually happens, that committee always reacts in the same way as the parliamentary majority reacts. So it should be, but it's not a manifestation of full freedom and the work of this Parliament. So I'm totally at the positions of our colleagues at the HSS Club and all those clubs that were looking for a break, and they didn't get it for any reason. The second thing that happened last night was actually the first time, and it shouldn't happen, it is that one law has been discussed in this Croatian Assembly without a proposing. The promoter was not in the assembly, he was not talking about the law, and the law was discussed and was therefore absorbed in this divided part of the parliament. It can't be like that. Of course this is to be resolved, it is not very simple, there are important issues proposed by the Government, which also need the public presence, but cannot be discussed in such a way without the consent of the motionor and without its presence. That can't happen. And for this reason, I believe that the clubs that have proposed to convene a session of the extended Bureau of Parliament have a good proposal and I support this proposal on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre. But now I would just point out one fact that further confirms the need for such a meeting to take place, which is taking the word off topic. It has not yet occurred in this House that this word has been taken away from someone who is a member of the majority party. That says something in itself. It's very dangerous to intervene in when someone is speaking a little wider or speaking a little more semi-economy, and it doesn't offend anyone, to take away his word and it's on behalf of the club especially. It's something very, very dangerous, and usually it happened, I have to say it when the president didn't like the contents of what was said or style. Style is possible if it is out of the box solved by warning, but it cannot be taken away by word and it must not happen. It is the right of the ruling majority to decide on their clubs however they will, but it must not question those gains that we have achieved, and we have more in front of us in the work of the Croatian Parliament. These few things are absolutely negatively new in the work of the Croatian Parliament, and therefore I suggest that, i.e. I agree with my colleagues to interrupt the session of the Croatian Parliament, and on all these issues and on some other issues that are important for the work of the Parliament hold a session of the Presidency with the club presidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19460	Thank you. and respected deputy president of the home, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In this House, some parties have been obstructing the work of the Parliament for a long time. I also found this at last session, because then, on the agenda, it cannot be proposed or discussed the proposals that we are obliged to discuss both with the European Union and with many of the laws that we have to pass within a certain period, because it is lagged with some proposals which, in the opinion of my Club, are, for example, this last night which is controversial and where, in order for the law to be proposed, it is necessary and the means to secure and then be easily put into place that it will be from the state budget, so the funds are secured. According to the Rules of Procedure, which should satisfy a single draft proposal and that it would be on the agenda at all. As far as my Club is concerned, my Club suggests that this Parliament works normally, that it works in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with all other regulations, and that the agenda points will come to the agenda so that there will be a normal order of discussion on the agenda points. In view of these two points of the agenda yesterday. I have to tell you that no member of 205 was injured because you quoted him yourself last night when you said, here's Mr. Lesar said he was hurt twice, but in article 205 says, "At the beginning of every working day of the session, the president generally announces which order will be done.". As a rule, but not necessarily, the Rules of Procedure have not been broken in that section. And two. During the session, it may exceptionally change the order of debate and decision if there is no report for each item of the agenda... the working bodies that were, the promoter which was also a government that was not there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's in accordance with Rule 205 of the Rules of Procedure, and I've decided what I've decided. With the SDP's opposition proposal announced as the first item of the agenda this morning. So, we don't ignore opposition initiatives and say we'll try to ensure the presence of government representatives. As for requesting a five-minute break, he says it is necessary to state the reasons why he is seeking a break and a proposal for the length of its duration. There were no reasons here, after five minutes of discussion, for those four who asked for a break. So Mrs. Lalic, who suggested it, says: "The 5-minute talks happened, some words were said, "The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party, the peasant parties are asking for a 15-minute break. What words, what things happened in those five minutes? I rated it as again an attempt to obstruct Parliament's work because I said, because then no session would end because someone would always have the right to ask for 15 minutes or 20 minutes and that would not be possible. Therefore, I have assessed and I stand behind it and now after 18 hours that it was an attempt to obstruct the work of the Assembly because the HSS Club could have sought as well as everyone else and they got those five minutes of their own. Well, I don't think I was wrong about that, so let the appropriate attitudes be taken. And I ask Mr. Cain's representatives and qualifications that he is here in the act of terror of the parliamentary majority over the minority I said that he is not the terror of the parliamentary majority over the minority and that I do not think that all democracy is in the decision of the minority, the majority, but I also said that there is even less democracy if under pressure or potential terrorism of the minority, I said. I'm not saying that Parliament's majority is something that's the only thing, but it also has some kind of permanent greater rights than there are minorities, and that's just like you admitted in your own, in your presentations, a normal thing. Of course, nothing that is in line with the Rules of Procedure will be ignored, and in one case and another, I have made a decision, and I am deeply convinced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, especially when I have said that my opinion is that there is an obstruction of the work of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19462	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected Vice-President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19463	Due to the integrity of this institution that we would have to guard, he has been injured, I warn that the injured Rules of Procedure in Article 214 is repeated when, as a reason for giving the warning or as an insult, the term "terror" of the majority above the minority is qualified. It is not an insult and cannot be treated as an insult, it is a technical term, and this House would have to know that this is a technical term used first by Detokville and James Madison's fathers of modern democracy and thought that parliaments would be the institutions that would safeguard democracy and prevent the terror of the majority over the minority as a technical term. And I think it's offensive for this Parliament to treat it, one simply known term from the foundation of democracy to be treated as an insult and beg that it doesn't seem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19464	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President and MPs, you called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and called for Article 214 to be injured. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that article is not injured. You have not indicated who it is, you have responded to the presentation of HDZ Club President, Mr. Representative Luke Bebić, with the claim that it is not an injury to the reputation of MPs or parties if something is devalued by the terror of the majority's behaviour. It's no violation of the Rules of Procedure, you've polluted with his position and with his opinion, it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and that's why I'm obliged to give you a warning. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19465	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. May I? May I? The esteemed vice president of Luka Babybic. [[/Intruder: Please!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19466	Go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19467	The esteemed Vice-President Luka Bebic mentioned on two occasions the opposition's obstruction was part of and then part of it was about the minority's obstruction over the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19468	What's his quote you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19469	That's the wrong quote! That's the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19470	What's his quote you're correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19471	This quote! There was no minority obstruction over most. The obstruction was at work by the chairman. Why? Because the chairman skipped the agenda. In this House, she was a representative of the SDP as a proposing law on attorneyship. There was also a proposal from the IDS. What, though, was the point? The marginalisation of the debate on the recovery of pensioners' debt and SDP's proposal should be the first on the agenda today and IDS should be discussed by half the night. It's obstruction!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19472	This comment and rating is a valuable assessment of Bebić's representative. Do not correct an incorrect quote!!- I'm sorry. Thank you very much. And respected representative Ljubica Lalić, correction of the incorrect allegations, prior to that, the respected representative Željka Antunović, the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19473	Mr. President, in these few minutes, you have injured the Rules of Procedure three times. Twice Article 214 when you are without a basis, because this article determines when the reminder is given first to Agent Kajin and after that, MP Pusic, who responded correctly and pointed to your injury to the Rules of Procedure. In the meantime, you also violated Rules of Procedure 209 when you were at the first intervention of your colleague Pusic, when she asked for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, when you disobeyed and you did not give her that word. You have in this way only confirmed that these protests and efforts of opposition are a peaceful way of introducing order and equal respect for the Rules of Procedure in this Chamber, that it is true, not obstruction, obstruction of the Croatian Parliament as it is imputed here, imputed to opposition. I have to use this and say that the claim that most have greater rights over the minority is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19474	This does not fall under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19475	Infringement of constitutional principles and of that, too
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19476	That doesn't belong, thank you very much. I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure because what you said was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I made warnings, and there is no debate about the warnings given by the President. They're executives. That's what you should know, so I'm telling you a warning too. And respected representative Ljubica Lalić, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19477	Thank you, Mr. President. I sincerely hope I get a warning to continue the sequence. It's incorrect, it's incorrect that I didn't state the reasons when I asked for a break. According to the article, Article 223a is true that a representative of the Club must state the reasons. I am a representative of the Club because I am the vice president of the Croatian Peasant Party's Club of Representatives and I cited the reasons. The reasons were that in 5 minutes of exposure as well as the president's reaction in the way he stepped in the right of MPs, the work of the Parliament was disrupted. Of course, I didn't have to explain in detail, but quite enough, just enough is enough to make it happen and say the words we're looking for a break. The explanation of the word and what it means, of course, to give in an explanation within 5 minutes, and the chair of the Rules of Procedure had no right to qualify whether or not there were reasons but under paragraph 3 he was obliged to approve the recess, however, it is obvious that
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19478	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19479	that it is in action
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19480	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19481	Democracy of the Poimans
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19482	Thank you very much, dear colleague, thank you very much, thank you very much. So here's the deal. So like this, I've listened very carefully to all the proposals, the initiatives, the objections of all the club MPs. First one chairing the session of the Croatian Parliament, the president or vice president under his authority is obliged to implement the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the core of the problem that is taking place here between the representatives of certain parties concerns the application of the Rules of Procedure. Neither the President of the Croatian Parliament nor the Vice-Presidents nor those who chair the chairman in another way interpret the Rules of Procedure but as it is written. If Article 205 states that the President of the Assembly or of the person or vice-president who replaces him with all the powers, rights and duties may, during the sitting, alter the debate or decision-making order if there is no report from the competent working body, if there is no proposing or if there is no Government, it is the discretionary right of the President to decide whether, whether or not to change or amend the order of debate on certain points of the agenda. It is his discretionary right that MPs can and do not have to agree with, but it is his discretionary right, and if he so decides, then his decision is executed and acted upon. Secondly, on this subject, if the Rules of Procedure say that a representative must stick to the subject, and that the chairman is obliged to warn and warn him if he deviates from the subject, then it is the matter of the chairman and his right to assess whether or not the representative has strayed from the subject because the Rules of Procedure so require. Yesterday, the entire opposition broke out about it, about the interpretation of whether the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Luka Bebić, at the request of the HSS Club, needed or should not or should not have hurt or not have injured the Rules of Procedure because he did not approve a break from the Club of Representatives of the HSS. We have just introduced a provision with the Rules of Procedure that, during the session, we have listed provisions in the Rules of Procedure when the chairman will not approve a session of the Club, and we have also stated to the Rules of Procedure that whoever asks for a session of the Club should explain the request. What is a valid, valid explanation is that the vice president did not agree that a valid explanation was given for the club's session. It's a simple political fact and the club, the HSS Club, disagreed and agreed. He argued that Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Bebic, injured the Rules of Procedure because he was obliged to give the HSS Club a break for the club's session. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, in the event of a disagreement between the chair and the representative or the Club of Representatives, in the event of a dispute whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure by the President, Article 209 shall take place. Rules of Procedure. The president gave an explanation to which, and the opinion that he did not injure the Rules of Procedure by holding an unfounded assessment of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and his explanation was not satisfied with the Club of Representatives of the HSS and was asked to give its opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which is obliged to give its opinion within 24 hours. The Chair of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System convened a meeting of the Committee today at 13.30 p.m. in Josip Jelačić's hall with the agenda for giving an opinion on the basis of Article 209. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system will give their opinion in the event of this opposition to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure on which the Croatian Parliament will receive that opinion on the basis of Article 209(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure decide without debate. That's the situation around this alleged yes or no harm to the Rules of Procedure. For these reasons, since, under Article 205 of the President of the Parliament or of the President, he or she has discretionary powers to change the order of the debate. To change the order of the debate if there is no report by the working body, the applicant's representative, for each item of the agenda Please, I suppose you'll allow me, gentlemen, I didn't disturb you and throw you away when you were making your point. [[The intruders don't understand.]] Well, then I pray that you don't do it to me either. Therefore, the President of the Parliament, or the Vice-President yesterday, who has all the powers, acted in my view to amend the order of the established agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And so I have no intention of interrupting the Assembly session for now, and I have no intention at all, and I will not interrupt the session of the Parliament. When I assess, I'll call a session extended to the presidents of all clubs. But I will not interrupt it now because it would interrupt the work of the Croatian Parliament. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19483	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have violated Article 209. Why, you took the exclusive right to interpret the Rules of Procedure. This Rules of Procedure does not give you the right, but only to apply, the interpretation of Rules of Procedure has been given to the Parliament and the Committee on the Constitution. And the conflict in the Parliament on the importance of topics and order is not a conflict over the Rules of Procedure but on priorities of the subject. So it cannot qualify what the opposition considers to be a priority for its political reasons, or for the MPs they represent, that it is a distraction of the work of the Parliament. Therefore, the opposition has both the right and the duty to propose, according to its priorities, this House debate and should not be taken away from it. Because by obstruction...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19484	Now you're polymizing not with me, but with a representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19485	That me and everyone because you took it as your right and you don't give us the opportunity to discuss your evaluations as to how the Rules of Procedure is applied. You yourself took the right to interpret and interpret it. That's not... [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19486	Thank you very much. I do not agree with you, if any representative who reports for breach of the Rules of Procedure with the claim that I have injured the Rules of Procedure can do the same if I do not agree, you may express your disagreement, and I will again, in accordance with Article 209, resolve the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. To give its opinion and then to the Committee's opinion, it will take a decision without debate. Mr. Vice-President Mato Arlovic also violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19487	Mr. President, Article 205(2) has been injured. You have made a statement that it is the discretionary right of the president or chair that he can change the order of debate or decision which is not true. In the last sentence, I quote paragraph 2, it is prescribed, "In the course of the session it can exceptionally change the order of the debate" and now comes business insight. If there are no reports of competent working authorities, applicants or governments for each item of the agenda. This is therefore not about discretionary law, but about business opportunities when business conditions are met and not discretionary law, and in this respect you have violated the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19488	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also give you a warning. Because neither did I hurt the Rules of Procedure by quoting how you can claim that I hurt the Rules of Procedure by quoting Article 205(2) of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. And distinguished representative Zlatko Tomcic is in violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19489	No, Mr. President, I answered on behalf of the club. On behalf of the club, I answered. I didn't raise a single plate of hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19490	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19491	I can talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19492	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19493	Mr. President, on behalf of the club, I'm looking for a half-hour break from the HSS Club. With the next explanation. In your final presentation, you have very well identified a direct cause for what this situation has created in the Parliament. But you haven't properly identified the reasons. The reasons are more numerous, I cited them in my presentation on behalf of the Club, and I said that the chairman often used the discretionary right to give political evaluations. I was saying that, without reason, the president's discretionary assessment is taking away the words of the MPs. I said that the Rules of Procedure apply selectively when it comes to certain criminal measures against MPs. I was talking about unencumbered dirty expressions in this House. It's all in total and other things that were actually the overall reasons why we suggested on behalf of the HSS Club to break up. To hold an extended session of the presidency, to try to find a minimum dose of ferpley for the effective work of this Assembly. That at the end of the institution some standards of conduct, and the days we come constantly into the situation to compete here in front of TV cameras and in front of the Croatian public, about interpreting this or that item of this or that item of the Rules of Procedure. Since we are dissatisfied with your decision, since we are assessing that you have not taken advantage of a very well-intentioned chance that we have offered, in a peaceful parliamentary democratic way to resolve this situation, I am asking for a break on behalf of the Club of 30 minutes, the HSS Club to take their stand on these latest developments in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19494	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Mato Arlovic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19495	Mr. President, you have violated Article 32(1), subparagraph 18, on the rights, which speak of the rights and duties of the President of the Parliament, who, among other things, cares about the protection of the rights and the fulfilment of the duties of the defendants. Mr. President, in your address to the House, you quoted article 205 when you spoke about the discretionary right of the chairman that he could change the order of debate. And in this regard, it was my duty to warn you that you have broken the Rules of Procedure, and at the same time, instead of protecting my right and my duty to worry about the conduct of the Rules of Procedure in this House, you have given me a warning which I particularly thank you for. Because it would be an honor to be with all these colleagues who for reasons of fighting for the right to democratic establishment and democratic work of this House have been warned. And I think that it would be very good for the President of the Parliament to protect the integrity of this House and to protect democracy in this House, and to protect the rights of all MPs really to interrupt the session and call the House Presidency extended with club presidents. YES, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Article 37, they shall enable and agree on a way of working further.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19496	Thank you very much. I again give you a warning because your reference to me to care for the protection and exercise of the rights of officials is no violation of the Rules of Procedure. And finally, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am not going to question this raise of hands any more in this way and question the integrity of this House where it simply raises its hands and now President-in-Office of the Parliament should decrypt everyone's wishes, give them any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, whether they want a debate on behalf of the club. It is in my view one attempt to obstruct the work of the Croatian Parliament. I won't approve of the HSS Club because a representative of the HSS Club said he was looking for a break because he was unhappy with my explanations about the application of the Rules of Procedure. This is not a valid explanation for seeking and approving a break. Let's not allow any more, because it is an obstruction and you will no longer allow me with various violations of the Rules of Procedure to obstruct the work of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. According to the agenda now would be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, the Proposer of the IDS Representatives Club. Since the parent committee has not taken its stand. Here you go, pal Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19498	Your Honor, Mr. President, I think it is the work and violation of the Rules of Procedure of Article 205(2), but the IDS Club is also seeking a break, a break of at least 30 minutes so that it can demonstrate this unusual behaviour of the Croatian Parliament. I don't want to say, this time, Mr. President, that there is an IDS obstruction at work because last night we have been denied the debate on the Reimbursement of Pensioners' Debt Act, and today the debate on road safety is being postponed and everything about the harmful, unnatural, absurd provisions on 0.0 promiscuous. It's not about obstruction of IDS or opposition, I'd say it's an obstruction of gentlemen of common sense. In action is something that is extremely serious, I think the fear of facing the truth is in action, and it is said that simply at this moment the Government is unable to make a return on either side of the pensioner's debt and on the other hand that it wants to exclude the public from its unfavourable provisions of 0.0 promiscations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19499	You asked for a break, thank you very much. Mr. Cain, you have no more words, it's past your time, you've asked for a break, in two minutes you've explained the reasons for asking for a break and thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19500	Mr. President, since I see that there is State Secretary Mr. Ivić, does this mean that you are planning to hold a debate in deaf nights on our proposal for a Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families. You know for yourself how many defenders of the families of the dead are interested and for our law to finally have the debate but with the public's presence to know everything and how, because we know ourselves what the situation is that the Government has not established its proposal to this day. And in that sense, if that's true, we're looking for a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19501	It's true, this bill of yours is on the agenda. Ten minutes at the request of the IDS and HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19502	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. I'd like a representative of the IDS Club of Honored Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. Your Honor, Mr. President, Secretary of State, gentlemen of the Parliament. As I said, I will repeat, I do not want to say that there is a special obstruction of my party in action, because last night we were not allowed to discuss the Reimbursement Act for pensioners, that is, during today, and yet again, we are being delayed and debated about an absurdly unnatural and harmful provision of 0.0 passed. No, it's not about obstruction of IDS, it's about obstruction of common sense. It's working like I just said something a little bit more serious. The fear of simply facing opposition proposals, or truth, in this assembly. Like the state, the government is unable to repay the debt to the pensioners, i.e. it wants to be re-exclusive to the public that, for her otherwise interesting topics about 0.0 romilas. Otherwise, we own the government's opinion. Right, that opinion is what it is, I'll say absurdly but there is. The committees also did the job, and if some did not, then it means that there was a conscious obstruction of this law. So Mr. Bebic is wrong when he tells us that the minority is the one who obstructs most. On the contrary, it is most of us who are obstructing the minority and our legal proposals. and this is the best example of this Road Safety Act. However, this 0.0 prominence law affects 2 million citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so many citizens have driver's license. The Reimbursement of Retirement Debt Act represents 700 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We don't want to get in the car and have more than 0.0 proms. The captain of the ship on the other side can drive a tanker with 60,000 gross gas or oil of 0.5 permeations, but the car can't even go with 0.1 promil. We have gentlemen fines in our Law on Road Safety that are incomparably greater than in one Germany. It is also absurd that we are knowingly harming the state budget through this 0,0 provision. Why? Because we will never fill our budget with penalties in the way we can enable excise duty to enable our winemakers, the caterers, the brewers, etc. But the point is in the next. That he does not want to open the debate in this House again. And why is that? Because of the fact that he doesn't want to admit the stupidity that was done in this home four or five months ago. Croatian gentlemen are not Kuwait, Croatia is not Saudi Arabia, so we cannot be tolerated by those who drive 0.5 promila. Well, that's what everybody's got. And that's why we're asking for those 0.5 proms back. Why wasn't the Maritime Committee ambushed, and there was a discussion on that committee twice? Well, you know, it wouldn't just be against the government. On the one hand, a group of 2 million inhabitants of the Republic of Croatia may be resented, but neither can the Government. I don't think that's correct. The whole of Europe has 0.5 prominences west, Switzerland, Great Britain 0.8, and we are knowingly harming our own economy. Finally, what are we gentlemen? Why are we doing damage to our economy, why are we doing damage to our economy, our budget, etc.? Finally, let us take the advice, the recommendation of the European Union. They say, it can be, that it is normal to tolerate 0.5 permeations to young drivers, or to professionals 0.2 permeates. This law, by my judgment, is against common sense, against customs, and does not ultimately affect the number of victims in this country. You don't have on the other hand, gentlemen of most rights or violate the Rules of Procedure. You are obliged to stick to the proposed agenda. But you also have no right to enter customs and economic grounds of this country. You will destroy our tourism, damage our citizens, drive away foreign tourists, and in the end we will all have to change the law together in this home. Why don't we do it today or in 7 days, why our citizens have to suffer another 2 or 3 months, and we're aware that we're going to have to change this legislation. And so I call upon you, give us a chance to discuss it and change that absurd 0-0 standard during today. Let us approach the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. almost 2 million people who have driver's license in this country. The sooner we change that law, the less damage it will be to this country's economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19504	Thank you very much, Mr. Caine, the Croatian Parliament has passed this law. Is it appropriate to call one law stupidity by the one who brought it, that's another thing, I leave it to your conscience. So there are no business conditions for this proposal. Just as it does not comply with Article 205 of the Rules of Procedure for the next draft law on the Agency for Planning, Management, Management and Control of the Coastal Area and the Maritime Goods, because we do not have a representative of the Government. I'm using the right of Article 205 to be a representative of the government. What he's coming to is his business, but he won't start the debate while he's gone. For the next proposal of the Animal Welfare Act, there is no applicant in the House of Representatives of Banca. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work on the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament For today, the following would be foreseen. Last week we were unable to ensure the presence of the Ministry of the Interior, today we secured State Secretary Ivica Buconjic as he is the foreign minister who will provide information in the Assembly on the proposal of the HSP Club on all these incidents related to the Savudrija wave. Thus, the whole complex of these issues on what is being done and how the Ministry of the Interior works and what political moves have been made regarding these provoked incidents. At 15.00, I called on the EU's High Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr Vethojgen, to address the 30-minute presentation to the Croatian Parliament, on all relevant aspects and on both the EU's accession strategies towards Croatia's enlargement and Croatia's entry into the European Union. After this presentation, and this information provided by State Secretary Mr. Buconjic would move to a debate according to the consolidated text of the agenda, with the proposal for a law number 151 of the IDS Club having no business conditions for him since the committee in charge did not give its report. And we would therefore move on to the proposal for a Law on Animal Wellbeing, Bill No 125 and thereafter to the Proposal for a Law amending the minimum protection measures in business with cash and values. Proposal for a Law No 128, proposed by the HDSP Representatives Club. And after the presentation of EU Commissioners Guenter Verheugen at 1600 hours with a debate on the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and a new stand-by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. I ask Secretary of State of State of the Interior Ivica Buconjic to submit the information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19506	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here I will try to show you the chronological genealogy of the border incidents above all with the Republic of Slovenia, above all, on the sea side, and I will also mention several incidents that occurred at the land border. For the sake of understanding this problem I will, as I said, look briefly and to the history of Croatia's loneliness because it is important for understanding the origin of this problem primarily at sea but also on land. Therefore, the borders of the present Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia were established on 25 June 1991 and this constitutional decision on the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia and the fundamental constitutional truth on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia was established between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. Within the framework of the SFRY, it becomes a state border between the two states. So this was the basis on which the interstate borders between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia were to be established. The interstate agreement needed to establish a border line so that the land next to the border line belonged to the state area of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, without supporting land particles. Already at that time of isolation and separation in this principle, there were certain disputed areas because they had incorrectly defined the criteria for establishing the border line between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia. Since certain areas were also on land and on the sea, they were led in cadastrian documents and the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia, respectively, in certain border municipalities. Most of the border on both land and sea is undeniably undeniable, however, there are certain points that are disputed on land and above all can be found in the Savudrija vala. Afterwards, what affected the relations between the two countries on border points occurred in April 1997, when a border transport agreement was signed between Croatia and Slovenia and co-operation that practically regulated the way border traffic is handled for people living, staying and working in these areas. Following the signing of this border transport agreement and cooperation for its implementation, a permanent mixed commission was established in 2001 to implement the provisions of the border transport and co-operation agreement. On 10 September 2002, a meeting of government envoys led by the presidents of the then Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia was held in Zagreb, and the meeting agreed on the implementation of the provisions of Articles 47 to 52. Agreements on border transport and cooperation. These articles mainly referred to the issue of fishing between 47 and 52. And in September 2002, a permanent mixed commission adopted the code of conduct of fishermen as there were many frequent incidents until then. So these are some legal events that have affected these events that have followed between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia at their interstate border. I'm also going to give you a short genealogy of border incidents, since it hasn't been practical since independence in 1991. That's right, in 1992, there were four border incidents. In 1993, Umag police station carried out 206 services at sea, 75 on-shore services, and 9 border incidents were recorded in 1993. In 1994 there were 220 services at sea, 67 on land services, and 18 border incidents were recorded. In 1995, police at the border carried out 180 services at sea and 177 on land services were only two border incidents. In 1996, Croatian police at the border carried out 168 services on land and 230 on-shore services were in total three border incidents recorded by the border services of the Republic of Croatia. In 1997, the border police carried out 183 services on the mainland and no border line injuries were recorded or any border incident occurred. In 1998, there was an escalation again, 127 services were performed at sea, 137 on land services, there were 14 violations of the state border at sea, with the same participation of Slovenian police and boats on Slovenian fishermen in these incidents. In 1999, the Croatian police provided 165 services at sea, 232 on land services, and the trend of increasing border incidents continued that year. In fact, 35 violations of the state border were reported by Slovenian vessels at sea by the fact that they were again almost evenly represented and the police vessels of the Republic of Slovenia and the fishermen of Slovenian fishermen. In 2000 there were slightly less services at sea, so the Croatian police provided only 34 services at sea, it was evident that there was a significant decline in the number of police patrols and services carried out at sea, i.e. in previous years. So 34 services were carried out at sea, 254 on land services and 4 injuries to the Croatian state border at sea were registered. In 2001, 80 services were carried out at sea, 148 on-shore services and 31 infringements of the border line were recorded, 21 by Slovenian fishing vessels and 9 injuries by the Slovenian police vessel. In 2002, too, there was a major escalation of Croatian state border injuries. That year, the Croatian police performed 211 services at sea, 327 on land services, but 65 line injuries, border lines, were registered. So, 65 incidents occurred, all together until September 2, 2002. So, in 2002, there was a practical year in which there was a strong escalation of Croatian border injuries, above all at sea, and since there was a danger of further escalation and tightening, certain steps were taken and what I said in September 2002 were then the governments of the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia met and reached an agreement to implement the provisions of Articles 47 to 52. The SOPS relating to fishing and the permanent mixed commission adopted the code of conduct of fishermen where the rules of conduct of both Croatian and Slovenian fishermen were laid down in the Savudrija vala. Afterwards, there was a significant reduction in the number of incidents, since at that time practically Croatia decided that Croatian police did not intervene and act in Savudrija vala, but intervened vessels whose crew was made up of fishing inspectors of Slovenia and Croatia. We have here a document where the Department of the Borders of the Ministry of the Interior has sent a guide to the Umag Police Station, which controls the border in Savudrija vala, that practically does not act in any case, so there have been no incidents, since a new regime of behaviour has been established in Savudrija vala, and the Croatian police have been instructed not to intervene and act in Savudrija vala, but were operated by vessels with mixed crews of Slovenian and Croatian fishing inspectors. So, after September 2002, there was a significant decline in border incidents and in 2003 virtually no border incident was reported because of this regime that was established. Such a regime lasted until 1 May 2004 when Slovenia entered the European Union and then the Slovenian side stopped following this Code of Conduct and then there was a frequent breach of the border, first and foremost in the Gulf of Piran, and then we were all witnesses together that there were several serious incidents and on land. I can tell you, to count which were and how many incidents in 2004, so this year, with my particular emphasis, these are all the incidents that occurred after 1. 5. They were numerous, and they were the most serious of all the incidents that happened over all these years, practically since 1992, when they started to happen, so that's right, I'm just going to illustrate to you how these incidents happen. On October 5th, one vessel enters Croatian waters in 15.02, leaving Croatian territorial waters in 15.39. Second vessel entering 15.21, 15.50 coming out. The third vessel 15.54 enters, 1628 hours leaving the Savadria Wave, from Croatian territorial waters and what is particularly worrying, in all these incidents were practically fishers, but also a Slovenian police vessel, and this is a feature for this year, for the incidents that occurred this year, 2004 that very often the border was injured by a Slovenian police vessel in such a way as to enter, were for Slovenian vessels, which were located in the Croatian sea for their protection, whether it approached Croatian fishermen who were in the Croatian sea and warned them that they were in Slovenian territory. That's what was particularly worrying. We witnessed the same thing the other day when the contact of the Croatian police vessel and the Slovenian police vessel occurred practically. Fortunately, it ended without more serious incidents, but this is what the characteristics of these incidents in the past year mean where Slovenian police vessels often intervene in the Croatian territorial sea in a way to protect the entry of Slovenian fishermen into the Croatian sea or to approach Croatian fishermen and warn them that they are in the Slovenian territorial sea. It was also the two known incidents, of which it was best known, which took place at the border crossing of Poloni when the president of one Slovenian parliamentary party with a group of Slovenian states entered the territory of the Republic of Croatia, avoiding border control and trying to return to the Republic of Slovenia in the same way without border control. There was then an intervention by the Croatian police in the way you saw it, as the Slovenian side tried to abuse and exploit it, launching the news practically into all the world media and all the world's media recorded it. Afterwards, there were several more injuries, but as regards the incident, when the president of a parliamentary Slovenian party injured the state border, right after that on September 30th, there was a meeting of the Ministers of the Interior and Justice in Den Hague members of the European Union to whom the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Justice were invited, where former Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia Rado Bohin used his participation in the meeting to accuse the Republic of Croatia of causing a border incident, but what was particularly surprising for all, he tried to interpret the incident in a way that was caused by the Republic of Croatia and that it practically injured the external borders of Europe. So, they were not talking about violations of the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, they were trying to interpret the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Slovenia that Croatia caused an incident that damaged the external borders of the European Union. After that, I intervened immediately and explained what was going on. I can say that this intervention by the Minister of Interior of Slovenia came upon a great surprise from all those present and in later talks after the official part, it was practically a surprise that they considered this kind of treatment by the Minister of Interior of Slovenia when the obvious violation of the border line wanted to use it to in some way lead Croatia into conflict with the European Union. Also, the Minister of Interior of the Republic of Slovenia shared the tape of the border incident with foreign embassies, trying to document that the Croatian police were brutally treating Slovenian citizens, a thesis that the Slovenian media and Slovenian politicians had been dragging through for a long time. However, we also received feedback that everyone who saw this tape, even some high-ranking European Commission commissioners, said there was no brutality in the conduct of the Croatian police. If the Croatian police had acted civilisedly, in such a way that any police of any European state would have acted. So that attempt of theirs didn't work. After that the same incidents occur, we are practically witnessing daily. The last was when they tried to enter Croatia again, this time even more seriously in conflict with Europe, interpreting that a Croatian Navy vessel and a helicopter have injured the state territory of the Republic of Slovenia. However, they were denied by NATO footage showing that both the vessel and the helicopter were the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia several miles from the line of demarcation. Finally, after the termination of the Slovenian side of this Code since 1 May 2004. Croatian police are acting in any case in violation of the Croatian state border, whether on land, at sea, in the Savudrija Vala, and will act every time in the future. What is important in all of this is to point out that the Savadria Vala is practically very narrow. At the widest point, it's about 2.6 nautical miles on the outside, so it's less than 5 kilometers, so it's very easy to create the impression of an incident. And it is obvious that the Slovenian side's attempt to provoke the conduct of the Croatian police by crossing the line of demarcation. Croatian police and border services, as I said, will continue to act, however, we will act with abstention so as not to cause any more serious incidents and not to find ourselves in a situation where Croatia is convicted truly of non-democratic behaviour. That is, for behaviour that goes beyond the necessary treatment frameworks in such cases. There will be no more failures such as between September 2002 and May 1st, 2004. But I am saying, and what has been confirmed at that meeting of the European Union's interior and justice ministers, that Croatia is expected to really act on the highest criteria of European, European legislation, to refrain from incidents, but what could undoubtedly be learned is that no one prevents us from acting in accordance with Croatian legislation and to protect both our interests and to exercise control over Croatia's state borders in the way we have done it in recent months. I once again point out here again, I think it's important to say that perhaps this problem of breaking the border is being exaggerated after all. First of all, it creates such an impression because of this small breadth of the Piran Bay, i.e. the Savadria Vale, where practically any movement of fishermen, or police vessels, can be considered as provocations or can lead to certain incidents. And I'm saying, it creates an impression of maybe more important to these incidents than they really are. Also, Croatian police will act at disputed points of the border. Today we were again informed that there was an incident today, this time on the land side of the border. Apparently, Slovenian media are already designing a practical strategy to re-indict Croatia for breach, this time, land borders. So that's not the topic that's gonna be over, I don't know when. But as long as these disputed points are not established, Croatian police will protect Croatia's borders effectively both at sea and on land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19507	Thank you very much. The SDP advocates' club is looking for a break. Here's an explanation. Club Vice-President Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19508	Mr. President, we were, yes, before he started the State Secretary's exposure we asked for a 15-minute break on behalf of the club. Namely, because of your explanation of how it will work today in the Assembly and because some points of the agenda are being skipped again. We would pray, then, just to give us a break of 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19509	Thank you. Dear Representative Zlatko Tomcic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19510	Thank you very much, Mr. President. For the same reason, the HSS Club is looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19511	Okay. Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19512	Your Honor, Mr. President, it is evident that once again in action, it is rude to ignore a life subject such as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act. And that in a way...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19513	Are you looking for...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19514	... constantly the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19515	Are you looking for a break? We're not discussing this right now. Are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19516	You're looking for a flat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19517	Then say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19518	But I need to explain why.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19519	Yeah, but you started something else. Tonci Tadic, on behalf of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19520	Dear Mr. President, we're also looking for a 15-minute break, but not for these procedural reasons, but for this. Because the Italian Deputy Prime Minister said that Dalmatia, Rijeka and Istria have always been Italian countries I think we need to get a statement from the foreign minister for something like that. [[/Intruder: That's right.]] And that's why we're looking for a break. [[And the Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19522	I'm joining a proposal for a break club, and here we are, looking for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19523	And the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19524	On behalf of the HNS Club, I also request a 15-minute break from the PGS, just to consult on the agenda set or proposed today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19525	Okay. And I'm setting a 15-minute break. We'll continue at 10 and 15. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session after the break. On behalf of the SDP Club, the president of the Club, Honored Representative Ivica Racan, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19527	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. On behalf of the SDP Club, I express both protest and regret over relations in this Croatian Parliament. According to some important topics for the lives of Croatian citizens. Of course, I protest above all over the relationship to the debate in this House one important document, the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy, signed by the government, adopted on 13 July this year, which was discussed and accepted by the IMF on 4 August this year, and we have not yet arrived at the will of the leadership and Croatian Government of the Parliament and Croatian Government to discuss it in the Croatian Parliament. So, here for almost three months this topic cannot come to the agenda even though it was still there in 2002 that the Croatian Parliament obliged the Croatian government not to sign the stand by the arrangement, that it could not send the Memorandum of Economic Financial Policy without debate in the Croatian Parliament. The government's commitment to the Croatian Parliament is ignored in this way. When it comes to marginalisation of the Croatian Parliament, then the Croatian Parliament is most effectively marginalized by the will of the majority and leadership of the Croatian Parliament and not something else. Here is today this topic is pushed to the margin, we will discuss it probably in the evening because the topic is not, it is now clearly pleasant to the HDZ and the Croatian government. We are protesting such a relationship more than we think that this document shows the Croatian government once more that there is no development concept or that it does not know for the sake of development to solve current problems, and that is why it exists like any government. We think it is very important when we have already received this document with the conclusion of an agreement with the IMF that it is very important to see what the document says and what life awaits Croatian citizens for the next few years. No matter what this topic is pushed on the sidelines, we will argue in the debate that on the basis of this document and the commitments undertaken by the citizens of Croatia are not waiting for a better life for the next few years. It's the only thing I can say now in protesting on behalf of the SDP Club and we'll explain what I said and perform in a debate that will be at least tonight and evening. We don't think the Croatian Parliament does its constitutional function in this way. It is not a place where the most important topics for Croatia and the lives of Croatian citizens are discussed adequately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19528	Thank you. Croatian Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Zlatko Tomcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19529	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I think it has become immaterial in this House to talk about how to manipulate the points of the agenda, how to manipulate the order of the agenda, how to avoid seriously discussing serious issues in front of the Croatian public. So I will repeat just some fundamental positions of the HSS Club This arrangement that we will probably under cover of darkness without cameras and away from the eyes of the public debate is concluded despite the public promises of today's ruling HDZ party that they would never sign the arrangement. These are their pre-election promises. This arrangement has been made despite an explicit ban on this House. So the government had no right to sign this arrangement before it met the Croatian Parliament and before it was approved by the Croatian Parliament. Of course, this moment raises a much more serious question, how from this situation in which the Government does not respect the decision of the Croatian Parliament High House, which, according to its constitutional role, has a control function over the government as a matter of fact, is this a reason for impelation, for seeking the resignation of the government, or is that a reason for serious political, peaceful talks in order to allow each part of the government to behave extremely seriously in accordance with its constitutional powers. That is precisely why this avoidance of the memorandum debate with the International Monetary Fund is simply taking place on that famous folk tale "Flee from it as the devil from the incense". So what? Does the Croatian public not have the right to know what the Croatian government has done despite the ban on the Croatian Parliament? What kind of economic policies does this Memorandum foresee, are these economic policies that will enable this country and this people to develop and progress, or are these economic policies that will petrify the low development rates for a long time? Well, it's normal that we know what it says in the memo that public spending is too much. All governments will fight too much public spending for years, the previous government has fought, and this government must fight and this government must have a primary task to reduce public spending. The other thing that the International Monetary Fund insists on is excessive debt. We can talk about too much responsibility in different ways, Croatia has no development without duty but Croatia must have the strength to say who is in charge. The state is not over-indebted. The question arises whether this treatment of the Croatian Parliament avoids debate in the Croatian Parliament on this memorandum whether it is a small door to give certain legislative powers to the International Monetary Fund in the sphere of economic policy, it actually smells like that to me. In this memorandum, there are no real economic policies, no development policies, this is the monetary policy that the Croatian government has accepted, and therefore I am free to assert on behalf of the Club, based on such monetary economic policies and not on the development policies needed by Croatia, based on the development rates that are limited to 3.54% and on the basis of a fixed exchange rate, Croatia has no chance of resolving its fundamental economic problem of high unemployment rates and the rapid adjustment of its economy to the standards of the European Union. The realists would say this arrangement is harmful, the pessimists would say that Croatia with such an arrangement gushes into economic chaos and the optimists could say we still have time if we put the ball on the ground. I will try to be a pessimist and appeal to everyone, let's try to bring the ball down to the ground, let's consider exactly in this home where the place of economic policy will be run by Croatia, the one signed on the arrangement with the IMF is harmful to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19530	Thank you. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19531	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. So what to say, rather than being in part again, I will only talk about the Road Safety Act, meaning the IDS proposal, so once again there's a rough integration of a life issue, and that's how these committees don't do their job. However, I would also like to say that this 0.0-promila law is tangling 2 million Croatian citizens. In fact, 2 million Croatian citizens have a driver's license, which will say that theoretically 2 million Croatian citizens can come into a situation to drink and thus be clearly punished, not by gentlemen of any penalty, but by an extremely high of 0.1 promil to 0.5 kuna to 1500, from 0.5 to 1.5 per fines of two thousand to 15 thousand kuna and those who drink from more than 1.5 per fines of 3 thousand to 15 thousand kuna. These gentlemen are incomparably greater punishments than in one Germany. Clearly, in one Germany, the wages are higher, at least I suppose. However, one Germany also tolerates people to be able to drink, and then to continue and drive, i.e. to have alcohol in their blood up to 0.5 permeates, it is tolerated by one Italy, it is tolerated by Spain, Austria, France, and in some countries, as we all know, it is tolerated by 0.5. Now the question arises when this legal proposal is due, why is debate avoided? Do we have fewer deaths because of this new absurd situation? I guess we don't. And if we do, the basic reason is that we have 200 kilometers of new highways. What we did with that bill, we managed to only raise 50% of the fines by 8 million kuna in the same period last year, this year from 20. In the 8th to 20th, we picked up about 12 million kunas somewhere. On the other hand, no one in this country knows how much we lost revenue in the budget because of the loss of winemaker, the loss of excise duties, the caterer, VAT, etc. We claim at the IDS Club that the budget is at a loss as are all normal citizens of this country. Finally, the European Union also recommends 0.5 prominence for drivers, and 0.2% why not drink something for professionals and young drivers. That would mean something normal. Now the question now arises, why has this debate been challenged for so long, why the public is boycotted, why a legal initiative is being fueled and so on. It's just not normal, gentlemen. The IDS welcomes the information of the MIP representative. It would be good, we're holding that information open to debate. We'd do well to discuss these Finnie nostalgia estads as well. But what NOB achieved in 43 or 45 cannot be changed in a united Europe, and it is also aware of Finny. and to end this avoidance of the IMF debate. This is also seen on the trail of avoiding debate on the IDS's legal initiative to repay debt to pensioners, or avoiding debate on road safety. However, there are medicines that if we implement that agreement by the extended Presidency of the Parliament with the Croatian Radio-Television that the transfer of this debate takes place as the debate takes place and that way we could probably satisfy all the proposals on the one hand, i.e. citizens on the other. These legal proposals, gentlemen, are tangling almost all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and indeed it is not politically opportunised to ignore them. I'm afraid that's something you can't profit from, at least I hope.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19532	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19533	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Italian Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Genfranco Fin, told Free Dalmatia today, as follows, let everyone see nicely. Dalmatia, Rijeka and Istria have always been Italian countries say further signor Finny, I have learned from the son of an Italian from Rijeka that these parts have been and have always been Italian. But not because at some historic moment we sent our army and our Italians. This is an outrageous and unacceptable statement. I am free on behalf of the HSP Club to say that yesterday Picula, and today Zuzul said a hundred times the benign thing to make Italy's reactions incredibly strong. The HSP club therefore asks the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to withdraw our ambassadors to Italy for consultations in Zagreb. It's the minimum thing to do at this point. Secondly, we ask the president of the Croatian government to submit a report to the parliament on this statement. Third, we ask that Brussels be referred a protest note, because this is the resuscitation of Italy's aggressive policy towards Croatia. That's not what anyone said. That's what the Vice President of the Italian Government said, ladies and gentlemen. Fourthly, we remind everyone that letters of damage to Italian concentration camps have been coming to our club for months now to raise their question to Italy, and we will definitely do so from all the letters and requests of Italian concentration camp victims we will try to form one documentation centre. Mr. Finny has become the vice-president of the Italian government as president of the "non-fascist Alliance of National", but it is still too much of him. This is not an excess of ladies and gentlemen, this is a continuation and lift to a higher level of the Italian Ambassador Alexander Grafini's previous statements on Croatia and on the application of the economic belt and on Esul, but all these expensive ladies and gentlemen have been tolerated. Croatia has given up the use of the ecological fishing zone until further notice. And we also agreed to open a debate on Esul's assets and de facto open a debate on the breakthrough of the Issual Agreements. That's a fact. We must react this way, because how tomorrow we will react if, say, Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Vuk Draskovic said and claimed that Slavonia, Banovina, Dalmatia, Zadar, Split, Dubrovnik, Osijek, Vinkovci, Vukovar are actually Serbian countries. Of course, we have to react this way, because this is how we're going to react to any other similar provocation. Therefore, I repeat, the HSP Club is asking the Foreign Ministry to withdraw our ambassador to Italy for consultations in Zagreb and that the Minister and Prime Minister submit a full report to this Parliament and report to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19534	Thank you. The club of HNS representatives of PGS, the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19535	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! In this session of the Parliament for the third time, unfortunately, we must discuss the subject of respect for the established agenda. The President of the Assembly shall also be responsible for the existence of conditions for respecting the established agenda and when opinions of the working bodies of the Assembly are necessary for certain points of the agenda. And this time we are in a situation where the agenda is not respected because one or two working bodies have not in time established their views on the item on the agenda for a month. For today or yesterday, Mr. President, you announced an extension of the session of the Assembly's presidency with the club presidents in which we had to deal with these problems in an agreed manner that have been following us since the beginning of this session. The ruling coalition has the majority and you can vote on the agenda of whatever you want, but what we ask you to respect that agenda once and for all until the end of the session, nothing else. I have prayed three times so far and asked on behalf of the club that this famous consolidated agenda clubs get at least a day early, not because of protocol competitions, but because we know how to prepare for agenda points since we are never in the morning when we enter this hall we are not sure what that day will be debated about. Why the debate on an IMF arrangement or a Croatian arrangement with the IMF is trying to hide from the public. Is due to the uncertainty of state investments, whether due to the reduction of subsidies to businesses and agriculture, whether because of further restrictions in health care especially in the hospitals in which Croatia is committed, whether because of the accelerated privatisation, the restrictions it foresees rather than the growth of production, development and exports. I also wonder why Croatia is negotiating with the IMF in Washington and not Croatia. Some say it's the result of colonial relations, some think it's running away from domestic unpleasant problems and I wonder if it's one reason in foreign exchange logs. Since we do not want to open this topic in the Croatian Parliament for a month, it becomes obvious only one thing. It is obvious that the International Monetary Fund does not give consent to the execution of the guarantee card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19536	On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected Vice-President Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19537	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The Croatian Democratic Community supports the president of the parliament in his right, which stems from the rules of procedure, to propose changes in order in the agenda. The Croatian Democratic Community will participate in the debate on the agenda point, which is why colleagues have asked for a break, give their contribution to the extent that the Croatian public is interested in, because there are not only electronic media, there are also written media, which is why we keep saying that we should speak to the television as if the public is not guaranteed by the participation of media representatives in the Parliament. When it was discussed at the DC initiative in 2002 on an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, then the debate lasted until night to midnight and started according to a stenogram at 17:00 36 minutes. We're going to start two hours early, that's one big shift in that regard. So nothing is happening alarmingly, although it wants to dramaticize the situation around it. The Croatian public will hear. The Croatian public will also find out that since 2002 the agreement has been amended 4.7, so in summer and on a very large scale, so no one has asked for it or if the request has failed the session of the Croatian Parliament. It is true that there is a conclusion of the Parliament, and it is true that the last talks before the signing and acceptance by the International Monetary Fund were concluded on 27 and 28 July when Parliament was not in session and for a number of reasons that we should have reasonedly stated on behalf of the club and we will see the reasons, we will see the billions and 600 million kunas already known to have been broken into the Croatian Assembly. Why did this have to be an intervention in the seventh month? So, if we absorb some need to open the debate for formal reasons only, we will open it up with content, we will open it up with an argument and be sure that in this debate the Croatian Democratic Community will participate and argue on the facts regarding the conclusion of the stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19538	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, on September 7th, when I sent an invitation to representatives and representatives for this session of the Croatian Parliament, which was scheduled for September 15th, I put on the agenda of the SDP Representatives' Club, which came on September 1st and on the initiative of the HSP Representatives' Club, which came on September 2nd and discussed the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy and the arrangement with the IMF. So it's included in the agenda. That agenda was established on 15 September and this item was included in the agenda. I note that when 57 MPs of the Assembly supported the DC Club's initiative on 30 January 2002 to open a discussion on an arrangement with the IMF signed by the then government in 2001, the topic came to the agenda on 19 March after 30 January when it was submitted and was due under Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall, if one third of the MPs so requests, be immediately included in the agenda. It came to the agenda and was discussed on 19 March 2002 when the Croatian Parliament also reached those conclusions that were discussed here. We prepared this debate, and this debate, which was held on March 19th, began at 17.36, although the representatives of the opposition clubs insisted and asked for the debate to be held the next day in the morning as well today only with the opposite sign. The HRTA Council has decided when and in what terms it will transmit directly the transfers of the session of the Croatian Parliament. The complaint, which the Croatian Parliament presidency referred to in the public opinion, was seen as pressure. We are nothing more than suggesting, because it is in part and the powers of the HRT Council that it also implements policy in that part in which it will determine when and in what time the meetings of the Croatian Parliament will be directly transferred. As regards the change of the agenda, the change in the order of the established agenda, the notor fact of the article 205 gives power and the right to the President of the Croatian Parliament or to the chairman that the established order of the agenda changes if there is no report by the competent working body, if not the applicant or if there is no representative of the Government, whether or not the Government is the applicant. The agenda of the session shall be determined, the President of the Parliament and the Vice-Presidents of those who chair the meeting shall have these powers which shall come out of the Rules of Procedure. It's not about any avoidance of the debate, it's gonna be a debate. Today, the Committee on Finance and Budgets should have this topic on the agenda at half past two. Representatives and paralegals are perfectly familiar with all the elements. With regard to this proposal of the HSP club initiative regarding statements by the Italian Deputy Prime Minister, it is clear that the Croatian Parliament also considers any territorial claim to the Republic of Croatia unacceptable. But I suggest that the foreign political committee meet on this, and take its stand. Taking into account the integrated text of the interview that the Fine Vice-President of the Italian Government gave to Free Dalmatia. And report it to the Parliament. And I think our recommendation is to react to the appropriate foreign ministry and the foreign minister to these obviously unacceptable, irredential pretentions that stem from this nostalgic pledoia in an interview with the Free Dalmatia Vice-President of the Italian Government. So I ask the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee to call today's session of the Committee. And to discuss these unacceptable and untrue structures and the thesis of the Italian government's vice president. Thank you very much. HSP club, MP Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19540	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I'm reporting on behalf of three clubs, so I hope that power will explain its word reporting and one of these clubs is both SDP and HSS. And the HSS Club. We, Mr. President, are based on Article 204(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament collected the necessary 1/3 signatures of the MPs to put on the agenda a proposal for a item of the agenda Report of the Government on measures taken and activities related to the statement of the Italian Deputy Prime Minister, which expressed the claim made by the Republic of Italy to parts of Croatian State Territories. With Article 204(3) in mind, you must put it on the agenda as President of the Parliament, allow me to give it to you and inform us when it will be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19541	Mr. Representative, it is true that in accordance with Article 204(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure shall be obliged to propose, not to be required, but to propose an addition of the agenda when requested during the session in writing to 1/3 of the total number of MPs of the Assembly. Your proposal to supplement the agenda on behalf of this 3 club has 51 representatives and that is 1/3 of the total number of representatives. And I, while not giving it to me in this way, am obliged to propose the addition of the agenda to this point, which 51 MPs, or 1/3, have proposed. HDZ representative club, Luka Bebić, president...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19542	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 15-minute recess that we may discuss this proposal at the Representatives' Club and determine ourselves on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19543	Representative Cain on behalf of the IDS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19544	Well, I'd be back on the agenda, Mr. President. It is quite logical that these two points are combined, as would be logical for the Report on Pension Markets and on the work of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute to be discussed under one point. However, since it is two topics, we propose that for clubs such as the good old custom of this Parliament time be a little longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19545	That's one point.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19546	It's not one point, it's two.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19547	HSLS and DC Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19548	I, Mr. President, am also looking for a 15-minute break on behalf of the DC Club and HSLS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19549	At 11 and 15 we proceed. We're moving on with the session. I ask the president of the HDZ Club Mr. Luka Bebić to report on the position of the Club according to this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19551	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed this proposal, which was presented on behalf of 51 MPs, Mr. Rosic. And we will not vote in favour of this proposal, because yesterday when it was presented at a session of the Assembly, this problem was first decided by President-in-Office of the Parliament by a statement he made here in the assembly. The foreign minister and his deputy have been appointed. The president of the Croatian government has been appointed and the Committee on Foreign Policy of the Croatian Parliament has concluded after the debate on the issue of the Italian Deputy Prime Minister's statement that, with the support of the government and the statements that were to wait a few days for the development of the situation and then see as far as possible. That was also voted by some MPs who are now proposing to include this item in the agenda. Because of all that I have stated, I think there is no reason to include this point in the agenda, since all the relevant factors and leaders of the Croatian state have currently been determined about this excess to say so, about this statement by the Croatian Deputy Prime Minister and that so far there is no need to discuss the issue in the Croatian Parliament. If the circumstances change, then, of course, we'll reconsider any proposals in the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19552	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Miroslav Rožic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19553	Mr. President. 51 MPs did not ask for anyone to be determined by anything, as Mr Luka Bebić spoke of, but we asked that the government report on measures taken and activities in connection with which we have no idea. And the correction of the incorrect assumption is that it is indeed true that both the President of the Parliament and the Prime Minister have decided to do so, but they have made themselves quite impenetrable. Therefore, our request is on the line of what the President of the Parliament was determined yesterday by saying about the Italian irecent. And what the Prime Minister has determined is something else entirely. And that's why we're looking for an argument.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19554	Thank you. The club of HSLS representatives DC respected representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19555	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The position of the DC Club of HSLS is that this point is not placed on the parliament's agenda, for some reason already said by Mr. Bebic, that the Croatian government, the Foreign Ministry has already decided on it and we believe that the Croatian Parliament should not be taken over... Governments and other competent authorities, and we need to trust what the executive authority does. And secondly, because of that, it seems to me that putting a point on the agenda kind of warms up the negative atmosphere in society, today you have in the paper a report that the disastrous situation in the Croatian Army is. We were attacked by Italians yesterday. Please, nice. What's all this going to do? It's our position not to discuss it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19556	Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Miroslav Rosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19557	I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Piplovic, who claims that the Croatian Parliament is taking over the prerogatives of the government. I really don't know which Constitution he managed to get it out of. Because it is actually the fact that according to the Constitution, the government is responding to the Croatian Parliament, not vice versa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19558	Thank you. Please quorum. He can't. 96 MPs are in the hall. Mr. Luka Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19559	... I ask that this proposal be voted by hand. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19560	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I shall be obliged to propose the addition of the agenda when requested during the session in writing by one-third of the number of MPs. One-third of the number of MPs asked for a supplement to the agenda, and I am obliged to propose a completion of the agenda. I'm voting, who's in favour of this addition to the agenda? No more. I'm voting, who's in favor of supplementing this agenda? You can't do this anymore. Who's for this addition to the agenda? I'm putting it to the vote. I took the quorum out. I read the quorum a little while ago, and I was looking for it. You're looking for a single vote. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]] A very significant contribution. We're going to an individual vote. I'm asking the assistant secretary to call the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19561	Jen Adam.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19562	I'm against every radicalism. Against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19563	Without comment, please explain why anyone is both for and against. Mr. Rozic, here's your breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19564	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for intervening on your own, but I really think this deserves a warning that this request is called radicalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19565	Thank you very much. I reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19566	Žurđa Adlešić -, Irena Ahel - v, Zdenko Antešić -, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović - za, Željka Antunović - v, Franjo Arapović - v, Mato Arlović - za, Zdenka Babić-Petičević - v, Stjepan Bačić -, Ivan Bagarić - v, Marija Bajt -, Ivo Banac -, Luka Bebić -, Marijan Bekavac - za, Mirjana Brdavac - v, Mirjana Brnadić - v, Kajam Bukić - v, Perica Bukić -, Karmela Bitunjac -, Mato Krk -, Radimir Bošjaković -, Radimir Čujan Brdar, Žačačak - Žača, Željak - Žača, Žar, Željak - Željak Hr, Žačačak, Hr. Đurđa Adlešić -, Zdenko Antešić -, Željka Antunović - for, Stjepan Bačić -, Ivo Banac -, Snježana Biga-Friganovic -, Perica Bukić -, Radimir Čačić -, Ivan Čehok -, Lino Červar -, Zdenka Čuhnil -, Miljenko Doric -, Ivan Drmić -, Sredko Ferenčak -, Mato Gavran - za, William Herman, Silvano Hrelja, Nikola Ivaniš, Rade Ivas, Antun Kapraljevic, Ivan Kolar, Miroslav Korenika. Alenka Košisa Čičin Shain, Jisip Leko, Slaven Letica, Ivan Lončar – abstention, Jakša Marasović, Frano Matušić, Željko Nenadić, Tonino Picula, Drago Prgomet, Milorad Pupovac, Ivica Račan, Ivana Sučec Trakoštanec, Damir Spainčić, MatoŠtimac, Tonči Tadić, Šemso Tanković, Jozo Topić, Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19567	The result is next. One abstention, 53 for inclusion and 62 for inclusion. Therefore, the addition of the agenda in accordance with this vote result has not been carried out. The president of the HDZ Club, the esteemed representative of Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19569	Please grant a 10-minute recess for the club's consultations on this final agenda item. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19570	The one to come, elections and appointments. Thank you very much. Ten minutes. We're moving on with the session. I would like the president of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Luka Bebić to explain the reasons for the club session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19572	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I asked for a session of the Club, a brief consultation on the last item of the agenda on the proposal for elections and appointments, and after we got it of course, we also got a guide on how to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19573	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by asking questions to the government or to an individual member of the government. I am keeping a firm reading of the entire procedure of asking parliamentary questions, as all MPs and MPs know it as well as the Government. So I suggest we move right on to asking parliamentary questions. First, the Honorable Representative of Ratko Gajica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19574	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask the question, I meant the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, but I'm going to ask the assistant who's here on the topic of water supply and water supply in the area of the municipality of Kistanja and Skradinsko zazaj. I'm just giving some facts at the beginning. The plumbing's in operation, but there's no water. Its capacity is three to four times higher than consumption now. Two, three years ago, a reconstruction was made on three-quarters of the route and two pumps were refurbished and a lot of donation money was spent. In the Kistans you have 300 plumbers waiting for installation for one year. Sibenik's water pipeline will not co-operate on the issue, although the budget gives it 15 million kuna this year. My question is, since spring, will people have water there, because I don't see reasons and it's permanent, why wouldn't it be?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19575	Thank you very much. You're asking a question? State Secretary at the Ministry Branko Bacic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19576	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. It is also true that the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, i.e. the former Ministry, has invested significant works on the recovery and construction of the Miljacka system in the municipality of Kistanje and in the hinterland of the town of Skradin. The fact is, it also works. And that a certain number of households has water. But also the fact that a large number of households do not pay for water. The fact is, a significant number of households use water, and there's no hydrogen. and the fact that water is not charged in that system. However, as the water production and distribution of pumping stations operate, Croatia's electricity is obliged to charge electricity for the operation of these plants. As no one pays Croatia an electric charge for electricity, there was a debt of more than 5 million due to be paid clearly by the Miljacka system as it is called the water supply system. Until the issue of debt to Croatia is resolved, until the issue of relations across the entire system is resolved, and primarily by units of local self-government that are competent and in whose space the system simply cannot be solved. The ministry will continue, if water supply intervention work needs to be assisted, construction, upgrade of the entire system, but the whole problem of water supply, water distribution in the area needs to be resolved among local self-government units and the regional self-government unit. So, solve relations between owners in the system itself and the ministry will clearly within its capabilities and those in question... The system has been issued and before and the ministry intends to complete this system will make clear according to its programme. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as far as we are concerned in the ministry, if I can conclude, the ministry has made its share of its obligations in the construction and reconstruction of the entire system and now the question of when local self-government units will address the issue of ownership and water distribution in the system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19577	Mr. Gajic's representative, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19578	Well, Mr. President, the water won't be and I can't be satisfied but I'm afraid of one context and I'll tell it. There's no water here. In Perusic, at Benkovec, a man has no electricity and a bander in his backyard. In Primišalj, Kordun, another 50 seats are out of power and the average house in Kistanjje is set aside at 106,000 euros. I suggest that even the Prime Minister not be pleased with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19579	Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19580	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, I would like to ask the Minister for Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction Mrs. Marina Matulović-Dropulic. On the occasion of the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on the Spatial Regulation, you said that the moratorium on construction in the Adriatic counties would continue until the adoption of the Regulation on the regulation on the regulation and protection of the coastal area of the sea. From the papers, I understand that the moratorium will last longer, so I'm interested and I'm interested in the general public whether it's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19581	Minister Matulović-Dropulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19582	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam representative, it's exactly what I said the moratorium would take some of these until the regulation was passed. However, I must say that the moratorium did not, that the moratorium de facto was not and that all those who applied for local permits until we passed a law that entered into force on 28 July this year were normally processed. However, it was not built because of decisions taken by municipalities and cities because of the tourist season, these seven Adriatic and Adriatic counties were involved. We have, by law, passed the Regulation on the regulation and protection of the protected coastal area and now the situation is like this. All those who have the rightful location permits can ask for construction permits, and when they get construction permits they can build. All those who have building permits can build without a problem after this provision in certain municipalities and cities is no longer in force because it is somewhere until 15.9., until 1.10. as municipalities and cities established themselves. The Regulation, which is relatively restrictive, clearly states that all those who have parcels on an undeveloped part of the construction area of up to 5 thousand squares of size can request location permits and construction permits and can build clearly if they can obtain local and construction permits without having to work out an earlier detailed plan. All other basis of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning must make urban planning arrangements for which we have given them a period of ten months in this Assembly. So the moratorium is gone, but the fact is that some people won't be able to work because the plans aren't over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19583	Representative Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19584	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. Now, I believe that the public has now received real information about all these major problems that have arisen in the counties and solutions from the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19585	Thank you. Dear representative Željka Antunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr. Sanader. Dear President, I hold in my hand a document entitled "The Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy" signed on 13 July as a result of the government's latest negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. The document speaks of what the government you're president is preparing for its citizens this year and next. The fiscal policy chapter under item 11 states that you plan to withdraw profits from some public enterprises, companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. It's good to try to reduce the budget deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19587	Excuse me, just one moment, colleague. You have asked a question in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which SDP President Mr Ivica Racan delivered to the President of the Croatian Parliament next on the basis of Article 180c. I would like to inform you that we have changed the area for question under number 7 which is appointed by representative Zeljka Antunović on behalf of the SDP Club of Representatives. The issue concerns the area of social policy, not health care, as announced and addressed to Dr. Andrija Hebrang. So, the president of your club, in line with the Rules of Procedure today, has changed the question that you will ask on behalf of the SDP Club and this question may be asked as Mr Racan, the president of your club, has appointed Minister Andrija Hebrang. So you can't ask the Prime Minister a question. Not now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. President, you can't answer now because you can only ask Andrija Hebrang a question and you're third in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19588	It's more appropriate for me to respond to him by the Prime Minister, but if you insist on that, Mr. President, I think a member of the government is president or vice president to me anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19589	Dear colleagues, I am acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure as well as with the decision of your President of the Club of Mr. Racan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19590	I'm sorry, there's obviously been some kind of misunderstanding. The first planned question before the change was intended for Mr. Hebrang and this second one was meant for Mr. Sanader. It's obviously come up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19591	Now you can ask if you want to ask a question. We'll start from the beginning, the question of the Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr. Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19592	I ask the question to the Deputy Prime Minister, not the Minister of Health and Social Care, but one day I would like to hear the response of the Prime Minister and that would be much more credible and useful but good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19593	You've referred the question to Minister Hebrang in your club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19594	No problem. She'll answer as far as I'm concerned, but she can answer from her colleague Kosor. I don't care, just to get an answer to the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19595	Please ask the Deputy Prime Minister of Health and Social Care, Mr Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19596	Please turn on my time now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19597	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19598	Thank you very much. I'm not going to repeat, but I'm just going to start with the fact that it's good to try to cut the budget deficit, but I don't think you have to do it exactly by saving your investment in development, or not at least on such a drastic savings, investing in development. For example of Croatian Telecom, it is 4 billion kuna, two of which belong to the Croatian state as the owner of 49% shares and the other two Deute telecoms. The decision to withdraw profits initiated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as a fiscal policy measure agreed with the International Monetary Fund will have several bad consequences. It will significantly reduce investment in the development of the Croatian Telecom. As a result, there will be an announced reduction in the number of jobs, 700 to remind you, and soon, it is quietly announced and much more. And the final profit of 2 billion kuna belonging to Deute Telekom as the owner instead of being invested in preserving and creating new jobs will be transferred from Croatia to Germany. I keep this policy poor and shortsighted and so I ask you how do you plan to secure 700 jobs for 7 hundred qualified HT workers who will be left without them, among other things, because of your government's decision? And why did you not discuss this important issue for Croatia before signing the Agreement with the IMF and thus open the space to ask you why you violated the constitutional obligations towards the Parliament, and once again confirmed the endless ignoring of this High Legislative Body?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19599	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Health and Social Welfare, Mr Andrija Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19600	Thank you very much for this extensive question that is not in the field of social care but is somewhere on the border between the economy and social care. Our stand by arrangement with the IMF was the result of what we inherited when we took over the budget from the last government. What we inherited, Mr. Demekas said at a press conference when they established a deficit of 7 billion kuna in the budget and when we took the obligation to include it in our financial activities and thus restore the dignity of the thrown dignity of Croatia to the state because we are responsible for the government and we want to prove that we will correct the mistakes of our predecessors. When we included those 7 billion in this budget, of course we had to slow down our investments somewhere. The institutions have slowed down to sustainable development levels. That development that was last year and last term of your government's drawing was an indefinite development, and you can tell by what we have to do now, to make up for that big deficit. As for Croatia's electricity industry, as you know last year, the government approved a business plan for the supervisory board and last year's business plan drew up 700 workers. So, I'm talking about Telekom. About Croatian Telecom, I'm correcting. So the business plan was approved and they're implementing it, we really can't retrograde last year's impact on the adoption of a business plan. Otherwise, the strategy of this government is as many times as we have said, the transparency of our negotiations with the IMF, the document was available to everyone on the website, there were no secrets. And what I'm using to correct any article of this document is not made under the pressure of the IMF. I've put that out in public a few times and it's repeating itself again. These are articles of this contract that we ourselves wrote and accepted by the IMF.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19601	Representative Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19602	With the Deputy Prime Minister's response, I'm not happy because he hasn't answered any of my questions, I'm sure the Prime Minister would have responded better, although this is very awkward. First, you didn't answer me how you were going to create 700 new jobs, I didn't ask you about this at all. Secondly, you created the impression of the country's pampered dignity by inventing amounts of debts that do not exist and using it as political accusations. Decisions, a decision on dividends and a business plan are made in the assembly and it is not any decision of the previous government, and from the previous government you inherited 4 billion dividends that you now want to "spread" in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19603	Dear Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19604	Mr. President, my question was for Minister Calmet, so that's when I pass it on to Secretary of State Mr. Bacic. I also hold in my hand a document entitled the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia signed 13. 7. and as a result of the agreement with the IMF. The document speaks of what the Government of the Republic of Croatia will offer to Croatian citizens in this and the next two years. It is an interesting area of fiscal policy, so I quote under point 11th indent 2 that says: "A saving of approximately 700 million kuna that will be achieved by returning spending on building highways at an understandable level.". And the most important thing under point 13 says: "to lower further investment in roads and highways under the new four-year HAC and HC programmes. Mr. Secretary of State, this document tells the Croatian citizens that investment in regular and enhanced road maintenance in Croatia on which the citizens of Croatia and our tourists are killed, as well as the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway in three years, the conclusion of the 25-year tape on the Zagreb-Rijeka section, as well as the construction of the Slavonski Brod-Zupanja highway, as well as Zagreb-Varaždin, for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is an unreasonable level of investment in the road. He also told Croatian citizens only a few days ago that he was late to Dubrovnik, in the next half of next year to build a bridge on Peljesac and build the Zagreb-Sisak highway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19605	Comrade Linic, I'm afraid I have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19606	I'm asking if that's an unreasonable level, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19607	Thank you very much. Comrade Linic, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19608	Here, I'll finish! Mr. Secretary, why are you hiding the truth from your citizens? Why didn't you discuss this memo in the Croatian Parliament?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19609	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19610	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, when it comes to the speed, that is, the dynamics of the construction of Croatian roads, the Croatian Government and our ministry have said that it continues with the basic priority infrastructure projects on the construction of Croatian highways and also on the construction of state roads. When it comes to the basic direction of construction of Croatian highways, then it is said that the minister, Mr Bozidar Kalmeta, in Split, made it clear on Friday 10th of this month and this is what the Croatian public is aware that it is continuing to build the highway towards Dubrovnik in a way that will take place in the next short period with the opening of tenders for the construction of the road from Split to Ploča. It is also indicated that project documentation will be completed this year at the construction of the Komarna-Peljesac Bridge, and we expect that based on these project documentation works will begin half next year. So they will also be working at the moment, and will be very soon the Ministry and the Croatian Roads will publish a 4-year programme to maintain the construction of state roads in which the dynamics programme envisaged by the state roads will be as it is, before it is started. Therefore, in that part, I think that the most harmonised construction and reconstruction of both Croatian highways and state roads is almost done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19611	Agent Linic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19612	Mr Secretary of State, the government's document sent to the IMF says important money will be reduced for Croatian roads this year, and the four-year programme must significantly cut funds. According to the question remains what is true and that is what we need to talk about in the Croatian Parliament in order for the citizens to know. Because if that's true what the government document says, there's nothing on the road.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19613	Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19614	Dear Mr. President, Croatian Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, colleagues and colleagues! My question will be addressed to the Minister of Justice. Madam Minister, how could a lawsuit for the construction of a pensioner's home in Dubrovnik against Cacic's Coning company become obsolete? Does this mean that this company won't pay back the money it took even though the pensioner's home didn't build and that it won't answer for it? How can such a company in this country still exist? What kind of message are we sending to the local and foreign public, and can we, with such a judiciary in Europe? I believe in Europe, at least the one we're after can't happen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19615	Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19616	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, since you have announced to me at least a closer topic, I have made an effort to obtain a concrete answer. Therefore, the application against Mr Radiir Cacic was filed by the Retirement Unions of the Croatian branch of Dubrovnik for the criminal offence referred to in Article 292, paragraphs 1 and 2. Penalty law. So abuse of power in economic business. And now I'm going to give you a chronology. So on November 22, 1990, the social company Coning, represented by Director Radimir Cacic, concluded an engineering contract with the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, and according to the contract DP “Coning” takes over the management of the complete engineering of the construction of the House of Pensioners in Dubrovnik. The pre-calculated value of building a building established in the amount of 140 million dinars since then. And in this value was also contained the value of the engineering, engineering services DP “Coninga” amounting to 5%. According to the contract annex, the choice of the most favourable contractor was made and the GP “Technika” was chosen, with the final value of the contracted works contracted in the amount of 192.3 million then dinars. What is important to say during the period from 13 December 1990 to 24 May 1991 MIORH paid through 7 advances to DP “Coning” amounting to 192.3 million dinars, with total and charged works by DP “Coning” amounting to only 58 million dinars, and the value of the untapped assets of the advance was therefore 134.3 million dinars. The works were suspended in 1991 due to military operations in the Dubrovnik area. And now, according to the documentation, DP legal follower “Coning” is “Coning Holding” Varazdin, who changed his name to “Inproject” d.d. on 1 March 1995. Varazdin. From the documentation of the company “Inproject” it follows that “Coning Holding” placed short-term loans to companies “Zagorje LTD” and “Zagorje” d.d. Varazdin, amounting to 101 million dinars and thus the fact that MIORH's advance is placed in the form of loans to those companies. So it can be said that from the advances received by the DP “Coning” 58 million were spent on works, and from the further advance amount of 134.3 million dinars part remained with the performer of the GP “Technika” Zagreb while the rest “Coning Holding” d.d. Placed in the form of loans to those companies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Penal Code therefore provides for a criminal offence, a prison sentence of up to 8 years, so that the actions that may in this case contain the essential features of this crime were taken in 1991, 1990 and 1991. The criminal application was only received on 21 January 2002 and at that time the competent municipal state attorney's office in Dubrovnik received a criminal application. So, at that time, there was an age-long prosecution so that nothing could be done and therefore the State's Attorney's Office had to reject the criminal application against Radiir Cacic. However, to this last question of yours, we are at the Ministry of Justice, and this is done by the Supreme Court of Croatia, has already warned and asked the courts, but also the state's attorneys, to put particular attention to those criminal proceedings which are before old age or may fall into obsolescence. I'm gathering these days all the data that are items that are in relatively outdated and can further update this information with a written response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19617	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19618	I thank the minister's efforts, however, remain a bitter taste, so the work of certain judges and courts. I know about the government's trinity, but I think our public will still be denied, it will be sad that such, such companies can exist in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19619	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19620	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Minister, here I am, what I promised you when you refused me amendments on the budget to provide the means for the defense to function against the fight. Like I promised you when [[Intruder: Peace!]] I asked you a question, and I wasn't happy with the answer. [[Intruder: Peace!]] Here's me and then what I promised you when you refused, when you refused to rebalance the budget, my amendments to the budget rebalance. Then you defended the government's position to defend against the fight ineffective. After the first damage occurred, the government changed its mind and 3.7 made a decision on the implementation of the operational defence against the fight. I asked you then, quote: “Are you ready to bear the burden of liability for damages before us Slavons and before all of Croatia?” You replied, quote: “I am ready, if I wasn’t willing to bear this burden, I wouldn’t even be able to engage in this job.” Well done! This summer since the fight, there's been a lot of damage. My county has declared an elementary disaster nine times, and the damage has been estimated at about 60 million kuna. I ask you: how will you prove your responsibility because there are only two ways to satisfy citizens and legal persons who have suffered damages. The first way is the compensation of material damage for which you did not allow the insurance of funds in the State budget. The second pleasure is moral satisfaction, which is resigning. I haven't seen your resignation or the resignation of the Prime Minister since the government 3.7 has confessed its mistake. I ask you in what way will you give satisfaction to those who have suffered millions of damages?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19621	Thank you. Minister Cobankovic, come in. Peace please, peace please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19622	Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Representative. I'll answer you very briefly. I don't think I'm responsible for what happened to the anti-urban defense. For the simple reason, that this is another way that he wants to transfer his own responsibility to someone else entirely. I think you're very well aware of the way it works when an operational defense program is being formed against a fight for a certain year. After the fight defence period is over, it means about 9, 10 months from now, the government needs to establish an operational defence programme against the fight for next year. And according to this year, an operational programme was set up to be implemented with ground-floor generators. Trained just by experience and dissatisfaction with what was happening on the ground we were forced to change that decision in 6 months, and we made a decision that made us go to a combined system of defense against fighting means using anti-urban missiles and ground-floor generators. And accordingly, in this period due to the implementation of the operational programme as it was and as it was drawn in 2003, there was a certain dissatisfaction. In accordance with this and the decision that was, after the end of this period of defense against the fighting, we will form an operational programme for the next year and, in accordance with this operational programme, we will implement the defence against the fight. Some of the problems were being carried out by the decision itself, and that's why we withdrew, and we withdrew some of the activities. And I am free to say that we are ready for the next period to get caught up in this problem and solve it as prescribed and in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19623	Representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19624	Mr. Minister, here I am not satisfied with the answer of course. You specifically said, quote the phonogram, I'm ready if I wasn't willing to bear that burden I wouldn't be doing this job. I didn't say at any point that the previous government was looking gently at the defense against the fight. But she didn't make a decision not to conduct an operational defense against a fight. She was exposed to the pressures of the then parliamentary majority. This government has made a decision not to conduct a defense against the fight. And 3.7 changed her mind that way. Mr. Gello's resignation or being called to resign is not a pleasure for the citizens. Why isn't it a pleasure? That is why, Mr Minister, when we adopted the budget of the Republic of Croatia, we pointed out the responsibility of a state which does not provide the means and does not.../The speaker has been excluded from the implementation of the law, does not ensure the implementation of the law adopted by this Parliament. Mr. Minister, you didn't answer my question because it was quite clear, which is why I'm asking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19625	Thank you. Dear representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19626	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question for Mrs. Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Madam Prime Minister, I hold in my hand a document called the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policy signed on 13 July as a result of your government's latest negotiations with the International Monetary Fund. The document speaks of what the government that you vice president is preparing for its citizens in this year and next year. In the chapter, fiscal policy under point 14. states that next year you intend to start the medium-term tax reform process and in this context you plan to quote "Decrease the number of goods that are subject to a zero VAT rate". Mrs. Kosor to the nation before the election, you promised to cut the VAT by two index points. You have deceived all those who have therefore promised you your vote. But you not only didn't keep that promise and you have no intention of doing it, you're preparing something that nobody could expect. Zero rate, removing a zero VAT rate for some of the products at which VATE is not paid at all today. These products are all kinds of bread, all kinds of milk, textbooks for schoolboys and students, medicines and medical implants. These products will be collected by 18% at the same time, it's a direct attack on the standards of the poorest people in this country. Madam Vice-President of the Government, why did you, with this memo that was attached to the latest IMF agreement, not go before the Croatian Parliament when the NATO obliges you and the Parliament's decision to which you have just insisted. Why are you hiding the truth about the government's inability to resist IMF pressures?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19627	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister of Defence, family of intergenerational solidarity Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19628	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I want first of all to show satisfaction that you know the program of this government, that you've studied it well. And that, of course, you have not listed in your question some of the main points relating to the social sensitivity of this Croatian government. Which, of course, is your government. I guess that's how you feel. For example, as you know, we have announced, and we have already achieved a return of maternity benefits to the 2000 level, a return to the possibility of using a three-year maternity leave. So that was all an announcement. What the previous government, as you well remember and related to some obligations with the international monetary fund, has abolished or denied much of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is not true that your finding that anyone avoids the debate, as you know, the debate will be held here. And I remind you that it would be good and necessary of course to study the AVIS document that we have also talked about so much in this context as you mention. But in the end, I would also mention a 6.3% deficit of the 7 billion kuna budget hole, all the things this government faces, which is why in the first year we couldn't achieve all its programs. I believe that by the end of the term of office it will be, or I am sure, that it will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19629	Representative Marija Lugarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19630	Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I asked you for bread and milk not for maternity benefits. And I am not satisfied with the answer because you have not answered my question at all and I am absolutely sure that your answer will not be satisfied either by Croatian citizens, those who buy bread and milk every day and those who do not give birth. When they realize that you chose the IMF between the agreement with them and the IMF agreement. On the other hand, you did not answer the question why you signed the agreement with the IMF in secret, and completely non-transparetically and you did not answer why you did not discuss it here in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19631	Dear Representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19632	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I would have one question for the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Peter Cobankovic. The public is probably familiar with the catastrophic state in which the agricultural industrial combination of Belje is located. Technology is outdated and wasteful, there is a visible surplus of employees, combined debt has long crossed the company's value level. And the worst is still increasing. Although in public they've been trying to create a distorted picture of sales lately, so to speak, of gold coke in Baranja. It is not known to the public that any prolongation of p rivalisation of the Belje taxpayer costs more than 1m euros a month. In fact, the debts of "Belja" are increasing monthly, and the Board of Management "Belja" has not paid taxes and contributions to Croatia for months and years, which is certainly inadmissible. I would ask the question within which deadline the tender for sale "Belja" is planned, because the only hope for survival is "Belja" privatisation and the urgent introduction of fresh capital into the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19633	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19634	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, I will respond very briefly. The intensity of this government and the ministry is to go to privatization of agricultural enterprises. In line with that, we know the good situation in White, and unfortunately it's the way you say it. The fact that liabilities to the state are now in order around 180 million people, that neither VAT nor income tax nor funds are paid and net wages are paid. For these reasons, our intensity is that faster privatisation and according to this, together with the Croatian Privatisation Fund, with trade unions and local and regional self-government we worked and prepared one, one decision and the text of the competition. The competition in question came only, only one offer came from the company "Zito" married couple Bubalo. Unfortunately, this offer was not in line with the conditions of the competition in the section relating to the application of the collective agreement. For these reasons, the Management Board of the Privatisation Fund rejected the offer. For precisely the reasons, we will go to a new decision on the opening of the tender for the privatisation of Belja as soon as possible. Our intensity is that the more we speed up this process for the simple reason of the need for hasty privatisation and needs, as you said and the fresh introduction of financial resources, and simply out of the desire that this company no longer creates the losses you mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19635	Representative Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19636	I'm happy with the answer. I would say or appeal that this solution be made urgently, to open a new tender, because only in the first six months of this year have made a loss of more than 50 million kuna, and we can all agree that it can no longer be allowed to pump so much money into any company in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19637	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19638	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Primorac. Mr. Minister, it has been repeated repeatedly that the educational structure of the Croatian public is unsatisfactory for everything we intend to do in our contacts in Europe. Yesterday, Mr. Hebrang said on television that 7% of the population was educated post-secondarily in Croatia, which is a fact. In Europe, the average is about 15% of the countries we intend to look up to. Ireland, Finland and the like have drawn close to a percentage of 20. It is evident that these percentages cannot be increased quickly. It's a long-term procedure, expensive procedure. It is equally evident that the university systems are quite inert and very expensive, and through them the percentage of doubles can definitely not be paid. It is obvious that there is a way out in professional studies, which finally happened in Western Europe, where professional studies occupy about 70% of post-secondary educated people. However, budgets are limited, employment in state services, to call them so, so all those places that are financed from the state budget are practically stopped and universities and higher schools, which is adequately communy colleges or Fachofschula, but as they are called, these institutions around the world cannot employ new people. I don't know if anyone expects the number of highly educated people in Croatia to double in the next 5 years with the same number of staff in institutions. It's a nature that's impossible. At the very least, that number of employees should double. My question is how and above all when you intend to take decisive steps to share science in higher education in the budget from the declarative spheres comes into reality, i.e. to increase that share to a level guaranteed by some European and world standards?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19639	Thank you, dear colleague, thank you very much. Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19640	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Professor, thank you very much for asking. It's a strategic question and of course you could see from our work so far to work on it. Seven days ago, I met with a Mr. Rector who represents Croatian high schools, along with all the deans and they got maybe, they say for the first time, one public support, but not just public support but also financial support. We visited Gospić, my Secretary of State, and recently you know that we are also working on the establishment of a university in Vukovar because of all these problems that were related to the University of Split and some other places. It is also true that so far at higher universities, universities, high schools there were no systematic employment and exclusively selected jobs were replaced. We're going to be in the budget, and we're doing it today for 2005, you've seen from the answer to predict employment for people, meaning new jobs in the university system, but also universities, and this issue of the 193 billion gross social product that was, I have now the exact data, which is not so bad if compared, of course, I am working on them intensively, and Mr. Prime Minister and Minister Schuker have given support. We know that the share for primary and secondary schools is about 3.5% with the decentralisation system, we know that for high around 1.38, which is 4.88%, which is still about 0.9% more than what's stated in public. But I also want to tell you that we have launched a series of stimulating projects, you know that this year, the Croatian state has first received 2,500 recruits in the system and we are very much in charge of what money they have mastered, came towards the doctorate, so that they can possibly be included in the system of assistants, the docents and so on. But we also have to be wise and face perhaps some of the problems that were before, and one part of it is related to reform jobs, where, with exceptions, some of these colleagues were actually forced to get into it, you know it best. And of course I support this, I told you, seven days ago, I was with a vice president from high schools and we gave them clear support and financial support and projects have been completed, specifically in Gospić, and we are going with them all over Croatia. Here and I think, I support your proposal that professional studies are the fastest and most effective way to educate young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19641	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19642	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I sincerely hope that what you said will turn into practice and will not remain at the level of declarationivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19643	Thank you. Dear representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19644	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government and members of the Government, I refer my question to Minister Branko Vukelic, Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship. Since August, when the Russian company Mechel decided to withdraw from "Sisak" we have witnessed worrying events in Sisak Željezara, and the threat of stopping the company's work. Can you, Mr. Minister, for the sake of my fellow citizens and for the sake of the general public, answer the role of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Government in the emerging situation and the intention of taking care of economic activity in Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19645	Minister of Economy and Labour Branko Vukelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19646	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Parliamentarian. First of all, it should be said that, with yesterday's day, indeed, "Mechel Irons" came out of the contract and the owners of the ironworks came out of a contract that had been concluded a little less than two years ago and entered into the ownership of the ironworks and thus offered the safety of these two years to the employees, about 1700 or at the present state of 1620 and something and from the first moment and announced the withdrawal of "Mechels" this ministry together with the social partners, so also with the unions, but also with local self-government, with the town of Sisak, the County of Sisak-Moslavina, we discussed and agreed what and how to do, first of all, to ensure that the termination of the contract would be with respect to all those obligations arising from that contract and yesterday's signature. Namely, that guarantee, a 3.6m-euro guarantee, will be activated as a source of money for people's salaries in these coming months as a new strategic partner is sought. It is also secured and workers will be paid in the 8th month, and we have also managed to agree with Mechel that spare parts, tools worth about a million and a half euros remain owned by a hardware store, i.e. remain owned by the Croatian state. What follows, and what we have also taken together with the town of Sisak and local self-government, is that we are immediately on our way to find a way to solve the problem of the visible excess employees in the ironworks that exist and we all agreed on. So this is not the opinion of the Croatian government or the ministry of opinion, it is a union, it is known unfortunately a difficult situation and one commission composed of representatives and the Ministry of Social Partnership and Local Self-Government Office is looking for models that through entrepreneurial programmes, incentives, find a model of employment for part of the employees, while at the same time the Croatian Privatisation Fund has prepared one material with which one of the six currently examined, surveyed potential investors will conduct an interview, talks and prepare a new competition for the selection of a strategic partner who would enter Željezar Sisak. So from the first day, everything is being taken to address the situation in the ironworks as soon as possible with the new strategic partner, but also so that in these next few months the wages for the people who will be waiting for this strategic partner, but to find employment models for the part of the employees who will not be able to find their future in the Sisak Željezara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19647	Representative Ivanka Roksandić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19648	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I really have to show satisfaction that the government and the ministry are immediately involved in solving this burning problem in our area, and I hope that with all these measures will find a solution that will at least satisfy workers in Željezara, workers of Željezara Sisak, and thus ensure some kind of social security and economy in our county and city. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19649	Thank you. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19650	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, first of all, let me express my regret that the Minister of Foreign Affairs has more important jobs, but at the same time I am happy that there is the Prime Minister who answers the questions in the House and clearly places it among the most important things and perhaps joins the answer to my question. Ladies and gentlemen, together we are all witnessing the sale of Croatian real estate to foreigners, mostly on the Adriatic coast and islands, but also in Zagreb and Slavonia and in other parts of Croatia. In order for foreigners to gain property rights over real estate, they must obtain the consent of the foreign minister. So whether a Slovenian, Hungarian, Czech, Russian, Serbian, American, German or Italian will become the owner of a home, country, island or village, the foreign minister decides. How many such consents has the foreign minister issued so far and according to what criteria does he give or is it solely a discretionary right of the minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19651	The Prime Minister, Dr. Ivo Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19652	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative, first I must tell Mr. Zuzul's foreign minister because he is doing his job. It is also his job to be here when it is currently in the morning and most ministers are there, unfortunately not there, Minister Kalmeta is not there because there are also obligations in the ministry but several weeks ago an agreed press conference together with OSCE representatives and EU embassies etc. which we couldn't postpone. And the foreign minister is about to welcome the Slovak prime minister. Ususi diplomatically say the foreign minister welcomes the prime minister and is accompanied by him and that is why Minister Zuzul is not here. I will also have to leave in an hour because I have talks with the Slovak prime minister, but now for a specific question. You said exactly that the foreign minister gives consent to foreign citizens for the purchase of real estate in Croatia, but with previous consent and the opinion of the Ministry of Justice that is one thing. And the second thing, according to the current regulations in Croatia, is why I mention it, because there is also a Stabilisation and Association Agreement that, when complete ratification passes, takes effect and something changes to the citizens of the European Union. I'll tell you what's going on. For the time being, foreign citizens can buy real estate in Croatia if the Ministry of Justice gives prior consent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gives final consent based on the assessment and information of our diplomats from the country from which the potential buyer comes, that Croatian citizens can buy real estate in the country. So according to the ruling law, the current law today can be given the consent of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only if Croatian citizens can buy in the country, meaning on the basis of reciprocity. I am very willing and of course we are interested in this, because this is an extremely important topic and thank you for having set it up because I think that it will be extremely important in the negotiations phase for Croatia, because we are all against the sale of Croatian islands, Croatian real estate. It should be said that even under the applicable regulations and also under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement excluded from these, agricultural land and land protected by the Nature Protection Act are from this regime. Therefore, at the stage of the negotiations, and here I want to say two sentences on the negotiations that we had then at that time criticism on both this chapter and some others, and we thought that the negotiations on the Association and Stabilisation Agreement went too quickly and that they were what we had all observed several times and completed at speed, and also initialled seven days before the local elections, which is therefore suggested that due to the daily political short-term interests, a very important agreement for Croatia was to be concluded very quickly. One of the parties reported to the coalition these days, so we're against the sale of land and real estate to foreigners. And where were they when the deal was negotiated? The agreement, then, to come upon him, from a valid state of affairs to an agreement. When it enters into force, then EU citizens under this regime have the right to purchase real estate, and in four years' time, the agreement, in four years' time, provides for the agreement. In 4 years, the Joint Council, the Joint Council of Croatia and the European Union will assess the situation and see if the rights of citizens of the European Union can be extended. That's what the agreement says. It is up to us now, since we are preparing a negotiating team, because we are preparing negotiating positions and we will seek to reach an inter-party agreement on the positions for negotiations. It is up to us, therefore, to find the modusa and put it absolutely as one of the important priorities of our government, and I think it is also the issue of the Parliament and the Croatian public. So we're going to have to create such positions to protect, so there's no sale of this one that you're talking about and that we all want to avoid. So these existing laws are now, we can be very happy in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19653	Prime Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19654	... get full information and send you what's been sold so far, and what's waiting for us in the future, that's still for negotiations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19655	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19656	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I did not purposely mention the need for the Ministry of Justice's opinion, not consent, but opinion, and this is mainly about legal matters, legal property matters and real ownership. But I have put the weight of my question on the agreement of the foreign ministry and that there are no criteria under which the foreign minister agrees. According to my information, only in the last three months, a thousand and 200 such consents have been issued. I asked for the number to be answered exactly how much this foreign minister's term of office these consents have been issued. And as for your response that the protected parts of nature are excluded, I am extremely pleased because this means that the invitation of Mayor Jakovčić to the Minister Champi to visit Istria will not mean the sale of Brijuni, for example. And in addition, there are among other things in the European Union countries that have protected this very strictly, therefore, even among members of the European Union, for example Belgium, which restricts the acquisition of ownership rights by having a place of residence in Belgium.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19657	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dear Representative Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19658	Respect for Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the government. I would like to ask State Secretary Mr Branko Bačić of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. The question is, what the resolution ministry intends to do with the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Zapresic-Klanjec-Kumrovec railway line. I remind you that this rail route is of vital interest to our border units of local self-government, and this is the King in Sutla, Klanjec, Kumrovec and Zagorje villages. For both passengers and for economic, freight transport. I'm asking the Secretary of State for an answer if he's familiar with the subject of this issue, and if he isn't, then I'm asking for a written response from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19659	Secretary of State Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19660	It's true that the rail that runs between the Sava Marof, Kumrovec, and all the way to the state border is closed. It has been closed from, according to my information, information from the Croatian Railways since the end of 2000. Since then, there has been no traffic on that part of the railway, and the reason for this fact is that the upper machine itself has been worn out on one side. And on the other hand, what the colossians in Kranjec and Kumrovec have also endured and do not provide safety in normal traffic. In the past 4 years, therefore, almost nothing has been done on that railway line and Croatian railways have done in accordance with the National Programme for the Reconstruction of the Local Retirement of the Locality Line one dynamic of all local railways of local importance, and among them the railway for which you have asked. According to their information, the upper machine of this railway is planned, so from Kumrovec to Klanjc to Kumrovec, until the end of 2008. Before that, however, it is planned to arrange the rehabilitation of the colossus in Klanjc and Kumrovec, so by then it will be clear that the situation will be as it is. In addition, Croatian railways should maintain, clearly, space both in Klanjc and in Kumrovec, the area of the railways and thus, as far as possible, within the financial opportunities of the Croatian railways, address the issue of railway reconstruction. In any case, therefore, in the programme of rebuilding the railways of local importance is this route too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19661	Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19662	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19663	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19664	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, representative of Pejo Trčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19665	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I must respond and warn you of Rule 214 where, at the time of asking Mr Miroslav Rožić's parliamentary question, Mr Damir Kajin insulted the MP with very ugly words and curses. If I hadn't quoted those ugly words now, I'd ask you to warn him about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19666	They weren't curses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19667	... all the representatives of the witnesses, which is and which bad words he has sent to the representative, Rožić. [[Specially enabled.]] It's like she's in a bar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19668	I haven't heard anything from this place, nor can I hear what's going on between the MPs. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19669	I'm asking Mr. Shucker a question. Here, Minister, we have finally welcomed a rather clear document on the economic and social policy of our Croatian government, published under the term "Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy", signed on 13 July as a result of the latest negotiations with the International Monetary Fund in which, of course, you are saying what the Government of which you are a member is prepared this coming year. The chapter "Fiscal Policy" under point 11, indent 1, reads: "There is no real increase in salary mass". The "public finance reform" chapter in point 24 reads: "A change in the formula for indexing pensions binds the increase in pensions with the change of average, real wages in the economy." If we combine these two sentences, then their message is quite clear, and it says: "Citizens of Croatia, do not hope to increase standards because it will not be, there will not be a real increase in the mass of wages, wages will not grow in the public sector, no one, therefore, no police officers, no soldiers, no teachers, no doctors, no sisters, no one who, therefore, pays out of the budget." Also, this means that pensioners do not hope to raise pensions because there will be no pensions, because pensions will be coordinated with real pay changes, and real salary growth will not be, so pensions are aligned with number 0. Minister Shuker, why did you not go before the Croatian Parliament with this Memorandum of Understanding, as the Parliament's decision obliges you, and if it is true that you are not under pressure, according to the Deputy Prime Minister, to sign this Memorandum, does this mean that you have chosen, knowingly as your policy, the fall of the standards of our Croatian citizens, employees and pensioners, to justify such a policy and why do you do so?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19670	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance Shuker here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19671	Mr. Representative, I am extremely grateful to you for this question for a simple reason to get the opportunity to tell the Croatian public the truth. First of all, you're all obviously skipping what's most important and this memorandum or measures of economic policy begins with the finding that the past government has left a deficit of 6.3%. That's the first truth that stands in there that you all skip. All that follows in the measures of fiscal, monetary and economic policy is the result. The second thing, indexing pensions and increasing pensions by 4% that were done a few days ago, is the best way to deny what you just said because if pensioners are indexed pensions by 4%, then what you just said isn't true. The second thing, all the time, increased indexed so compared to the first six months. The second thing, you constantly impose on the Croatian public that there will be no investment, what is foreseen in the fiscal projects for 2005 is the deficit of Croatian roads and Croatian highways 3.2 billion. The deficit of Croatian and Croatian highways in 2004 is 3.4 billion, and those 700 million are said to be excessively used, those 700 million that you spent past this Parliament's will in 2003 and that we had to pay this year. So, I repeat, for the sake of the Croatian public, this memorandum begins with the conclusion that the past government did not fulfil its obligations but that the deficit was 6.3% of all the measures stemming from this. The 1.8% increase in deficits compared to what was planned is 3.6 billion kuna, so all measures stem from that. The second thing, I'd be glad if you had studied the Memorandum so carefully that you signed then you'd see that in this Memorandum you only have two sizes, you have a default deficit and you have a default level to which the height of the external debt is moving and don't forget that in two years you've assigned practically $14 billion, you're also constantly skipping. In the 7th month we had to pay back 7 billion, you talked about the repayment of the debt of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute in 2000 in these days coming to the collection of bonds issued in excess of 200 million, so it was not recovered but only reprogrammed. But I say look at your memo you signed, because it was exactly drawn into the month which you must do, which you must privatize. You have committed to privatizing the "Croatia Bank", you signed a letter of intent to sell 25% of the Croatian Post office bank, in this stand by arrangement there is no, see what you wrote inside, privatisation of the "Croatian Elektroprivred", privatisation of INE, privatisation of Croatia's insurance, in this memo none of it, although the privatisation of INE was delayed by a year. In principle, it is said that the government should draw up a document on how to privatise Croatia's insurance. However, as Minister of Finance and as Prime Minister together with Prime Minister Dr. Sanader, we look forward to discussing this stand by arrangement to point out the difference between the policy of this government and your government. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19672	Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19673	I am not satisfied, of course, because what you're saying, Mr. Secretary, is not an answer but an excuse. I didn't invent what I was quoting you, but you signed it, and secondly, the increase in pensions should have been if, by law, you'd already been 6.1% and not 4%, so much was salary growth, not like you calculated 4%. That's one thing, and another, it's not true that you're not going to tell the exact story of the debt and it doesn't hold water because how you're going to justify that you've increased foreign debt by 4 billion by now if you, you have an eighth term, that means that you're going to increase this country's debt by 32 billion and you're going to tear down the standard of citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19674	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19675	I thank you, Mr. President. I have a question for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports of Mr. Dragan Primorac. Mr Minister, Croatian experts and scientists cannot boast of a large number of calls for participation in the most important European biotechnology projects, but there are also positive exceptions. Two years ago, scientists with the Rijeka University received a call from the so-called The European... initiatives to participate in this major European project and, of course, more importantly, we have received the support of the World Bank for this. In fact, you know that there are several teams of research teams working at the University of Rijeka that produce... antibodies that have mastered that technology and that's why they were interesting to the European scientific community. The offer was accepted in Rijeka by both hands, a new Centre was built, a new complete building was built, it was a Centre for the Production of Monoton Antibodies, it was built... they were partially equipped and one and the other building and the project was directed to the Ministry of Science and Technology last year, it received support and a positive assessment of the reviewers, received support from then Minister Fleg and came this year in 2004 and there was a stalemate in support of the project by the Ministry. So I'm curious as to why this administrative impediment occurred, which, of course, is the collaboration of your ministry with the people who run this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19676	Thank you. Minister Primorac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19677	Mr. President, Your Honor, Professor. Rijeka University is one of the places where I've been most times and in fact recently we've had meetings with Mr. Rector Rukavin and our support goes to a strong initiative to build a new campus and we work hard around Rijeka as among other universities. I have made short remarks here about a purely chronology of events because Professor Stipe Jonjic is the one you speak of, I know personally, and I personally supported him in these technological projects because I was overseeing these projects long before I was a minister and he got significant financial resources. The real truth is the following, Mr. Professor asked for a project for a protonomics centre in Rijeka on 22 August 2003 and it was about 3 million kuna and 600 thousand kuna and, of course, right after that, the technology council found themselves and made some comments about the title. Mr. Professor changed it because of the concept and then Minister Flego said the project could go further, of course he didn't say about the amount it would be and that's at that stage left. So he's given support as well as the technology council. Meanwhile, I am familiar with the project when Professor Jonjic warned me on July 8th when he was looking for what was actually going on with the project, I ordered the tech council to meet on July 19th and they sent him certain requirements, one of them was that the project contained not only a request for equipment but also a development project. The professor responded very quickly and is currently in the phase of making a feasibility study that should be according to my secretary of state very quickly, in other words Professor Jonjic respected just a few weeks ago what was asked of him and is now at the Ministry that through this feasibility study he determines whether the project was just a purchase of equipment or a project was developed, he will naturally get the funds and the question is only in which amount to be solved. As Minister, I have a body called the Regional Technology Council that will determine here I am familiar with this case and principled support from the Ministry exists both from the former Minister and from me, and in terms of the amount it will determine the Technological Council in the next two weeks and Professor Jonjic knows and he heard from me personally as the Rector of Rukavin, that I am behind this project but of course the waist must say the amount. Is the amount never defined, it's always talked about the amount of about 3 million kuna, 3 million and 600, we need to figure out exactly what it's going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19678	I'm thanking Mr. Minister, asking him to really try to take care of it on time. The next month already in Haidelberg is a meeting where Europe will decide whether to wait for us or not. You know it's a project that can employ a few dozen college-educated young people, a project that has a market, a project that can finally be earned by the state institution.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19679	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19680	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of the Defence Family and Intergenerational Solidarity. The issue concerns a case that has been very interested in the public in Dubrava-Neretva County. It is that Vela Luka municipality's account was blocked because of the non-payment of the alimony by the municipality's chief of the Vele Luka municipality, otherwise a member of the SDP. Many wonder, in fact, how it is possible to block the municipality's account because of the non-payment of the alimony of a private person, and chronology is the following: namely, the court has asked the municipality whose head is to reduce his salary, to allocate that amount for alimony. As he disobeyed the court's decision, the court decided, after multiple requests, to block the municipality's final account, or to sit at the expense of the municipality. And since the municipality didn't have enough funds at the time, that account was eventually blocked. I must admit that I was expecting, after all those bile debates here in the Croatian Assembly of colleagues from the SDP who were so movingly talking about so-called so-called "the Croatian Parliament". "Chachi case" that he will be consistent in his views and that what they have been saying will apply exactly in these cases and sanction the behaviour of his superior and will at least call him to account, if not to call him off that position. I think it would be disastrous for this way of acting as SDP chief to start using in other cities, because let's just say, I don't know, maybe one of the commissioners would think of not paying a loan for a car, so that's what his community does for him. Here I am, in order for this not to happen, I am asking Mrs. Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister to examine whether the behaviour of the head of the Vela Luka municipality can be sanctioned, which is why the non-payment of the alimony is blocked and the community's account is blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19681	Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19682	Your Honor, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, I agree with you that it is inadmissible first of all that someone does not pay child support, it is inadmissible and it is a shame, because here now, I believe that you have seen, in the media, one case of a lady who is otherwise a social case that has been ordered to pay child support, therefore, vice versa, however, she is indeed a social case at the border of misery and threaten her prison. So it would be good for the rule of law to level the criteria, of course. And the second is inadmissible, of course, not to respect or implement court decisions. I think in this case absolutely legal state has to say its own, it has to come to its own, it's really a shame, but I believe that in the end, such cases always sanction voters. So those who decide who worked morally according to moral principles and of course laws and who did not. And as for the particular case, here's what I'm going to look at, take care of, I think that's the place for the justice minister to say her own thing, and we're going to give a written answer together.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19683	Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19684	I thank you, and I ask you not to revive that Orwell sentence that all are equal, and some are equal, or that you are indeed taking all measures together with Mrs. Justice Minister and inform us about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19685	Dear Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19686	Thank you very much. I ask the question of the Minister of Culture to Mr. Bozi Bishop, and the question could also have a symbolic title metaphorically called "North and others", it is about the following. The media recently announced that some independent artists would lose the right to pay contributions to health and pension insurance from State budget funds if their annual incomes exceed a certain amount. There are very unusual cases among them, and that is why I said that this question could also be subtitled metaphorically, given that precisely from the ranks of escrow musicians, I will not deliberately call them artists, because art means something else, and it has other assumptions. So that from these lines of people who made a lot of money and still earn it, they still got the status of a free artist and received health and pension insurance from the state budget. I am asking the Minister of Culture to explain to us what this is and what regulation has led to the above-mentioned change which I believe will lead to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19687	Minister of Culture Bozo Biskupić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19688	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, it is true that this issue has been slightly updated now, especially in the press since the adoption of the rules, and I would like to say that budget funds are limited and that in this way that has been regulated so far, it is impossible to follow and comply with the provisions of the law in that way, that is, without the rules governing these issues and how it has regulated them so far, would not be able to monitor and pay from the state budget to those artists who, who have indeed dried up the need. Therefore, during the last month, I adopted and all in accordance with the law adopted a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation governing the way in which the rights of independent artists to pay contributions from the state budget are exercised. In fact, I have adopted this regulation, as I have said in accordance with the law and with the consent of the art associations, which, when it comes to that height between them, have reached a consensus. The amount is namely a multiplier of 1.9 high professional equipment in culture and basics, which accounts for salaries for officials financed from the state budget. It's somewhere around 95, 96 thousand kuna, it's a monthly gross of about 8 thousand kuna, or net of 5 thousand kuna. Until that amount we will continue to cover from the state budget, or pay for independent artists, and those who have, receive more, more than that amount, of course they will be able to pay their own contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19689	Representative Jagoda Maja Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19690	Thank you for your response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19691	Dear MP, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19692	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask the Minister of Interior, Mlinarich. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you were one of the most frequently mentioned ministers bound above all by the Road Safety Act this summer. The winemakers are talking about losses, and yesterday in our county I had a meeting as a representative, but also other representatives with a host who also presented their losses to us and particularly pointed out the losses of their colleagues in areas where tourism is one of the major branches. Unfortunately, we're not. I want to ask you a question, although it's only a full month, how many road accidents have been reduced, those that have been under the influence of alcohol. And also, as much as road mortality has been reduced, so we assume increased safety. I think it'll be valuable information. Because the losses mentioned by both the caterers and the winemakers are certainly losses that can be reflected in both local and state budgets. I know it's two immeasurable, but I hope you give the information that might shed a different light on this law. I don't suppose you'll be commenting on the charges for now, or I'm afraid I'm not charging the fines that are being written. However, this is certainly the information that the representatives will be very soon interested in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19693	Thank you. Minister of the Interior, Mr. Mlinaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19694	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, I thank you very much for this matter. In fact, the issue has been a topic almost all summer since the law was passed, and so has the law. In fact, we were all witnessing a catastrophic traffic situation on our roads. In 2002-2003, I'm sorry we don't have the opportunity to show this slide here, we see a huge increase in the number of traffic accidents in our country. So compared to last year, we have a vertical increase in the number of traffic accidents, as well as the number of deaths in these accidents and the number of injuries. And also enormous material damage. So that's how it started when we started talking about the law, so it's also the seventh month, and when we brought it, when it was not yet in force, it was beginning to see the results of the debate and the announcements that the Law would take effect on August 20th as it did. So already in July of this year we have a reduction in traffic accidents by 8% compared to July last year, which in an absolute number of 771 traffic accidents was smaller only in the 7th month. While in August this year, 23% of traffic accidents were reduced, which means in an absolute number of 2224 traffic accidents were less than in the 8th month of August last year. No matter what we mention the best tourist season, no matter how many tourists have not entered Croatia in the past 10 years as it has entered this year. As far as the death toll is concerned. You know we've had a catastrophic situation in the first six months. That at the end of the 6th month we had 43 more dead than in 6 months last year. 43-three. When we started talking about the Law and when we brought it in at the 7th month, regardless of what had not yet taken effect, we have a decrease compared to last year's minus, it means 43%. So in July last year, it died in an absolute number of 83-three people, this year 47. In August, it was 30% reduction. So in August of last year 81 people died, this year 57. So it's 36, 24 and already at 9 months there are 10 deaths less than in last year at 9 months, which means that in only three months 7, 8 and 9 months, 70 people died on our roads less than in the same period last year. When we were 6 months old last year, 43 more died this year only these three months, so all 2.5 months died 70 people less. Ladies and gentlemen, there are twice as many injured and badly and easily injured. And as for the famous one, which most of all, wasn't talked about, these are results that can't be done. And those material damages that I'm going to say, so these material damages are incomparable to what we've lost in this, in some other activities, etc. However, as for that famous 0 prominence, and here I can tell you that from August 20th to September 30th 2004, 329 drivers were involved in traffic accidents under the influence of alcohol. In the same period last year, 776 alcoholic drivers were reported. So we're down 58%. Observed only August 2004 compared to 2003, the data are as follows.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19695	Mr. Secretary, we're running out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19696	Okay. If you're not interested, we can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19697	No, I'm prescribed, I'm interested, time is prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19698	I'm done. From all this data, it is evident that this Law is not what it wants to be shown by prohibition, can drink as much as it wants, but is not drunk to drive, it is proven to us by neighbouring Hungary, which has the law for 15 years in force with 0 proms and there has been no decline in either tourist or catering or any other form. Thus, the results prove both that alcohol and that of this Law are excellent results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19699	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19700	Your Honor. I refer my question to Minister Hebrang. Dear Minister, the subject of this question is Dr Milan Kujundzic, a man of your special trust. I do not know, though, whether he has acquired your trust only by visiting Pavelic's grave or by his total Ustasha orientation. But let's remind the public of the character and the work of Dr Milan Kujudzic. You chose him as assistant minister. Set up as president of the Governing Council of the KBC Zagreb. As such, he did an extremely dishonest job for us, for no other reason than the remandist, he immediately replaced the headmaster of the fashionable and respected Professor Paladin. The award for that liquidation was his place as director of Dubrava Hospital. Of course, you had to banish also the highly successful Professor Misha Virag from there first. And now this Dr. Kujundzic, a man whom you obviously particularly appreciate and reward with functions, is credited to his son, Hrvoje Marija Kujudnzic, a poor sack on fraud and has been enrolled in the medical school in Rijeka, although he has not passed the admission exam. Minister Hebrang, you have replaced a whole series of hardworking and honest people from pure rematchism. Will you replace this one for a reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19701	Minister Hebrang, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19702	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative. If I'd replaced four more years, I couldn't have replaced as much as your authority has changed in four years. But that's not my intention, because I'm only going to mention the two colleagues you mentioned, I would never name them. What Mr. Paladino did, he'll see himself these days, I hope he comes before this Parliament, because he's got this country in one debt, no end. To complete the Rebro project, the expert inspection found another 60m euros unworthy. When the current 73m euros are spent. So, no closed financial structure that's going to cost this country, who's going to pay it, I don't know, obviously our taxpayers. And let me tell you that this year, thanks to his construction and the construction of the Rebra, he's reaching 12 million kunas for the payment that the current new director has to get from somewhere, which I don't know. Because by the law of business, he can't pay for it. And to remind you that in three years, 70 million kuna comes to pay in one year's initial loan war. So much for Mr. Paladin. I can't say anything wrong with Mr. Virag, he's a wonderful boy, my friend and colleague, but 90%, according to his own statement of office, he spent in the operating room, not the principal's office. That's why the business results were catastrophic, and Professor Kujundzic has already put them in order for the two, three months so that the hospital pays its medications neatly, even paying debts over the past years. And now about Professor Kujundzic when I got to him. I met him long before he allegedly visited the grave you're talking about, so it wasn't the criteria of my friendship. The criterion of my friendship was my acquaintance with him in the Homeland War where he was a volunteer, where he was honorably defending his country, a top expert, a man who had given and now at his disposal his knowledge and an extraordinary head of the institution as I had previously documented. As for the enrolment of his son in Rijeka, I would not judge a man before the commission points out its results. The informal commission said that Dr. Kujundzic was not guilty because it was a verification, I say informally, and these days it will be official and that is why I repeat it because the commission misread the rulebook. Young Kujundzic laid the threshold, crossed the threshold, and according to the rule, who crosses the threshold if he is a defender or a son of a defender has the right to re-enter the second list. The question is whether it has the right defender or the son of the defender, but it is an interpretation of the commission, not Professor Kujundzic. He was not actively involved in this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19703	Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19704	The rule is that the right to enroll has children of a hundred percentage people with disabilities. Dr. Kujundzic is disabled, but he is not 100 percent, and that is a fraud. With that scam, he enrolled his son in college. The Dean of the Medical School wrote it down and normally he wrote it out, and it's best if he stayed in. I asked you, however, and that is why I am dissatisfied with your answer whether you intend to replace him because of this immoral procedure by Professor Kujundzic and show that you do not agree with it or do not intend to replace him and thus show that you agree with his impious actions and that would mean that an additional quota for the enrolment of children of influential HDZs is introduced in colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19705	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19706	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Croatian Defence Minister. Dear Ministers, which appears to be on the plan of medical rehabilitation of Croatian defenders, disabled Homeland War, and which are the new advantages of access or the possibility of access to psycho-physical rehabilitation. When I set this up, I also think of people with disabilities, the most disabled HVOs I hope under the interstate agreement will also get access to treating quality health services in the Republic of Croatia because we simply do not have enough capacity for those in Bosnia and Herzegovina or what little we do not have. I think this question is very important for the disabled both for their family members and society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19707	Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19708	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Representative, yes, this government and the Ministry of the Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity pay great attention to the medical rehabilitation or treatment of Croatian defenders, and we have this year launched a new project that has been provided for about a million and a half and a half, respectively, a million and a half kuna this year. It is about a project that has made us sign an agreement with six centres or six health resorts or rather a simpler and simpler spa in Croatia with which we will implement the programme. It is taking time and therefore it is good that you have asked this question in order to remind all Croatian defenders who have the right to answer this public call once again. It's not a contest. It's a public call that's been permanently opened. All those who think they can meet the criteria for achieving such treatment or rehabilitation can report to our ministry. It is also a special commission which will determine on the basis of the criteria set out which Croatian defenders or disabled persons are entitled to such treatment. Therefore, the invitation is open, and it can be called today. We already have a lot of such demands, and I hope that the commission will make a decision on the first group that will go into treatment in these six centres or resorts throughout Croatia and that we will certainly discuss your proposal and consider it once this agreement is finally completed between the two countries regarding the care of members of the HVO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19709	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19710	I thank you for your response, and I'm happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19711	Honored representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19712	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a question for Mr. Ivan Shucker's finance minister. Mr. Minister, it is known that the former government has done nothing to curb the gray economy, and even in 2000, when it used the Financial Police for repression, it ended right after that. There's been a real rampage of the gray economy, a rise in black labour, a lack of tax on goods and services. So we found ourselves in an extremely difficult situation. I wonder if the government is preparing the return of the Financial Police to introduce some order and what are the other measures to combat the gray economy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19713	Minister Shuker, go ahead!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19714	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Your Honor, Mr. Representative, I would not comment on what the former government has done or would comment on the motives of abolishing the Financial Police, the motives of abolishing the tax study and the motives of abolishing the stimulating work of wages for those who need to control the collection of the state budget. But what I would like to say is that in 2002, the Financial Police in Carin were transferred a part to follow-up fees by never having that team put to rest, had not been educated and had not been given the possibility of control on the ground, and I think that the former finance minister, too, and I now find that excise duties are not charged in the way they should be charged. Also, VAT, tax is a big black hole that we have been warned about by people who were our advisors when we introduced the Law on Value Added Tax. Therefore, the establishment of the financial police will not only prevent the growth of the grey economy. A series of laws passed by the Ministry of Transport, the sea, is developing to prevent a black charter, the State Inspectorate is also going towards reducing the grey economy. And what I would like to say to the financial police, the financial police are neither a political act nor an organization that will satisfy some kind of political desire. It will be one mobile team that will control on the ground exactly where the biggest evasion is possible in the absence of State budget revenue, and these are all above all in front of value added tax and excise duty because, unfortunately, this year in oil derivatives, tobacco processing does not show the effects of such a good tourist season. But interestingly, companies dealing with this activity year after year show fantastic business results, and then it would be good if these fantastic business results were reflected in the budget as well. So this will be the task of the financial police, not any political motive. Political motives were for abolishing the financial police. To whom it was in the interest that excise duties were not controlled properly but only to record excise duties, I don't know. Who was in the interest of abolishing a specialist study, which is a tax study where people were educated because without educating people it is impossible to talk about progress, about a more efficient, cheaper state administration. And we even have an example that an Austrian expert on the former government has been proposed for a high state distinction because of the promotion of tax study and following that proposal for its high distinction, we are making a decision to abolish the tax study. So not only the establishment of the financial police and the education of people who are in control and monitoring the collection of funds of the state budget. And if it's in any way possible to provide them with a stimulating part of the pay to be, that quality and good experts stay in the state administration and not that it happens to us after we train people to know everything about finances that because of the low wages they leave the state administration and go somewhere else to do what's normal to have a far higher salary. And I think that removing the stimulating part of the pay in the control, in the cutting board, in the customs administration is also one of the great reasons for the work that today is the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19715	Dear Representative Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19716	Here, thank you. I think we agree that the financial police were abolished because of political influences, so that she wouldn't accidentally run into the coalition partners' companies or God forbid the Victor Lance. But what our voters expect from us is to be increasingly less wealthy owners, poor firms, and finally protect workers from the will of the owners of such companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19717	Dear Representative Ante Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19718	Mr. Prime Minister, in Croatia, the party is rightly surprised by last night's news that Generals Markac and Cermak remain in Hague custody despite the fact that the Croatian government has given all the possible guarantees that were asked of it to defend the two generals with, waited with liberty, the start of the trial. And the fact that Croatian generals, but voluntarily, voluntarily decided to appear before the Hague tribunal. Such a move by The Hague court, which is obviously not in the practice of the latest indicators, the activities of The Hague and the Hague prosecution, shows that the Hague court has politicised in this case and in some way questioned the credibility of the Croatian government, which guaranteed with its reputation and authority that the accused generals will appear when the trial of the indictment begins. My question is what does the government intend to do to respond to this, at this point must even say an unusual one move? As far as we know, we have several times in the Croatian Parliament and postponed the debate on The Hague over its status. [[Invader: Col. Djapić, a colleague of Djapić, please give a moment alone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19719	Your Club President Mr. Representative Miroslav Rosic delivered to me that you will ask the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Branko Vukelic, in the field of energy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19720	There have been unexpected circumstances, and then I will rephrase the question, reshape the question of energy. Mr. Minister, the economy, will Croatia, the Croatian economy suffer because of the fact that one of the owners, the largest energy companies in Croatia, General Cermak, Along with General Markac, he remained in The Hague despite announcements that the struggles that they would be free will await the start of the trial. [[Intruder: You can't, you can't.]] Well, I've rephrase the question in the direction of energy, thank you! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19721	Minister Vukelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19722	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor. I believe that any company in whose ownership should not suffer because of the owner and that the company has its own system of decision-making and business and that it would not in this context bind the economy and the management of Cermak, the owner of Cermak, to what you essentially wanted to ask the question, so I believe, I am expressing hope that it will have no impact and consequences on the business of that company.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19723	Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19724	Well, no, according to your answer, it turns out that you think maybe he should stay and keep the company running. I'm asking you to let the president answer the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19725	I'm asking the Prime Minister, Dr. President. Ivo Sanader to give the information concerning the Hague court's decision to decide on detention, detention for Generals Markac and Cermak, please welcome the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19726	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Representative, and we were very uncomfortable when we were very surprised yesterday afternoon, please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19727	Please, MPs, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19728	Please tell me what's on your heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19729	Mr. Prime Minister, give me the information.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19730	Mr. Representative, therefore, and we were very uncomfortable when we heard the news yesterday, first of all because of the fact that the Croatian government did everything you said will continue to do everything in our power to achieve that Mr. Generals Cermak and Markac defend themselves from freedom. We gave assurance that at any time when the court called them, they would respond and come to testify, or give a statement. I also want to say that our unpleasant surprise was even bigger because of the fact that you didn't mention it, but which may not be known yet, but we have received information that the chief prosecutor, Mrs. Del Ponte, wrote a letter to the Court in which she said she did not object to the release of Mr. Cermak and Markac. So we have the fact that the chief prosecutor, she said she doesn't object, in other words, that she agrees with the request of the Croatian government and defence attorneys. And now we've made a request to the President of the Court for an additional explanation because we don't really have an explanation at this point. We want to hear why, which is why the Court made this decision. Especially because six Croats accused on the second indictment were released just a few days ago to defend themselves from freedom and wait for the process in Croatia, i.e. in Bosnia and Herzegovina where they already live. And that's why we've been so surprised by all of this together. Soon, Minister Skare-Ozbolt will be looking for a meeting with the President of the Court, with the chief prosecutor who in this case agreed to be released, or she said she had nothing to do with it. And we will soon report to the Croatian public and the Croatian Parliament as soon as we know what is Wednesday, which are reasons and must be extremely difficult reasons because we had practically information before summer that they would be released before summer, so in the 9th month it was delayed for September and now it is finally decided not to let go until further notice. We will not stop to demand that generals Markach and Cermak be released and defend themselves. We stand behind it as a Croatian government, we stand with full credibility that they will respond at any time when they are called. But so do those who have made such a statement and such a statement. And in agreement with the defenders, so we're going on the government line, but in agreement with the defenders, we're going to do everything possible within the legal framework.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19731	Thank you very much. I'm setting a 30-minute break. It's Agent Zeljko Pavlic's turn. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we are continuing the work of asking parliamentary questions. I'd like to ask the esteemed representative, Željko Pavlica, to ask a representative's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19733	... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19734	Here you go. Your minister's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19735	Here's a question for the Minister of the Interior as a legislator of the Road Safety Act. The new Road Safety Act, along with many positive results, has also caused some negative consequences. And in some parts of the economy. I'd like to ask the question again from the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19736	Here you go, buddy, ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19737	Wait a minute, I'm in the way, I'm sorry, I don't have the conditions right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19738	Hey, buddy, here you go. Ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19739	Here, I'll ask you a question from the beginning. So with many positive results, the new Road Safety Act has also caused some negative consequences in some parts of the economy. For example, according to a survey by the Međimurje branch of the caterers and craftsmen at 34 facilities, of the 39 surveyed, there has been a 40% decline in traffic. As a result of the decline in transport in catering facilities throughout Croatia, a decline in beer production was also recorded up to 30%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19740	Good colleagues and colleagues. Could the MP be allowed to ask a question?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19741	A particular cause for concern is our winemakers who have come to the issue of wine sales, and in whose production they have invested large funds. Let me give you the words of a međimurje winemaker who says: “The sale has fallen 60%. My entire family lives on vineyards and is educated by three students. I also used incentives and bought land on which I intended to raise new land. However, I will have to give up on this if the legal provision doesn't change." I ask, therefore, will the Government, if it will not change the Law, in any way damage the caterers, winemakers, winemakers, some of whom have been brought to the brink of survival on the market to compensate for the losses incurred by the application of the new Transport Safety Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19742	Minister Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19743	Thank you very much, Mr. President, thank you very much, Mr. Representative. On the first question of the Transport Safety Act, I gave the results that he made in a positive sense, so,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19744	A colleague of Nenadic in the assembly is not on the phone with mobile phones.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19745	So it was only in August 2004 compared to August 2003 that alcoholic drivers blamed 618 accidents and last year 1041 accidents. So this year, half as much. So 41% less. This year, five people were killed in those accidents who were blamed by alcoholic drivers, and 22 people died last August. 17 people less. It's a 77% reduction. 85 people were seriously injured this year and 131 people last year. It's a 35% reduction. Easier injured this year, 309, and last year 508, a 39% reduction. Of course those problems you instructed are pears and apples. These are human lives and health, and these are economic indicators. However, I note again the example of neighbouring Hungary, which has far more income than Croatia, regardless of its only Balaton and Balaton and Budapest. Far greater income in tourism and far greater income than hospitality. I think these first negative results that we understand are the only reason why our drivers haven't adapted to the new law yet, so they haven't even organized themselves that if 5 people don't drink it in the car, everyone else can drink it. So this isn't the Act against alcohol consumption. This is a law that doesn't allow drivers to drink before driving. So that's two things. It's pears and apples. As soon as our people adapt to know each other as at the October festival, that the October festival goes public means of transport, buses, trams, taxis, then the production of beer and wine production will come to its own and there will be no problem. Nothing's ever going to shrink. This will take some time to adjust, and in the meantime we will be keeping an eye on the results that are positive about human life, suffering and material damage, and also there, so we will follow these others and substrate the Croatian Assembly, so we are already doing some tests as to how alcohol affects the ability of the driver, and so we have from the American Institute for Medical Research that, starting already from 0.2 grams, there is a disturbance in the division of attention between two sources of visible communication. Already in 0.5 promila there is an eye movement disorder, it opens up blinding, visible delays, reaction times, information process, communication flow, psychomotor performance, thickened attention, internal brake judgment and caution, and from 0.8 promila there are severe motor function disorders and response times. Large American statistics speak of how alcohol affects. We just need to adapt not to drink but not to drive when we drink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19746	Thank you. Mr. Pavlic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19747	I have to say I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't actually get the answer to the question so. The question was whether the Government would in any way damage those who have experienced a fall in the turnover of their products by this Transport Safety Act? So for now, the government is not thinking about changing the law or the compensation of those people who have been brought to the brink of existence. As far as Hungary is concerned, it has 0,0% for now, but they're going to, soon to 0.5%. But what happened? It was precisely because of these 0.0% Hungarian winemakers, a large part of them failed and had to sell their vineyards to vineyards that came from outside most of Western Europe. So they have lost almost no ownership in vineyarding, which we do not want to happen in Croatia. I therefore appeal once again to the government to analyse these economic indicators which are highly alarming and to help primarily those who are most at risk. These are the craftsmen and the vineyards. Because if they don't get help from 2, 3, within 2, 3 months for some of them, it's gonna be too late.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19748	Thank you. Dear representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19749	Mr. President, I have one problem because my question is meant for Prime Minister Sanader who is not there. Another person who could answer my question is Deputy Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor, who also does not have one, and now I have fulfilled my right to the Rules of Procedure, told whom I am asking, but you on the other hand cannot introduce order to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to ask a question that reads like this. You speak very often in the Croatian government, you like to say that your government is socially sensitive and you especially say when it comes to children. Your government's concrete moves show that unfortunately you don't work for the benefit of children. All projects designed for children have been implemented for the first 6 months from 0 to 0.30%, which means that nothing is done. Today, I want to talk about 2,400 children who do not have adequate parental care and are in foster families. During the former government, these children had the right to compensation for textbooks. Which means the right to free textbooks. Now these funds are questionable because you have come up with a guideline that gives the funds for textbooks that give social centres care to be halved. These kids are government gentlemen, they're already being punished for not having a family of their own, and I don't think you should punish them further. My question is, when are you going to undo this decision when are you going to withdraw this instruction and allow these children but also your socially endangered children the right to education. And when will you return the full amount for the textbooks that were during the former government?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19750	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19751	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Madam Representative. As you can see, I'm here, doing my duty, so I'm here to answer. I'd like to since this is part of the question that concerns Vice President Hebrang's portfolio, so if you'll allow me to ask the Vice President to answer in this second part of the question. But as far as PR books are concerned, I'm glad to ask you this question, and to take care of the children of this government quickly. We believe that you have heard something about it, for the first time this year, a program that has been implemented by the end, free textbooks for primary and secondary school students from family with eight and more children throughout Croatia. That program has just been realized and completed. Therefore, for those children who do not enter the welfare system or who are not according to specific decisions of cities and municipalities are rewarded with free textbooks. So for the first time, this government went with a program like that. As you know, such a program exists for children of Croatian defenders. And as for what you're talking about, I believe the additional information has a vice president named Hebrang. As far as child care is concerned, I am prepared for you, Mrs. MPs, the relationship between the work of the family administration, to offer you all relevant information I invite you to the Family Administration. The departments of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. The complete excerpt that was prepared and based on your debate in the Croatian Parliament was also delivered to the media, who, of course, did not want to publish it on several pages. So not only is it done, it's done very well. We are right to open several family counselling centres, in the fight against all forms of addiction. Help families who have disabled children. We've made one project that I believe will be eliminated by the end of this year, for families also with more children. To get 400, in this year 400 computers for families that have eight and more children. And here I suggest that the rest of this report be submitted in writing. With another call, both you and everyone who cares for the work of the Department of Family Ministry, defenders and intergenerational solidarity. To come to the ministry and personally get acquainted with the work of this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19752	Dear representative Milanda Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19753	I am absolutely dissatisfied with the answer because Mrs. Kosor is in that you are responding to what I have not asked you at all. About how much you've been working for the past six months, it's about budget implementation. I said on all items zero per cent execution up to 0.30 per cent. So you haven't done anything in the last six months. And as for this project of yours for eight and more children, it's about 300 children. I didn't ask you about that, Mrs. Kosor. I asked you about 2400 children in foster families. I asked you about the socially endangered children, I asked you about all those kids in Slavonia and Baranja who can't attend school today because they don't have any money or buy textbooks or pay for a ticket to school. That's what I asked you about, but you don't have an answer for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19754	Honorable representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19755	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I was going to ask the Prime Minister the question, but there are also his vice presidents here. Here's the promise that by mid-9 months before the MPs, they'll find that famous proposal from the pension fund. Now the end of the 10 months is mentioned and most likely it will be delayed for some better times. At best, the effects may begin in 2007, 2008, meaning the end of the government's mandate. But there's one big problem, it's an agreement with the IMF. It stipulates that by the end of 2004, all shares will be sold in as many as 800 companies in which the Croatian Privatisation Fund has up to 25% stakes. That money won't get pensioners. SN holding will take over Liburni's hotels, that money won't get pensioners. In 2005, the next privatisation of Croatia's insurance, Postage Bank, Croatian Bank, 15% INE plus the third phase of HTA privatisation. Plus preparing for the privatisation of the shipyard, the Croatian forest, the Adriatic, and that money, so they won't get pensioners again. Even the deficit can no longer be solved by borrowing abroad, but by selling Croatian property. In one word, what does it mean to settle the debt to the pensioners and the shares if all the companies are sold and the money ends up in the budget? Finally, the Deputy Prime Minister herself said she has no stock for all the debt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19756	Deputy Prime Minister Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19757	Mr. President, your honor, Mr. Representative, you've brought all the controversial and untrue information to your attention. First of all, the pensioners' fund, which is emerging, has been delayed due to professional reasons, and at the end of next month will certainly be in the form of the Law passed before this House. The other shares provided for in this Fund shall not be sold in the form of tenders, neither in the form of a special law nor in the stock market of Zagreb or in the constituencies. What you mentioned about the service with up to 25% of the shares of the Croatian Privatisation Fund would not have helped our pensioners. It's about 800 companies of total value in the fund's portfolio somewhere around 250 million kuna. So this is about such tiny small values to individual, whose keeping in the privatisation and management fund costs more than the profit. It's a ballast we're going to get rid of the way I suggested to the IMF and the IMF accepted it. And it has nothing to do with the pension fund. For that pension fund, we've left stock that has value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19758	And Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19759	Well, I'd be happy to know what stock it is. But the pensioners on that basis, it's my deep belief, won't get anything but hope that's the last one dying anyway. The solutions are very different. If we add that in 2004, there will be no real increase in the mass of wages, someone has, Vidovic has mentioned 3% before, then there is really no good writing to the pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19760	Dear Representative Luka Rojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19761	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to refer my question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Marijan Mlinaric. And that's what it says. Mr. Ministers, after the entry into force of the Road Safety Act and of the Rules on Technical Conditions of Road Vehicles, drivers must have new emergency kits. That's good. In order to always be able to provide assistance by applying this equipment to the unhappy. Police officers control and probably punish drivers who don't have such kits in their vehicles. And without them, it cannot be passed on the technical examination because the boxes with appearance and content must be in line with Croatian standard HRN 1012. He hears they can only be obtained abroad. Because so far in Croatia no one is producing them. My question, Mr. Minister, is whether the Ministry of the Interior bought the same first aid kits for their vehicles when, by whom and at what cost, and if not why they were driving the Ministry of the Interior incorrectly, in terms of the provisions of the Road Safety Act and the said Legal Officer, they participate in traffic and control citizens even though police officers are aware that citizens can't get such kits for now, and you are also aware of that, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19762	Minister Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19763	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, all police vehicles are supplied with first aid kits. We are now issuing to our producers through somewhere within a week will get that same set that can be obtained in Croatia, so there will be no more problems with these kits, here. They were late for the request, our producers were late for a request to be added, to be granted that approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19764	Agent Roic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19765	Of course, I am dissatisfied with the answer, because I just wanted to know how much our Croatian citizens in terms of taxes and everything they pay for when it comes to state vehicles and vehicles of all the authorities of the administration, but also how much it costs all of our citizens, and it seems to me that this is a unnecessary cost. And in the end, I asked this only because once again in this assembly, we would tell the truth that unfortunately nothing is worth producing in Croatia because, here is an emergency box we cannot produce in the way it meets the standards. Unfortunately, everything still has to be imported, everything is imported and it's excellent, unfortunately a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19766	Dear Representative Vladimir Kurecic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19767	Dear Mr. President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Petar Cobankovic, about the problem of agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of the Varazdin County. Therefore, in the area of the Varazdin County there is relatively little agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia and there is a great interest in it by the family farms which, in my opinion, this land should ultimately belong to. On the way to this goal, however, there is quite a mess, uncleared ownership relations, irresponsibility and lack of awareness of some units of local self-government with regard to the development of a programme of availability and competition, and the mystification of the land use model by large legal persons, some of whom do not use this land with a good master. I ask the question: What is the status of agricultural land, so whether to rent, use, concession or anything else used by "Varaždinka d.d. in bankruptcy" and what will be done to stop the further devastation of permanent plantations, the vineyards of once known wine of the Varazdin peas? I also request a written reply for all agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia in the area of the Varazdin County. So, what are the plots and the basis of what are they, who and how and how are you given for use, which are not yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19768	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19769	Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Representative, let me briefly say that the problem of state agricultural land is one of the most difficult problems burdening this ministry. There is a law on the availability of state agricultural land and according to this, the Law of the Unit of Local Self-Government is required to make available programmes for state agricultural land and to direct these programmes to obtain consent from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. Also, after obtaining consent, units of local self-government are required to perform according to the programmes available for certain tenders. Therefore, contracts for the lease and sale are conducted by local self-government units, while the concession tender means the land, the land envisaged for the concession, brings the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. We are unfortunately faced with a very difficult situation, because the very fact that almost 50% of local self-government units haven't even sent in the programmes available to state agricultural land yet I think it speaks for itself. Or, even better, the fact that since the adoption of the Law on the availability of state-owned agricultural land to date, only 18,000 ha have been made available. I think that this information speaks enough for itself and for these reasons we are preparing certain amendments and additions to the existing law. As for the particular area of the Varazdin County, the fact is that it's a county with an extremely small percentage of state agricultural land, I think it's about cca 3,400 ha, to a total of 70,000 ha, means one twenty of the total land and that there are 28 municipalities and cities in the county, of which 4 municipalities, 4 units of local self-government have no state agricultural land at all, so there are 24 municipalities and cities, 16 programs have arrived, so 8 programs have not yet been delivered. Of those 16, 13 got consent. As for the direct question concerning "Varaždinka d.d. in bankruptcy," she currently uses 115 more ha of agricultural land. This is based on the previous law and lease that should last until 2007 and 2011, meaning after the previous conduct of competitions conducted by the county. If the situation is to land.../ The speaker turned off, then re-enabled/... as foreseen by the economic programme, we will carry out and send inspection controls and in the event of land not being used according to the economic programme of land management, we will go, we will apply the variant of the termination of the contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19770	Representative Vladimir Kurečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19771	Thank you for your response. And this record I requested, so I'm still looking, it'll serve you. I ask you that during the autumn and winter, to carry out all legally envisaged procedures, in order to reach the next vegetation season, those whose land is most needed, so family farms, so by the spring of next year, come into legal possession of that land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19772	Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19773	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask my question to the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the economy, Hebrang. A bankruptcy was opened in 3rd month 2001 at the Wood-processing company "Lužnjak" in Županje. The company was then employed by about 220 workers and their claims on the basis of unpaid salaries and severances were around 10 million kunas. The sale of the company's Wood Industrial Company "TVIN" from Virovitica makes part of the claim peaceful, about 3 million and 7 hundred. However, in the mandate of the last government, which was addressed by the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Parliament and various other institutions, workers failed to collect their claims, and I must say that these are claims recognised by the decision of the Trade Court in Osijek. Well, we're witnessing now that in privatisation, we could say that the key question is being asked, meaning employee social security, so I'm asking you a question: Will even when this government meets, it will pay off the claims of former employees of the "Ljužnik" when she hasn't already done so?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19774	Vice President, Minister Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19775	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, unfortunately I am familiar with the problem of the company "Luznjak" from Županja. It's one of a number of companies in a similar situation. Namely, the bankruptcy procedure was launched in 2000. The decision by the court to the other creditors entered 221 employees and they failed to charge themselves during the bankruptcy proceedings as you said. Unfortunately, by decision of the court, the bankruptcy procedure is also concluded without the possibility of charging in the bankruptcy proceedings. We are considering a whole series of these and similar cases to see what can be done here, given that the legal examination has been completed and they have no right to their claims. But we're collecting cases like this and we're considering, we're looking for solutions to help these people because it's hard social cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19776	Representative Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19777	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, these employees, and while they were working, they were receiving very modest receipts, and now they're really looking forward to achieving their outstanding claims, and I know that there are more of these cases, and I'm really asking you to find an adequate solution for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19778	Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19779	Mr. President, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to refer my representative's question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Marijan Mlinaric. Although a similar question was asked by counterpart Adlesic, I received a partial answer. The question is: What are the first indicators of the application of the Road Safety Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19780	Minister Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19781	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. I think I've answered that question completely so that everything else I'd say would be repeated, so I think it's unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19782	Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19783	Mr. President-in-Office, I also have one problem now, since my question has been properly announced in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and should have been asked to the Prime Minister. As he is gone, I will naturally ask all one question, and then I expect to be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As far as I'm concerned, let's say the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. But I will address Mr. Prime Minister, because it is a matter of the work of the people in his office and of the otherwise business of the Office of General Affairs and Affairs of the Government and of the Parliament. In recent days, we have witnessed that directly directed officials of Prime Minister Sanader, or the head of his office, have gone on shifts of civil servants, into the system of government offices, and precisely those personnel who, behind them, have all the changes of government in Croatia, and precisely because they have been highly professionally doing their jobs. One such office is the Office for General Affairs of the Government and the Parliament, which is crucial for the functioning of both the Ban Courts and this Parliament, as well as the Office of the President of the State. I will ignore the fact that, in an extremely inhumane, incorrect manner, it has been replaced overnight by the head of the office, but then the same package has been replaced and the deputy of that office without the grounds of oral or written and contrary to the law and legal regulations has been demoted completely as a civil servant. But it is a highlight that a certain Mrs. Marija Zovko, who, all those who had the opportunity to discuss the findings of the State Audit in this House in 2000, could have known what was done under her bat in the IHR. Let's remember those discussions about the number of ties, about 500% exceeded representation amounts, the use of unauthorized official cards, etc. etc. And they all know that just in the financial operations of the IHR, the most shortcomings and criminal acts have been found. I ask the Prime Minister's question, that is, how does he not have to expect the Deputy Prime Minister to answer, is the appointment of the person concerned, the shifts carried out in the Office for General Affairs of the Government and the Parliament, means that after several known affairs in recent months, we have again set up similar and obedient ones, those who have had a negative track record of the State Audit to advance their career?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19784	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister, Andrija Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19785	Your Honor, Mr. President. Madam MPs, your question is misdirected, because no personnel change is based on any similarity that you have spoken of or any past work, rather than whether the official or the deputy meets the needs of his job. Of course, that's what the assumer decides. And in the General Jobs Office, we weren't happy with a few employees and we replaced those employees with the fact that no one had lost their jobs, no one would end up on the street, we'd find everyone and we'd found a suitable job. As for your accusation that one of the new employees committed some financial crimes, that's quite untasteful to say and unpleasant to hear. None of these works have been proven. Every employee we appoint and employ is checked through the relevant services, and if there is any application based on facts, and I am not speaking a powerful verdict, then of course that person will not be appointed to his place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19786	Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19787	Mr. President, I'm not happy with the answer. First I asked the prime minister for an answer, and then I said I was asking for an answer from the Deputy Prime Minister, but Mr. Vice President tried to answer. I pointed out that the staff in one office is being decided by the head of another office, which is beyond the law and the law of this country. Second, it is clear that civil servants can be replaced, removed from their posts, but by law, read the Law on civil servants and tenants, Article 96, in accordance with Article 96(1). I'm saying it wasn't in this case done, and in the end, Mr. Vice President, I don't know what the State Audit means to you and finds State Audits. I'm looking for, of course, a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19788	My colleagues and colleagues, the Committee on Elections and Appointments, gave an opinion on the proposal from the Government on the reasons for the change of director or head of the Office for General Affairs of the Government and of the Parliament and of the President of the Republic, Mrs Volga Milic, who passed away today. I'm expressing my condolences to her family. She was a few months in a coma, that was the reason for the change. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19789	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'm sorry there's no prime minister who left us, because after two months of break I counted on him to be there, and I especially wanted to ask him one question, because he's a Splitian like me, with the budget rebalance from the 7th month this year the government abolished...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19790	A fellow Jurević pardons only. You have a written question to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health and Social Care, Dr. Andri Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19791	Since we predicted the Prime Minister would leave, here he can't last that long, yet I'm only 30. So, Mr. Hebrang, I ask you, why your government abolished two million, almost two million funds as planned for the permanent housing of children suffering from autism from Split and Dalmatia, although project documentation was developed for the facility in the city of Split, a building permit based on the funds provided by the former government. So of the two million projected funds you've rebalanced a million and 865 thousand and 800 kuna, you've left 100 thousand kuna. In Split there is no adequate space for permanent accommodation of autistic children. After these financial restrictions and the suspension of the projects launched by the last government, and on resolving this issue, how does it help these children? How to help the parents of these children, and is this some new policy towards, social policy towards Split and Dalmatia, or is this how it will be for all of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19792	Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19793	Thank you very much. Your final conclusion is immediately denied because this government has a special sensitivity for our most beautiful county, therefore, I deny this last sentence. As far as financial changes in the budget are concerned, they are merely the cornerstone of respect for the law. Namely, this government is operating under the laws of the Croatian state. No institution of social care, no health care institution, no educational institution, no others can work unless there is no authorisation to work. It's the first legal step. The second is that, on the basis of that approval, he asks for money from the budget and of course we approve of it. This isn't the only case that we've had institutions that are nothing, I have to say, like mushrooms after the rain without permission to work. If they were to give all these institutions a financing contract, then the minister signing this would do an illegal act, violate the Law on the State Budget and the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. That's not what these ministers do. Therefore, any institution that is newly built or wants to take office must first of all be subject to the Social Care Act, in other areas of the Health Act, etc., and will require and receive, if it meets the conditions, a solution to its work, on the basis of which it can seek funding. So it's just law enforcement, and as far as autistic children are concerned, none of them will remain unsettled, we'll find a way to settle it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19794	Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19795	I'm not happy with the answer. The money is not allowed, the children are there, they are autistic, and the sensitivity for Dalmatia, for the Split-Dalmatia County, the funds for adaptation and addition of the House for Deaf Children "Slava Raskaj" in Split have been abolished. Out of 800,000, all 800 thousand were abolished. Discharged funds for the House for mentally ill adults in Trogir, of the estimated 700 thousand, all 700 thousand. The abolished funds for the Center for Social Care, from 400 grand, all 400 grand. That's the sensitivity you're talking about, and you, Mr. President, is one request. I'm still Mr. Shuker, seven months ago he promised to give me a written answer to the question of the replacement of six commissioners in the Split Tax Administration. I've heard of these scribe pigeons, and it looks like there's a gargle of writers and they haven't arrived yet. I would beg that they bring it to you by the end of this term. That's right, that's what you said in this hall, I didn't take it. Please, here in front of the Croatian public, give me that answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19796	counterpart Jurjevic, the question whether the government delivered or not after the current watch. You know that very well. Dear Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19797	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring the question to the Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Since tax reform is under way, I'm curious as to what impact it will have on sport, i.e., the situation in sport. In fact, these reforms should finally address the many ambiguities and illogicalities that today burden sports in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19798	Minister Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19799	... All his life in sports and sports, faced with the use of sports even for political purposes, where he wanted to prove that sport in the 10 years of HDZ rule was also a crime. [[Specially enabled.]] Faced with the fact that young athletes are bound by an undefined way of taxing their incomes that they get when making a contract, they have to open up trades and make things up to some legal business. We have proposed working group working on amending the Income Tax Act, taxing the receiving of athletes, taxing the receiving of artists, singers, etc., specifically regulates the law in such a way that one part of their income is recognised as a flat-rate cost, whether it will be 30% or 40%, and that the rest is taxed with a central rate, therefore, with 25% plus tax. However, I must also say that by amending the Law on Contributions, we will solve the problem of people who, I say, are technical staff present at each game, judges and delegates, where, by amending the Law on Mandatory Contributions, are forced to impose such a burden that simply no sports club can practically cover it. And I think that, with the amendments to the Income Tax Act, we're going to solve that problem, I say, when for political reasons it went into the control of sports clubs' business. This is what no one worked on when they met their political needs. However, I must say that there are over 600,000 kunas left in the country's budget for sports clubs. There are a number of athletes who have not been paid a pension, or health care, who today cannot regulate their obligations. It was also said at the government that those who received payments for contributions could tear and throw them away. However, those obligations remained. So, bad legal solutions to not athletes but also peasants and pensioners simply have to get rid of it because we're going to get into a situation where people have to pay far more than they've paid. But most importantly, all those involved in sports and athletes themselves welcome this kind of solution because we will finally legalize the receipts in sport, we will finally put these young people in a position to pay taxes on their income and that no one can call them out for this or for that reason. But what's far more important, I think we're going to give everyone who wants to help in sports and wants to invest in sports, give them the opportunity to pay off this legal way when making a contract, will also encourage them to find an interest in investing in sports, and then there'll probably be a lot more joy with both handball players and with, hopefully, and basketball players, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19800	Dear Representative Perica Bukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19801	I thank you and dare say so, and you have certainly confirmed that these reforms are even more important than the Law of Sports itself, which we also expect soon on the parliamentary benches. And I also want to sport... achieves with all these changes even better results than before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19802	Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19803	Your Honor. Mr. Minister Mlinarich. According to my field knowledge, the money covering the annual fuel consumption and other police work materials cannot cover 10 months a year. That's why we have examples of cops walking to see the intervention, which is inadmissible. And when they ask for a film for a camera, they're told they have a pen and paper to draw. At the same time, you are trying to proceed with rigorous punishments and the elimination of 0.5 alcohol permeations to protect the citizens. I think by preventing and increasing the involvement of police patrols on the road, we can handle it with far less restrictive laws. My question is, when and how will you secure the resources for normal police work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19804	Minister Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19805	Your Honor. The police act in the Republic of Croatia was prescribed by the Law on Police, "The National Journal" No. 129/2000, and the Regulation on the way of police treatment, "The People's Journal", 81/2003, which was adopted under the Law. The manner of police treatment and the application of the law of regulated police powers as well as the scope of the measures and activities taken by the police is not directly related to financial policy measures, since police officers are not limited in their work by the height and manner of the financing mechanism. So this question is not properly asked but these results of the law, the new law we see that the police had enough people and enough resources and sufficient treatment to enforce the law, and the results of that law, you saw in the results I had just presented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19806	Your Honor, Mr. Kurtov, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19807	Mr. Minister, we are witnessing that there are problems in the police that there are no cars, that uniforms are bad, etc., therefore, I am still on the stand that the issue of the interest of the citizens of this country is to have the police trained and to be financially monitored, to do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19808	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. I'm asking some gentlemen who use cell phones to stop it right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19809	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the question of the absence of Minister Kalmeta to State Secretary Mr Branko Bačić, at the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. Part of the state road D1 known as the fast road Solin-Klis represents a merger of the wider region of Split with the Zagreb-Split highway. Crossing of national roads D1 and D8 i.e. The Adriatic highways called the Meteriza have not yet been completed despite numerous promises and efforts. The question is: When can we expect the beginning of the works and the completion of the complete intersection of the Meteriza for which the entire project documentation has been produced and where PGDP is assumed this year, i.e. Average annual daily traffic of about 40,000 vehicles per day, representing the combination of Split, Solina, Kaštel and the corresponding region on the Split-Zagreb highway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19810	Secretary of State Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19811	Thank you, Mr. President. I said on 10th of this month we held a meeting in Split-Dalmatia County together with representatives of the county administration for the road of Split and other units of local self-government and that we set out priorities and basic projects that will be implemented in the wider region of Split at the end of the year or early next year as part of the project of building and rebuilding state roads. It is true that the crossing of the Meteriza as you called priority in the construction of roads in the Split and Croatian roads are in their programme envisioned to move immediately into the realization of the hub itself. It is true that this cross-section is extremely important for the reason that traffic at that intersection is such, clearly requires that the investment into that capital investment be made as soon as possible. The fact is that it has been trying for several years to realize the construction of the hub, but so far it has not been practically started except that project documentation has been produced so far and a building permit has been issued. Croatian roads planned to announce a public tender for construction works at the hub itself in the next month and would then only complete the hub and reconstruction of the road by the beginning of the season 2005. So, according to the Croatian Roads programme, this project, as Minister Kalmeta said and promised in Split in the jurisdiction of the directors of the Croatian Roads and the director of the highways, is planned to be completed in full by the beginning of the season 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19812	Dear Representative Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19813	Expressing satisfaction with your answer, I thank you for doing so, i.e. This Croatian government also fulfils the obligation under the agreement signed by the Croatian Roads in 2001, thus ensuring the maximum safety of all road users at the crossing, which according to their current appearance, i.e. by the configuration of the roads that approach it is more like a jumper jumper than such a significant road crossing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19814	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19815	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would have a question for the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Cobankovic. So, the Ministry of Agriculture issued an order this summer for the destruction of the crops sown with GMO corn. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has made a decision on the compensation of the crop concerned. THE media found out that the corn in question was sown at 1790 hectares and that it was mostly intended for the storage of silencing. I wonder if the government's decision was paid to farmers and other producers for the crop fee so that, in time, they could compensate for the destroyed crop and prepare the silencing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19816	Minister Cobankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19817	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor. Let me say a few words to your question. I want to stress here that this is the principle way this government and this Ministry are dealing with the problems ahead of them. The fact is that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia this year, it was sampled and given to an analysis of the GMO seed of certain sorates and that in a single seed, we established the participation of a corn hybrid, the illicit participation of GMOs. Normally, it is an extremely sensitive issue, we reiterated the analysis then found it in the international laboratory in Switzerland and when we were absolutely convinced that this hybrid was sown at 1790.13 hectares and wanted our agricultural producers not to be damaged, that the application was made, because the fact that it was not except for its own application would be difficult to determine all the surfaces of the hybrid concerned, the government made a decision and took over the compensation for the damage and according to it and the government's decision to damage the producers with 7 thousand and 200 kuna last week, and I can say that last week, we have disbursed all the producers who had a total amount of 936 million in themselves. Furthermore, for the amount paid to producers, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy, they will treat the importer and the seed distributors legally with regard to the compensation of the damage. We have thus made it possible for our agricultural producers to receive compensation, that they can get money first of all because the fact is that the hybrid concerned is mainly a hybrid that is brilliant for, related to rape, so manufacturers have been compensated and can provide for corn which unfortunately due to the radiance of a particular hybrid who had the participation of GMOs had to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19818	Dear Representative Vladimir Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19819	Thank you for your response. I am pleased with the answer and I express my satisfaction and thank you on behalf of the agricultural producers for this swift and consistent implementation of the government's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19820	Dear Representative Dragutin Pukleš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19821	Thank you, Mr. President. The question would be referred to the Minister of the Interior, and the question concerns the application of Article 309(3). Road safety laws. In this regard, the Commission notes that, in the event of the replacement of driving licences issued for a period of 65 years, the driver will be granted a driving licence within 80 years unless there is a restriction on the opinion of the motor vehicle driver. It is normal that if there is an individual restriction regarding a particular part of the driver’s health condition, it should be continuously monitored and a particular competent physician should be declared accordingly. However, there is a guideline from the Ministry of the Interior where in such cases people are asked to go for a full review, so also in the part where they have no health restrictions. We believe that this is not in line with this point 3 of Article 309. We suggest that such an instruction be withdrawn and that another guideline in which a specialist for a particular restriction would issue a certificate and that this would be sufficient for, to apply this Article 309(3).
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19822	Minister Mlinaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19823	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Representative, the issue of issuing driving licences, i.e. the deadlines on which driving licences are issued in relation to the years of driver's life, are arranged with the exception of Articles 309 and other articles of the Road Safety Act, e.g. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By respecting that driver’s licence issued with a period of validity of up to 65 years of driver’s life, it will extend to a period of 10 years, i.e. to replace the driver’s licence with a period of 10 years, without applying a medical certificate. In case the driver’s licence has been issued with a limit, for example. wear of glasses, prosthetics, hearing ampliflicator, etc. is mandatoryly attached to medical conviction and the driving licence is extended in accordance with the time limit laid down in the medical conviction. The driving licence issued or extended to the driver after 65 years of life on a period of 3 years will be extended to a period of 10 years, i.e. to replace the driving licence with a period of 10 years without applying the medical certificate. In the case of a driving licence, however, it was issued within a period of 3 years with a limit, e.g. the wear of glasses, prosthetics, auditory or other and for a period shorter than 3 years may be extended or replaced only with the application of medical conviction and the driving licence shall be extended in accordance with the time limit laid down in the medical conviction. After 80 years of age, the driver’s license shall be issued on a deadline marked in medical conviction and maximum to 5 years. We can give you a written answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19824	Here you go, Mr. Pucklech.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19825	In all, all segments of their health are subject to certificates, i.e. to give a new health complete conviction that causes costs and waste of time, or the confirmation of a competent specialist who is responsible for this type of restriction that is written in the health permit. Does that mean that? Then I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19826	Thank you very much. They will ask the question of Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable members of the government, MPs and MPs. I'm sorry that there's no Ms. Justice here, because the only one personally relevant, I think, can answer this question. Namely, the Ministry of Justice announced a competition for the place of trainees in courts and state's attorneys. Dubravka Kezic also appeared in the competition for the place in the County State Attorney's Office and the Municipal State's Attorney's Office in Split. She was the first on both lists. The study finished with an average score of 4.93. All the grades that were being scored were excellent, she won the dean's award, she was a scholarship student of the Ivica Crnic Foundation for Extraordinary Students, she was a 4th-year student on the subject of state and law theory. He has completed an internationally recognised UN seminar on human rights and freedoms. You didn't receive her. You received Maria Bulim who has none of it, but is a member of the DC, in any case performing on behalf of the Democratic Centre Party in Split. Also at the Municipal Court in Dubrovnik you did not receive the best first on the list, but you received the last from the list, with the worst results. His results are criminal law 2, civil law 2, commercial law 2, criminal trial 2, civil process 2. No work, no rewards. And what's all that for? It's enough that he's a DC member. I am really wondering, here, and I wonder if the Minister of Justice is aware of what she has done with this, whether she is aware of what message she has sent to one of the best law school students in Croatia, as well as to all those young people who have the ideals of justice and justice and who believe and who have the right to believe that knowledge, pawnage and work can succeed in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19828	Thank you very much. Does the secretary of state want it? Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19829	Of course, thank you, Mr. President. I can try to give an answer, unless Mrs. MP insists that we send a written reply, given that the minister does not have one. ... I'll try. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. So I can't talk about specific cases, although, of course, all young people who show envious results in the work should be supported. As for the appointment of trainees under the Law on Trainees and the submission of justice exams from 77, that is, the old law, the trainees appointed the Minister of Justice on a proposal from the Competition Commission and, according to the previously obtained opinion of the head of the body in which someone is appointed, so either the President of that court or the State's attorney. Unfortunately, this is a fact that neither the law nor the regulation adopted on the implementation of the law governing the way the Commission works to pass judicial examinations is normised and the criteria for the appointment of trainees are regulated. And unfortunately, it creates sometimes situations where different populations are present as to why someone is appointed or not. In fact, the fact is that the competition, which is understandable and understandable, is nice for trainees who are being interviewed in judicial bodies, is more people than is being admitted to certain judicial bodies. For example, 50 people are named 3 people. Then in such a situation, it is really hard to choose the best of them. The tender committee carefully examines all applications and proposals from candidates including one of the criteria is the results on, during individual grades at the university i.e. One of the guidelines, therefore, which helps the competition commission, is also supported by some other elements, but also by the opinion of the head of the body. Namely, the head of the body in which the body is appointed invites all candidates who have contacted them personally, acquires their own court and then makes a proposal for the same number, a slightly larger number of candidates who are to be admitted into that body. The process is assessed, of course, by its significant basic affinities, a place that occurs often to be reported, for example from Split, and Zagreb is running, etc. On the basis of this, the Competition Commission is considering all these proposals, registered candidates and proposing that the Minister of Justice make certain candidates to be appointed. The Minister of Justice also acts on a proposal from the Competition Commission to adopt and make a decision on the admission of trainees to certain judicial bodies. That's one thing. In doing so, I must stress that the party membership of the candidates has no influence whatsoever, neither is it written nor is it sought, nor is it any effect on their appointment. I use the occasion, let me just be something broader to say that, unfortunately, it has shown, and it is within the framework of the judicial reform that the way in which the practice takes place at all... The legal exam is not good for training people today, tomorrow for working in judicial bodies and the Ministry of Justice as part of this reform, not only will the Law on Courts be amended, but also this Law that is important for education, education of the Law on Exercisers, and hopefully, we believe, we will make it more clear that we will not be able to pass through such a law as we have any space then with various interpretations. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19830	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19831	Of course I'm not happy. For as long as you try to transfer responsibility to the Commission, you have failed, for this injustice indeed cries out to God. And it would be correct to make it right. He's actually hungry from the outside. He's in the pit. Minister Primorac says, the entire government, knowledge, education are our priorities. It's a priority in the rulebook, but you didn't stick to it. You didn't hold on to him. So, still, I know it may be human to sin. And as sad and sad as it is that you've done, your excuses are even more... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19832	Thank you very much. The word is, don't, you didn't get the word. Thank you. He has a word and will ask a question from Mr. Stjepan Fiolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, Mr. Cobankovic. Mr. Minister, when can the start of the operational programme of bovine production in the Republic of Croatia be expected?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19834	Thank you. Mr. Minister Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Here, I'll give you a quick answer. In the beginning of next month, a concrete start of the operational programme for increasing cattle production in the Republic of Croatia can be expected. Let me just say, by the way, that this is one of the strategic projects of the RES. We also need to increase the production of milk and junk meat. Because the fact is that we don't only have enough in milk production or meat production. For these reasons, we have set out and we want to implement such a demanding programme that should also be reflected in the entire agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia, because by increasing both cows and heroes, consumption and demand and consumption of food are increasing. So in an indirect way or rather a direct way we solve the issue of war production. As for the programme itself and the conditions, in the first phase, the programme will be based on HBOR loans. We managed to set up a credit line for HBOR. It will also be a favourable credit line, credits at 10 years from two years of greis period and a 5% interest rate. The Hamag Guarantee Agency will also provide 50% or better to monitor the investment by ensuring 50% of the guarantees for certain loans that will be used for the adaptation and equipment of the facilities and the purchase of the hero. Also within the ministry there is a model of investment support, where grants will also be provided up to 25% for this programme. This is what should be very attractive for our producers and I believe that in this period of 5 years, how we have planned to achieve this strategic project of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19836	Thank you very much. Mr. Fiolic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19837	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Yet in this government finally someone began to think about the manufacturers, and on behalf of them I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19838	Thank you very much. He's going to ask Mr. Agent Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here's what I'm not getting at right now, because I was thinking of asking the opposite question from my colleague, Mr. Secretary. So let me say hello to you in front of the peasants whom they sent, "Let's have fun till Christmas, so let's all spend Christmas together as we have these summer holidays, and let's let them have some products." And they told me to ask you, how would you react to your salary cut 30% without anyone telling you about it? She did it. I think it'd be a reaction that upsets all of us. That's what our government did, because it brought quotas to the peasants when they were neither guilty nor debtors, nor knew that they were hit by those quotas, because they made spring and autumn crops, and they were denied incentives, like livestock, 30%. Mr. Minister, I'm looking forward to your operational program right now, but I don't know why you'd first lift one of the rights that the peasants had, in order to bring themselves here in another way? First of all, we don't have enough of them, let's go stimulate them, we have them now I don't know how many 20, 30 grand, we can't sell them, we can cut them for the first wire because we don't need them, but we're going to get new credit lines. In order for the old government not to work well, the new government must come up with something new. And now as 200 million, 200 million kunas are less livestock-based, we encourage production, I don't know how it grows, I don't know. And I don't trust anything with this paper that you're talking about. Because this government has reduced incentives to reduce the agricultural budget, increase consumption and Croatian food is more difficult to see on the Croatian table, especially in tourism, it was not even primitive, everything came from exports. And now, given that I as a Parliamentary, let me finish the question, I have no idea about the strategy of joining the European Union and how this government is going to bring us into the European Union. I ask you, do you think that the peasants must be destroyed first, that culture and customs must be suppressed in the country, perhaps in another way, to bring these dead people back to life so that they can go to the European Union. If that's your European strategy, you poor mother. So try to explain to me if you can't, I'm asking you a nice written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19840	Thank you very much. Minister Petar Cobankovic will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19841	This is a very complex question, I will strive in the shortest lines to answer. And you'll get a written answer, you'll get a complete written answer. Like this, I'll concentrate on a few things. No reduction of rights, no reduction of rights to incentives. You know better, far better than I do, because you've been involved in the adoption of the Law on Monetary Encouragement and Support, and you know how regulated payments are and what everything needs to be in accordance with the law. You are well aware that it is the duty of the Ministry and Government to bring an annual programme of maximum amounts encouraged for all cultures and for all forms of cultivation. Unfortunately, in the last year, you didn't just do it for political reasons because it was a pre-election year, you didn't want to bring it up so you could say now that here this government is applying something for the first time. We apply and enforce the law, gentlemen! It's another thing. I have a responsibility to say here, it's ultimately in the interest of agricultural producers. We have come to realize that for the last year of this year, we had to pay 820 million kuna commitments that were to be paid in 2003 and were not paid. And also, because of the maximum amount of incentives we've put ourselves in a position that 420 million more have been paid for last year on the basis of the right than was planned for the budget. It's now reflected in this year. Next, if we continued with this dynamic, then it would happen to us, you know what would happen to us? In order for support and incentives to be paid, we now pay them off with no idea how much or better to calculate with how much those who have not been paid for the past year have not been paid. It would come to pay off with a year's delay. And it would probably come in a year and a half and two years. Next, the budget did not reduce the item and I think that once we clear up, you will get complete support data and budget incentives for this year are not reduced. But unfortunately, other obligations have arisen because of the law's non-implementation. And you're also an advocate who participated in law-making and I, as a minister, am obliged to enforce laws. Supports are being served, and we'll serve them. We've introduced certain dynamics. The part we were late we led to some satisfactory level and level. As for the increase in imports, gentlemen, did anyone in this country ever think we wouldn't have a significant increase in imports in this year? So remember what we got into this year! No wheat, no corn, no livestock food, with the prices of livestock food, the way they are, no cattle in the tow, no sugar. I admit that part of it is the result of an elemental accident that was last year, which is drought. But it's also the consequence of not leading, not strategic farming. We, in the same year, actually last year from, after the harvest, exported about 90 thousand tons of wheat at the price that it was, and that's what I'm going to describe to you. And then in 2004, we had to introduce 90 thousand tons of wheat. Gentlemen, it's no wonder, but I guarantee that in this period ahead of us, we will stabilize the market. that we will eliminate the gray market, that we are on our way, that we are implementing the Law on special conditions of placing flour on the market, that there is a commission to regulate the meat market, the black market, that we have solved the surplus livestock, that we have solved the wheat issue [[I'm sorry, Minister, finish.]] And service the payment of the support and the products sold to be charged. [[Finish the Ministers, finish up. Finish the answer.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19842	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19843	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, for trying to convince me that we are well. But I'm transferring you less funds coming to the country, limited resources from green businesses, dissatisfaction is growing and some support has been abolished. As much as you assure me, but I assure you as little as possible in my pocket of money, I'm more dissatisfied with it. The strategy and these papers that were made, absolutely yes, but behind that need material support. As soon as there's no means, there's no well-being for us, you know it well! Therefore, more means should be given to the country than to abolish certain rights, and these elaborates that you believe more or later, and you are in a position to respect them, it is not good for you to take it out on your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19844	Thank you very much. And as the last to ask a question, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers and ministers. My question will be to ask Mr. Minister of Labour and Entrepreneurship, Mr. Branko Vukelic. The question I ask you concerns the missing peasant wheat in two companies in Lika-Podravska County, the agricultural transport and the class in Slatina. So I'm asking you, is there any way to calm down the stolen peasant wheat from the peasants of the Personal and Podravna County and when will the perpetrators of this big robbery be discovered?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19846	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, thank you for asking, you're asking this again, you're taking care of 4261 peasants who were really damaged during the alienation of 4.5 thousand tons of wheat. I said for the first time, there is no responsibility of the Croatian state, there are persons, companies that are responsible for this, but the fact is that the criminal proceedings are ongoing, the proceedings are ongoing and the question of how long the damaged peasants can wait. We are today able to find a solution for two important reasons and two assumptions that were created in Croatia. The first is that the supply office has been put in order and that the business of this principalship and all of the goods he cares about and so the wheat has been stabilised. And secondly, this year, a very good action was carried out to buy out wheat in the joint implementation of the three ministries and finances and agriculture and the economy. And we have stockpiled wheat supplies, so we have the opportunity to intervene with wheat from supplies and such a single proposal is made in the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship. They will be referred to the government in these next sessions and can promise you and all the damaged peasants that they will receive compensation and that this will be done by the Croatian Government or the state of Croatia at this time until the proceedings are resolved and the real culprits will finally bear that expense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19848	Thank you very much. Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19849	I thank you, Mr. Minister, and thank the Government for understanding in the hope of a near solution and reconciliation of rural needs once again on behalf of all farmers of Lika-Podravska County I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19850	Thank you. We conclude this part of today's session and the continuation of the session is precisely at 3:00 p.m. where the first item of the agenda is the report of the mandate-immunity commission on the mandate of Mr Piplovic at 3:00 p.m., please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19854	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs are continuing to work, now it's... Because we do not have a quorum to collect the report of the mandated immunity commission on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Mate Brletić and the start of the parliamentary mandate of Deputy Representative Frana Piplovic, we will return to that point immediately as soon as the quorum is in the assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's go to the next one. 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods Contracts by Inland Waterways, with a final draft of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 142 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Branko Bačić, State Secretary, Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19855	Dear MPs, we have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods Contract by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was signed by the Budapest Convention in Budapest on 22 June 2001. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution and Article 16 The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament to ratify, therefore, the Convention on the Transport of Goods by Inland Waterways. This Convention, namely this Law which we propose to adopt today, provides for a way to contract the carriage of goods on internal navigation, the rights and obligations of Contracting Parties, the provisions on transport documents, the rights to the supply of cargo, liability and the amount of damages incurred on cargo, and the handover and the time limit for the advertising of goods. The reason why this Convention is indeed and is signed is precisely the difference in international terms and, above all, in the European legislation relating to the transport of goods to internal waters. Therefore, even before the signing of this Convention as the basis for its creation, it was the difference in the approach, the way in which goods are to be transported to internal waters. A declaration was signed in Rotterdam, which obliged all the participants of the declaration to draw up one final text of the proposal of this Convention, which we therefore propose here today for adoption, which would mainly regulate this matter and which would then, in a certain way, undertake national legislation in certain parties to participate in this Convention to comply with this Convention, therefore, with its legislation. That is why based on this Rotterdam Declaration is a committee composed of representatives of the Central Committee for Navigation, the Danube Commission of which is a member of both the Republic of Croatia and the Economic Commission of the United Nations for Europe in Geneva, whose members we are also members. So they founded the committee that formed this Convention. The application of this Convention will allow easier and easier conclusion and enforcement of the Inland Navigation and Commodity Contracts on the crossing of inland waterways, which are primarily roadways compared to other land transport branches... and the railway has economic advantages and significant environmental advantages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since, after the Homeland War, there was once again a significant increase in domestic water transport on the one hand. In this respect, the need and maintenance of these waterways, further, is the need to invest in ports located on internal waterways. Our ministry also established an Internal Navigation Agency that cares, cares for the maintenance of waterways and that cares and cares clearly, therefore, and about the safety of navigation on these internal roads. As an example, to highlight the fact that in the state budget, 80 million kunas have been allocated in order to maintain and mark waterways on the one hand, and on the other hand to invest in our ports, in the first row Vukovar, Osijek, Slavonski Brod and Sisak. The fact that it is precisely in these ports that there is a requirement for larger quantities of cargo goods, states us to work that for these ports the relevant master plans and other documents of spatial arrangement are being drawn up so that they can satisfy these requirements that appear clearly in the ever-increasing demand for the transport of goods in the inner waters. Therefore, our government has signed such a convention, and we hope that its application will be in full compliance with our national legislation on domestic water transport. Clearly, then, to enable the uniformity of the regulations of all States which are practically participants of this Convention, and then clearly then to enable and certainly economic growth and the take-off of this branch of activity which I have recently repeated increasingly prominently. For example, today there are already requirements that a port such as Vukovar could meet all the conditions that should be met could overload almost a million tons and at this point loads somewhere between 200 and 250 thousand tonnes. Therefore, it is clear from our proposal that, for these reasons too, the unification of this regulation, the signing of this Budapest Convention, therefore, also enables the economic growth of space which clearly relies on the adoption of this Law. In this regard, the ministry therefore proposes that the parliament adopt the Law confirming the Budapest Treaty Convention, on the transport of goods by inland waterways by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19856	Thank you very much. The government is proposing. Legislative Committee, Committee on Maritime Transport and Links, Honored Representative, Committee Chairman, Mr. Cacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19857	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. As rapporteur at the Assembly session, I was appointed by the Committee. The Committee considered the proposal for a law confirming the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods by Inland Waterways Treaty with the Final Proposal of the Law as the home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal from the proposer to adopt the law following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We listened to the opening statement of the proposing representative, who, among other things, pointed out and explained the duty to adopt the proposed law. The Committee did not have any objections to the text of the final draft law and after the discussion of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections has unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law confirming the Budapest Convention on the Treaty, on the Transport of Goods by Inland Waterways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19858	I thank the president of the Committee. No one's reported for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. We will vote on the debated points of the agenda. The first is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods Contracts by Inland Waterways. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like Mr. Drazen Bregletz's secretary of state to show himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19860	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19861	Thank you very much. I'm voting on the final bill, who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 96 votes for the adoption of the Law attesting the Budapest Convention on the Transport of Goods on Inland Waterways in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. 3. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of Double Taxation of Income and Property Taxes, with Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, Proposal for Law No 144. The Proposer is the Government. We've accepted an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, finance and state budget, the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19863	Thank you very much. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I don't think it should be further explained that in the government's materials everything is clarified which is important. So the negotiations started, they were from 13 to 17 January 2003, but I would just like to say that the government accepts the amendment of the Legislative Committee so that it enters, as an integral part of the bill's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19864	I thank the minister. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? The Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19865	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club, I'll be brief. First of all, we support the conclusion of interstate contracts like this one on the avoidance of double taxation. But I asked on behalf of the HSP Club and at the session of the Committee on Law on how much does this person currently refer to us Croats? It used to refer to our friend, Mr. Ciru Blažević, who was a football coach for Iran. At this point, I think it only applies to two people, that it applies to Ivankovic and Belina, and we want Mr Chira to heal quickly. Why am I saying that? I'm saying from that fact that if we go into the conclusion of these agreements we have to make diplomatic and economic efforts in a way that the level of economic cooperation between Croatia and Iran is far higher than it is now because, according to all data, annual statistics, that level is really low between us and Iran, and there is a great possibility. We know how much exchange she had with Iran's former state. These were huge annual exchanges of U.S. goods in dollars, and now that level is at low levels. And here we must also be aware that we and the press have a lot of anti-Islamic thesis that appears in Croatia, which may also not contribute to our economic co-operation with Iran, to the one in which we can and in a way that we place our products on both our technology and thus we should also discuss in the sense that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs becomes part of us to promote the economic interests of Croatia, Croatian companies and Croatian entrepreneurs, and therefore I want the Government to take action on behalf of the Club so that this does not only apply to Mr Ivankovic and Belin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19866	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Second. The final draft law on the confirmation of contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the avoidance of double taxation of income and property taxes. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Legislatives has been accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 105 votes, this Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19869	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So after the negotiations were held on 24 June, the text of the treaty was agreed and signed in Zagreb, and what I would like to say is that the Government accepts these two amendments to the Committee on Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19870	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? They don't want to. There are no notifications for this theme. I'm closing the debate. Third. Final proposal for a law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Chile on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance. The amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the applicant. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 108 votes for the proposed law along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19873	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Agreement on the prevention of a programme broadcast from stations outside the state area was established in 1965. It shall apply from 1967 and shall aim to prevent the transmission of programmes from stations installed on ships and aircraft and other water and aircraft facilities and the programme shall apply in whole or in part to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. We propose that this agreement be ratified because this, with the agreements that follow, would represent a total ratification of the European acquis. I would also like to point out that all the houses involved or able to participate in the broadcasting of such a programme supported the ratification of this Agreement. Thank you. And we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19874	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee? The Committee on European Integration? The Committee on Information, Information and Media? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system? I'm opening a debate. No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. Fourth. The final proposal for a law confirming the European Co-operation on the prevention of a programme broadcast from stations outside the state area. The proposer accepted the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that it is unanimous with 112 votes for the proposed Law, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19877	This agreement aims to establish a more free exchange of programmes through television films. We can say that although Croatia has not ratified this agreement, in practice such exchange has been made since before and I would also like to point out that we also accept amendments to the Committee on Law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19878	Thank you. Do any of the reporters of these committees want to take a word for it? No, I don't. He's opening a debate. No MPs and no MPs have been reported. I'm closing the debate. Fifth. Final proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the Exchange of Programmes through television films. The proposer accepted the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes to pass this final bill along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19881	This Agreement aims to protect the rights of broadcasters with regard to the re-emission, fixation or public communication of television programmes, so preventing copyright infringements is another form of protection of television programmes. The ratification of this convention was also supported by television publishers in Croatia. I would also like to point out that we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19882	Thank you. Do any of the rapporteurs of those committees who held the hearing? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his word. I'm closing the debate. Sixth. Final proposal for a law confirming the European Agreement on the Protection of Television Programmes. The proposer accepted the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes to pass this Law as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19885	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 8th session held on 14 September 2004, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament found that by resigning from the parliamentary office of Deputy Representative Mati Brletić, in accordance with Article 10. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ceased its parliamentary mandate and the conditions for the other deputy MPs to start acting as representative. The commission found that Mr Mate Brletić started acting as deputy MPs in the V. constituency, as a candidate on the list of the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Democratic Centre instead of Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. The commission found that by the end of Mr Mate Brletić's parliamentary mandate and informing the coalition of the Democratic Centre parties and the Croatian Social Liberal Party in accordance with Article 12. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament on a person who, instead of Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, will exercise a representative's duty met by law laid down conditions for the start of the parliamentary term, deputy representative Frana Piplojic. In accordance with the words, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament after the debate was held to decide on the termination of the parliamentary mandate of the deputy MP and the start of acting as deputy deputy MPs. On 15 September 2004, Deputy Representative Matija Brletić's parliamentary term of office was suspended, and the parliamentary duty is in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament began acting on 15 September 2004 by Deputy Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19886	I thank the President of the Commission. I'm opening a debate on the report. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Who's in favour of the motion for this decision? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that a proposed decision has been adopted unanimously with 85 votes. We're moving on to giving an attorney's oath. In accordance with Article 7. Rules of Procedure, MP Frano Piploic will be sworn in. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the representative, after being called up, says, "I swear." I'll read the text of the oath, and then I'll invite you to swear. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will abide by the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Mr. Puplitch, please stand up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19887	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19888	Thank you. Congratulations to MP Frana Piplopic on his sworn oath and I wish him success in performing an honorable and responsible representative's duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19889	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 9th session held on 22 September 2004, the written request of MP Željko Ledinski from 7 September 2004, which was notified by the President of the Croatian Parliament in accordance with Article 14. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, on re-behaving as a representative. The commission found that Mr. Zeljko Ledinski's term of office, elected on the list of Croatian Peasants' Party in the 6th constituency began on 22 December 2003, and that his deputy Mr. Zdenko Haramija started acting as a representative in the Croatian Parliament on 22 December 2003. In view of the fact that Mr. Zeljko Ledinski is in accordance with Article 14(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament filed a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament, the commission found that the conditions laid down by law were met, and the rest of the parliamentary mandate of MP Zeljko Ledinski would cease on the day when the decision to suspend the stay would be taken by the Parliament, and the same day would stop his deputy Zdenko Haramija. In accordance with the words, the mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament after the debate was held that it should decide to suspend the term of office of the representative and to suspend the deputy representative's term of office. It is determined that the stay of MP Željko Ledinski's term of office ended on the day when the decision to suspend the term of office was taken by the Parliament and that Mr Zdenko Haramija's deputy representative stopped acting on the same day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19890	I swear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19891	I congratulate the representative on his sworn oath and wish him success in performing an honorable and responsible duty. 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 148. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We've adopted an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative and European Integration, Education, Science and Culture, which reports other than the Legislative Committee have not arrived, you received at the session. I ask the State Secretary at the Ministry of Culture, Mr Antolovic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19893	The Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, which we propose for ratification, was established in 2001, so it is a new international treaty and 20 ratifications are needed to take effect. At this point, we have data that only two countries have ratified the convention in question, while the ratification is currently under way in Italy. So Croatia will be the third or fourth state to join this Convention. The Convention is of great interest to the Republic of Croatia, since it provides protection for underwater cultural heritage located outside the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia, therefore in that area which can be declared an epicontinental belt, i.e. economic. Also, newspapers in this Convention are the very definition of underwater cultural heritage. It is a definition that is significantly wider than the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods according to which, according to this broader definition, every trace of human existence over 100 years in the underwater cultural heritage would be counted in the sub-sea. This Convention also allows for infitu to be protected by all hydro-arechological sites outside territorial waters, but also to strengthen the standard of protection within territorial waters. There's so much for now, if there's any questions, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19894	Thank you very much. Since we have a quorum now, please just, so we're going to interrupt this point for a moment to verify the mandate of the new representative. We are going back to the debate on the final proposal for a law on the validation of the Convention and the protection of underwater cultural heritage. Do any of the rapporteurs of the Committee on Law, European Integration or Education, Science and Culture want to orally explain the Committee's report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS club, respected representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19896	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad we have a bill like this before us. It is certainly positive to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage and it is certainly commendable that the Government has taken an interest in starting at least on a declarative basis, and in the context of concern for the preservation of heritage, and we are also in line of course with European legislation. It would be good to have our cultural heritage, any. So, not only is she underwater, she's saving, and not except for good intentions, there's got to be a lot of effort, knowledge and money to make. When we talk about money, the Convention itself shows that the Ministry and the Government will do whatever it takes, but that will practically cost them nothing. For a long time, the IDS has been talking about protecting the Adriatics through other segments and ways where we asked the government to participate more actively, but during time it proved that it was not very interested in protecting the Adriatic. And if it's to judge by the monumental heritage rent that practically transferred to units of local self-government, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and citizens, so I hope that another burden on the protection of the Adriatic will not fall just to the Adriatic counties, municipalities and cities. But to return a little to the protection of the Adriatic, and it seems to me that so far the Adriatic counties have made a great effort to protect their coastal and coastal belts, and indirectly so also to certain segments of the protection of underwater cultural heritage. All our counties in the Adriatic two years ago signed the Opatija Declaration on the Protection of the Adriatic, i.e. the Adriatic Agenda 21 where 3 Adriatic counties launched the initiative, Istria, Primorje-goranska and Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, with the support of the Assembly of the European Regions, the Council of Europe and the United Nations, or segments dealing with the Mediterranean. In addition to our regions, Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, Slovenia and the regions of Italy were included, of course, those that are by the sea. And they've all committed themselves to protecting the Adriatic. As for our counties under this patronage that I was talking about, the government didn't exactly get involved in that segment, but I hope it's not too late and there's time and it's going to get involved. I have to admit, there's a lot of problems. Here, let's just say that we can paint it in a picturesque way when there was a budget and when we asked the Primorje-Gorski County to return the funds we spent on cleaning up the polluted space that was dropped by the El Hai Star ship in Kvarner. The ship is owned by the state and entered into a budget of 850 thousand kuna for this year, to produce project documentation for the extraction of such submerged ships, so that no such pollution would happen again. And here we believe that the state must provide funds and hope that the next budget will be provided with funds for such project documentation. If estimates are made as much as our Adriatic is threatened, we know that the Adriatic Sea is a closed sea and that it really needs to be preserved as the dearest pearl, then really no money is a problem to let that pearl remain the way it is. As for units of local self-government operating along the Adriatic Sea, you will certainly have a good partner in cooperation. I can set an example also so that in the spatial plan of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County really takes care of the sea as much as the space because we know that more than 55% of the territory is practically under the sea. The plan also speaks of sustainable development both at sea and on land. Here, I can give you this Adriatic agenda later if it's for the future we should all really contribute to protecting the Adriatic. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19897	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honorable representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19898	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The intensive development and increasingly frequent implementation of construction works, economic activities, and recreational and sports activities taking place in the sea or in land waters lately pose an increasing danger to underwater cultural heritage and make it significantly more difficult to protect it effectively. This fact has long been warned in the international scientific public, resulting in the adoption of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. The direct incentive for the attempt to organise and regulate international cooperation at which an explicit emphasis has been placed in the said Convention was a series of surveys that have been unauthorized in international waters in recent years, which, due to the absence of appropriate laws and regulations, could not be controlled or stopped. This text of the Convention recognises the importance of underwater cultural heritage, its research and conservation. The importance of international cooperation and improving the effectiveness of protection measures at international, regional and national level. The threat of underwater cultural heritage to unauthorized activities with the aim of its acquisition or sale is also recognised, and the need for research and protection is highlighted... , i.e. due to the necessary professional specialisation and specific scientific methods, techniques and equipment used to require uniform management criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In view of the large area of the sea and land waters, and their marked transport, strategic and economic importance, in all periods of human history, the Republic of Croatia is rich in underwater cultural heritage for which all the views of the introductory text of the Convention can be fully applied. Similarly, it is legitimate to assume its existence within the continental band of the Republic of Croatia in which the laws and regulations so far do not allow for its proper legal and physical protection. All articles of the Convention fully comply with measures to protect the underwater cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia that are being implemented and envisaged in the near future. Confirmation of the Convention is so far refused by countries that are unauthorized to investigate shipwrecks in international waters such as America or Great Britain, and Greece, where most of the data on underwater cultural heritage is strictly confidential data that cannot be offered to the international scientific public. In the system of protection of underwater cultural heritage, which is in force in the Republic of Croatia, there is no problem with confidentiality of data because data on immovable and mobile cultural heritage entered in the Register of protected cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia are regularly published in the National Journal. The problem of research in international waters relates mainly to the Adriatic area and relations with the neighbouring Republic of Italy. The Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage allows a country whose exclusive economic zone or continental belt is located in an underwater cultural heritage, allowing or prohibiting any activity towards that heritage. Which in the case of the situation in the Adriatic Sea is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Italy has introduced the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Undersea Cultural Heritage into its law, and ratification is expected next week. In November 2003 and March 2004, a meeting of representatives of the member states of the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative was held in Portorož and one of the conclusions of the Round Table in Culture was to support the governments of all countries in ratification of the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Protection. Therefore, in the HSP, we believe that ratification of this convention is a significant step in protecting underwater cultural heritage in the sea and inland waters of the Republic of Croatia. And that the measures provided for in the Convention can greatly assist us in organising and implementing its effective protection. So we in HSP support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19899	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS PGS Club, Honorable Representative Miljenko Doric, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19900	Mr. President, distinguished members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. There is not much to add here, however, and to discuss the Convention itself, I think we are all in agreement that we should support it and that Convention should sign and raise our hands by, however, as stated in the opening statement, it is much wider than our laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. So first of all, I would like to underline my colleagues and colleagues that we have a completely new, very precise task with the application of professional and internationally agreed methods of protection of underwater cultural heritage. I don't want to quote here, but if you want to look at it, you have in Article 21 of the Convention an article dedicated to these very new methods of new technologies that need to be mastered, learned, and transferred to our institutions to do so. So that's one thing. Second, the primary objective of the Convention itself is to preserve cultural heritage in situ, which means on the spot in the sea. If we now have these two findings in mind, we put them together, we clearly come up with what, the need arises for the training and transfer of technology and for the cooperation of our Ministry of Culture to change a lot in relations, in vertical relations towards our counties and larger county centres. I'm absolutely clear here on coastal counties. There is a lot to be done, big and big steps, and I would ask Mr. President here, that perhaps our working bodies, when we pass these laws, should consult and call on these working bodies and representatives of those counties, those cities where such cultural institutions work in this matter to consult them in advance and not post-festum. I asked in the Primorje-Goran County and people from several museums and from the Department of Culture and Development if they knew anything about this convention, if anyone consulted them, they all said no, we will accept the convention and then we will. They clearly, neither the law nor the bill nor the Convention under this Law they did not receive, therefore they could not give me as counsel to what to be done. So I've read it all myself, and I'm giving it away, not just these two remarks, but the third. In fact, this refers to the fact that we have proposed this bill, namely, that the competent authority in charge of implementing the Law is the Ministry of Culture. All right, however, my complaint in this segment concerns a commitment arising from Article 22. The Convention where it stands to ensure the proper application of this Convention shall form a competent authority or extend the existing body with a view to ensuring, identifying, maintaining, updating the inventory of underwater cultural heritage, effective protection, etc. Therefore, under the Convention Article 22 is expected here to have a clear and expert body that will clearly monitor the implementation of the Convention itself, and not the Ministry of Justice, we are, in essence, giving the Ministry a bianco signature to form that competent body of the jury as it pleases, I think it would be the order, the minimum courtesy of correctness towards us Assembly representatives to at least say in which direction the Ministry is considering, how you intend to tomorrow that competent authority as referred to in Article 22. The Convention to form, from the order from which experts, from which area will it be some kind of vertical communication with the counties, their museums, experts etc. So you understand. This is what we normally read as an obligation from the Convention and we are essentially avoiding that obligation and we are going to the Ministry to oversee the implementation of the Law and not the Convention. For the Convention, they will have to clearly form a professional body with very competent and clear tasks. These are my personal objections and objections to the club, that we should be here, can make another small step so that tomorrow wouldn't happen if part of these misunderstandings don't be resolved when the Ministry is on this matter if this bill passes then the Ministry will have everything in its hands and we won't have any effect on the further appointment of that expert body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19901	Thank you very much. A respected colleague with regard to your suggestion that I should probably appeal to the presidents of the working bodies to include in the debate and representatives of the county, it is a ratification, a confirmation of international or interstate contracts where there are sometimes opportunities for certain provisions to be accepted or not accepted, to be a clause of resustainance, but it is a matter for the working body president to take care of it, so if there are such situations, then I suggest that the presidents of the working bodies also make suggestions and accept it. If the State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Jadran Antolovic, would like to be looked at, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19902	Let me thank you for the debate and take advantage of the occasion and underline some information which, since it was a ratification of the Convention, we did not highlight and are related to the observations that you made in the debate. In fact, I would like to point out that the process of confirming and adopting this Convention was very actively attended by Croatian experts, so as to say the creation of the convention itself and in all the meetings that preceded it. Namely, the Croatian Ministry of Protection, i.e. the Ministry of Culture, has more than 20 years of tradition of protection of underwater cultural heritage and we can boast of more than 300 localities in our Adriatic. Although I must admit that we are not a personnel delivery team, the Ministry of Culture has, for this very reason, consciously launched the establishment of a hydro-archaeological centre in Zadar that will be founded and part of a large institution called the Croatian Restaurant Institute to ensure professional equipment and staff teamranson to preserve this number of sites. Of course, we must be aware that these 300 are not the final figure and that many other sites that we even know to exist are not just located in the submarine we take over to preserve. I would also like to say that all protected sites on them are prohibited diving and all other activities and that only with the permission of the Ministry of Culture at such sites can take organised diving in commercial, therefore as a commercial business and participation in a tourist offer involving over 200 diving centres in the country. That's the part that's pointed out in the debate that we don't think in the county. We help these counties by giving these resources as a tourist offer both in creating new jobs and in significantly improving offers and tourism development. By investing exceptional resources precisely in the provision of technical and all other types of protection of these sites. It is not easy to protect such sites from devastation and from many tourists who come very well equipped to rob sites. We can't hide with all the confidentiality that can be established today, the localities given the equipment that the foreigners have from sonar and beyond, that I don't technically explain here, but with the help of the Croatian police and the Navy for now we are able to preserve this heritage. That's it. Thank you very much. And we accept the amendments of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19903	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Seven. Final draft law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage. The proposer also accepted the amendments proposed by the Legislative Committee. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes for the proposed Law in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19906	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Good bilateral military relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland are followed by good relations between the two countries in other areas of interstate co-operation. The largest number of activities in the current period achieved as part of the organisation of bilateral meetings and delegation visits and as a continuation and good cooperation there was a need to conclude an agreement between the governments of the two countries on the mutual protection of classified information. The agreement was signed on 20 September 2003, on behalf of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Poland. By confirming this agreement by the representative body of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian State and formally supports the signing of this Agreement. Mr. President, may I speak immediately of the proposed amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19907	And if you want to vote, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19908	On the text of this, the text of the Agreement in Article 3. The Committee for the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament has put in place an amendment which the proposing does not accept. The amendment reads that in Article 3 "the bodies of the Republic of Croatia responsible for the protection of classified information" are replaced by "the central authority of the state administration responsible for the defence of the Republic of Croatia". The amendment cannot be accepted because the implementation of this law and the implementation of other bodies and not only the bodies in charge of the defence issue, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19909	Thank you very much. Minister, please, in the future of the amendment, they will be shown by the motion when there is a vote, and now you say in advance, yes, that you do not have to come, but you will have to come, someone. He wants a representative of the Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19910	Well, here you are, Mr. President, and you yourself said that these things are being declared when deciding on amendments, but I can already say that the Committee will withdraw this amendment, which I am now doing. I therefore withdraw that amendment on behalf of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19911	The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Oh, no? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19912	Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Just from the point of view of Article 3 of this Act, the HSP Club warns of the following things. In fact, we will support the adoption of this law, but Article 3 speaks: The implementation of this law is within the scope of the bodies of the Republic of Croatia responsible for the protection of classified information. So, everything is said here, and there's nothing to say, because we here repeatedly warn about the situation in the intelligence community of affairs that go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and none of them are solved. The HSP club is, therefore, right from the point of view of point 3, watch out, Croatia has an obligation here to act on an international contract that is above the law under the Croatian Constitution, and Croatia must, meaning to carry out a full audit to bring the intelligence community into a position to do its job, to be full of coordination and cooperation and therefore it is necessary to do the following. All these affairs, and I'm saying the affair, I'm just going to remind you briefly, it was an affair about listening to reporters, it was an affair about presenting the affair on the Gotovina case, we had an affair with Končar. For all these affairs we asked the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and of this House to discuss, nothing was discussed, everything was put under the rug. It's all put under the carpet, and that's why, I say, we're getting into a situation where we're like, as the intelligence community does, that everything doesn't come to an end, that we won't be able to meet our obligation under Article 3 of this law. Therefore, there are extreme measures and that the Committee on Internal Policy maintains what it was meant to be because we still have a situation today that we are members of the opposition that we are sitting in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security brought before the final act. We were suggested to appoint a new director of the Intelligence Agency, without having received materials before, that we could check everything, see and perform one procedure that should be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19913	Col. Kovacevic, this is a confirmation of an agreement between the government...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19914	Yes, Mr. Shakespeare, read Article 3, I'm speaking from the aspect of Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19915	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19916	That the implementation of this law is within the scope of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia responsible for the protection of classified information, and you yourself know the situation in this area. So we appeal to be able to carry out international commitments, to make order in the intelligence community, and in this part of our concern for terrorism and everything else, we do what we're here for. And I'm particularly surprised, because this way that the minister said he wouldn't accept that amendment, it means that no one is doing anything again. We have a military intelligence community, we have a intelligence community, we have a counterintelligence community, we have the Ministry of Defense, we have the Ministry of the Interior, so let's say who's going to do what in that section. And we give when we make international contracts, we make a state of mind in our things so that we don't throw up, because I wouldn't be surprised that when Poland reads in the paper everything that happens to come out of this agreement with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19917	Yeah, yeah. I'm closing the debate. Eight. Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the mutual protection of classified information. The amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee was not accepted and the amendment was withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 113 votes for this Final Bill proposal to be adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19920	Is there anyone on behalf of the Committee? It's a club debate after the board's been reported. I find there are no reports on behalf of the board. You've received reports on the benches. We're going to the clubs. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19921	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court. He also thinks it's a good thing this law goes according to emergency procedures. In fact, the proposer himself here, in his explanation of the assessment of the situation and the goal that is to achieve it, speaks precisely about the positive situation that just early ratification of the Rome Statute, the Republic of Croatia has shown strong, political and formal legal support as soon as possible to establish and begin the work of the court. It is normal for this law to be a logical consequence of Article 48. The Rome Statute and this Law detail the privileges, immunities and other reliefs granted to a particular circle of persons acting in official duties for the purposes of the International Criminal Court. The need itself, i.e. when it comes to the statute itself, is, here is just to remind ourselves of the multiple interest, first because it was an International Treaty, therefore it is not de-located, and it contains what has been created by common efforts to form such an institution that will conduct criminal proceedings at international level for certain parts, in the first order of war crimes, but also for the second. Secondly, it is also important because it sets up one of the new rules of the International Criminal Institution, which is in principle a primate, it is of particular importance to us to the primacy of the national judiciary in the treatment of such crimes, which, to a significant extent, departs from the rules of the current ad hoc court in The Hague, is the same that is installed precisely for the areas of the former Yugoslavia, which, as such ad hoc, only still exists for Rwanda. And we are pleased indeed, and we support this proposal in every way, a team before ruling the HDZ that is now proposing this Law while in opposition it has shown great skepticism regarding even accession and confirmation, so ratification of the statutes of the International Criminal Court. At that time, right from the HDZ ranks, and we welcome this progress of showing great concern about what the emergency procedure was, so it was said, we are creating a really bad perception in the public that we are easily accepting everything that comes from the international community. We welcome that this skepticism towards the international community, especially towards important international institutions that need to be joined, so that certain rules can be created jointly, we certainly welcome that progress. There was also talk that there was no need to rush into it, that there was not a great world power of the United States that joined the statute not to approve of it, but to oppose it, and that we should wait with it all. That it is naive to expect that a quick approach to this statute can mean at all for Croatia that our legal professionals as officials, or officials of that international institution, are involved. However, it should not be disturbed from the mind that it was our internationally recognised expert on this right that Dr. Josipovic had a very promising chance and that they were not principles and sexual equality, representation could have become exactly one of the International Court's judicial officials. However, as regards the assessment and source of the necessary means of law enforcement, we believe that the applicant is wrong, as the applicant argues that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. That is not the case, and this is said in the words of the provision of Article 32 of the Agreement concerning the resolution of disagreements on the interpretation or application of this Agreement which, in the first two paragraphs of its sentence, speaks of the urgency of any conflict between the Court and the State of the Party, that these conflicts are settled by consultations, negotiations or other agreed means of resolution, but in the event that such conflict does not succeed, then such conflict between the Court and the State of the Party shall be decided by the arbitration court, so the court of ad hoc which, where Article 32 in its paragraph 3 refers to the arbitration court, is precisely that it is then up to the Member State to reimburse the costs of that court. I am saying this, therefore, that at this time Croatia is represented before several, in several cases before international institutions and here it is already evident that there will be no funds to represent Croatia in front of international institutions. Of course it's not a pretty picture that the state owes international institutions funds. And to train whether he is strict and disciplined and with his own citizens. So, the first state is obliged to meet its obligations. Therefore, this easy one to put this assessment is one serious grudge, because ultimately and the seriousness of the state is willing to carry out not only sign then is appreciated through such a fact. Therefore, here is the conclusion of the SDP Club which supports the adoption of this law, but certainly the proposer should consider and secure the funds if not at the moment, but very soon for the purposes of implementing this law. Because we see that the trouble has arisen with many of the laws that we have already passed, and where there is no means to implement them effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19922	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSP Club, a respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19923	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I think this is an opportunity for Croatia to show that it has some kind of self-respect. We are today discussing a law at a time when the Hague tribunal boldly refuses to recognise the Croatian government as a credible government. The least we could do at this time is delay the debate in, say, two, three months, that the Hague Court also notes that Croatia wants to be a partner in these relations. By the way, I don't know how well you've studied this bill. The amount of immunities that have the most different persons who are in one way or another related to the work of the Hague tribunal makes them privileged citizens in this country. They do not pay taxes, customs, victims, lawyers, court experts cannot be arrested or punished for driving under the influence of alcohol and above 0.5. For example, family thugs such as Anto Nobilo, who is the lawyer of the Hague tribunal, can speak in Croatian newspapers and in the world newspaper what comes to his mind and by the letter of this law also has a huge mass of privileges. All in all, I would like to propose and a consensus should be reached on this. I particularly appeal to the parliamentary majority that, as a minimum gesture, the self-respecting Croatian government of Dr. Ivo Sanader's high home, we may delay the debate or at least vote on this legislative proposal by 1.12 this year, and that the Hague tribunal may begin to think of us as an subject of international law and some inferior group of parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19924	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Fellow Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19925	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect and I am calling for the provision of Article 209 of the incorrect quote of the esteemed colleague Letica, who says that in the need that we have to stop this debate in the name of dignity when the court in The Hague does not release Generals Cermak and Markac. He probably didn't believe the Croatian government, but it has nothing to do with this proposal. It's a completely different court. It's just the intensities of the establishment because if this court had worked before then there would be no need to set up these ad hoc courts. Therefore, the functioning of this court and the establishment, and I repeat once again the role of this court, seems to be incomprehensible courts, an international court now operating in The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19926	Thank you very much. You'll have to answer for a hearing. I admit there was more explanation here than correction itself. Let's move on. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go, fellow representative!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19927	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Let me, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, say a few sentences on the proposal of this law, namely the Law on Confirmation, the Agreement on Privileges and Immunities of the International Criminal Court. Introductoryly, it should be said that the international legal framework for the adoption of the law in question is, first of all, a provision of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court adopted at a diplomatic conference organised by the United Nations on 17 July 1998, which was signed by the Republic of Croatia on 12 October 1998. Furthermore, on 28 March 2001, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the confirmation of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the Republic of Croatia is one of the original parties of the Rome Statute for which it has been in force since 1 July 2002. Therefore, by ratifying or confirming the Rome Statute, the Republic of Croatia gave unequivocally strong political but also formal-legal support and the establishment and effective start of work and the functioning of the court and the agreement in question on the basis of a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the International Criminal Court was signed on 23 September 2003. It should be pointed out that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in its Article 140, states unequivocally that international contracts concluded and confirmed under the Constitution and published in force form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia and are legally above the law. Their provisions may only be amended or abolished subject to the conditions and in the manner laid down by them or in accordance with the general rules of international law. Although the confirmation of this Agreement does not mean the adoption of new or amending existing laws, since an international contract that is closer to them is governed by issues (a) of legal status, (b) the taking of obligations to ensure the benefits of immunity, and (c) the financial discharges set out in the international agreement in question are also found in Article 18. Laws on the conclusion and execution of international contracts. Furthermore, the International Criminal Court has been established or established as a permanent institution, as stated by the basis of the provisions of the Rome Statute, authorised to carry out criminal proceedings or to execute judgment on the perpetrators of the most serious criminal offences significant to the entire international community. So it's about criminal acts involving the crime of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression. The Court itself has an international and legal personality and legal capacity in terms of achieving the purpose for which it was established and for the successful performance of its functions and in the territory of each State Party of the Rome Statute has the appropriate privileges and immunities of the need for its normal functioning. In particular, the Court shall have the capacity to conclude contracts, acquire and alienate immovable and movable property and shall have the right to appear before a court or the right to stand before a court. In particular, I would stress the importance of the provisions of Article 24 of the Agreement which determines how the courts work with the authorities of the States of the parties. The Court of Justice shall, at any time, cooperate with the relevant authorities of the States and parties in order to facilitate the implementation of their laws and to prevent any abuse in connection with privileges, immunities and reliefs. It is particularly important that all persons who enjoy privileges and immunities are obliged to comply with the laws and regulations of the State of the party in whose territory they are serving for the court or through whose territory they are passing such a service. They also have a duty to stay out of the country's internal affairs. The subject-matter of the Statute sets out a set of individuals to whom immunity institutes and privileges apply, as well as their content, although it is quite broadly defined when we talk about judges, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors and secretaries. These individuals enjoy almost identical privileges and immunities enjoyed by the heads of diplomatic missions. Content therefore and immunity of non-injuriousness, immunity of irresponsibility, as two substance-specific components of the same concept. Simplified immunity from arrest or imprisonment and from seized personal luggage, and immunity from any fate regarding spoken or written words, and from all acts committed in the official capacity, and such immunity shall also be granted to them after the end of their term of office in court. Finally, given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, and this is exactly what the State is formally expressing and willing to be bound and to exercise the rights and obligations laid down by the contract already signed, as well as the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract cannot be made at this stage, this proposal for a law should, of course, be adopted in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by emergency procedure, and all in the sense of the unequivocal fact that the Republic of Croatia, in its bid to join the European Union, points out a positive attitude towards the establishment of a permanent international criminal court and the beginning of its successful functioning. Accordingly, the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed law on confirming the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the international criminal court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19928	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We don't have any more club reports. In an individual debate, a respected representative, Drazen Bosnjakovic, was reported. I realize he's not in the hall, he's losing his word. There are no more registered representatives and MPs, nor are there any final presentations. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19929	Nine. Final draft law confirming the agreement on the privileges and immunities of the International Criminal Court. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like the Secretary of State, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Gordan Bakot to show off about the amendments. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19930	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we accept the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19931	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Second amendment to Article 4?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19932	I'll take it. Amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19933	It becomes an integral part of the law. And in Article 5, the third amendment also accepts which becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 110 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed law in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19934	The next item of the agenda is number 11. - Proposal for a law on production, distribution and supply of heat energy, with final bill, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 149 The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received reports on the benches at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Secretary of State, please. Mr. Vladimir Vrankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19935	Honorable MPs, good day to you. I'll try in a few words just to present the final proposal for a law on production, distribution and supply of thermal energy. The very reform of the energy sector to the Republic of Croatia began in July 2000 when the Croatian Parliament adopted a document establishing a concept of all reforms on a proposal from the government. Normally, the legal framework contains the regulations of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and comply with the then applicable European directives. It was brought in July 2001. These are the Energy Act, the Electricity Market Act, the Gas Market Act, the Oil and Oil Market Act and the Energy Activity Regulation Act. The Energy Act provides for the adoption of the Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy, which systematically and fully addresses all issues in the area of energy activities and production, distribution and supply of thermal energy. As for the assessment of the state of play in Croatia of heat supply, most parts of the city are usually through a centralized thermal system or from heat plants such as Zagreb, Osijek and Sisak. While the centralized thermal system is from local mini-heating or to boilers that supply certain urban settlements in almost all major Croatian cities, such as Rijeka, Varazdin, Koprivnica, Karlovac, Slavonski Brod, Vukovar and the like. In these cities, thermal activity operates with loss and is in technological difficulties. Programmes planned in the field of rational use of energy in heating include the replacement of master’s entire pipelines and the modernisation of the plant. Normally and because of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Common Economy, the Law on Heat Energy has been expelled from this Law and it has been transferred to the Energy Act and that is one of the reasons why it must be approached by the full resolution of this issue by law. What is the objective of law enforcement, and what are the expected effects of this Law? The proposal for a legislative framework for heat is aimed at fostering the development of many centralised thermal systems, as well as improving the efficiency of existing systems. Which is feasible in larger settlements and cities where there is sufficient density of heat consumption. Or at the same time the need for heat and electricity. The proposal for a law on production, distribution and heat supply is in line with the provisions of the relevant European Union guidelines. I will only tax them, that is Directive 2004/8 of the European Community, of the European Parliament and of the Council on the promotion of cogeneration based on the use of heat energy within the electricity market, which is complemented by Directive 92/42 of the European Community. The second Directive is the same in 2003/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the general rules of the electricity market. The third Directive is also 2002/91 of the European Parliament and of the Council on energy implementation of buildings. It should be stressed here that the above-mentioned European directives have been adopted after our laws. Earlier mentioned, this Law is also the beginning of the second phase of reform under the new Directives of 2003 and 2004 This ministry has already begun the process of preparing amendments and supplementing those laws, and I hope that, at the latest, the next year will be able to propose amendments and additions to the Government of the Republic of Croatia before those laws of 2001. What effect does the law have in economic and social terms? The adoption of the law will create preconditions for the adoption of a tariff system for energy activities and production, distribution and supply of thermal energy in the Republic of Croatia. The tariff system for heat will implement individualisation of consumption, installing energy consumption criteria, which means implementation of the consumer's principle pays as much heat as it spends. The bill provides for the introduction of automation amongst others, the sale of heat prices with a change in fuel prices, which is essential for the normal operation of thermal activity. Only adopted in the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy, Article 39. The energy law and the accompanying implementing rules which are the general conditions for the supply of heat, the tariff system, the rules on the distribution and supply of heat will result in necessary, positive changes in the operation of the thermal sector. In Croatia today, it is a legal obligation to install a heat meter in each newly built apartment and in existing apartments it is recommended to measure the consumption of heat to one of the methods that are technologically covered by European Union standards. This strengthens the confidence between the supplier and the heat purchaser as it will foster an efficient availability of energy. For the second reading, we will coordinate already the remarks we have and the normal ones we will get through this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19936	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Committee on the Economy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19937	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Economy, Development and Obon-Opion of the Croatian Parliament at the 15th session held on 14 September 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on the Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a Act of 4 August 2004, with a proposal to adopt, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed law by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposed law as a parent working body. Following the opening presentation of the representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's representatives, she said that urgent procedures should be avoided and in the regular procedure of passing laws with its provisions to meet consumers and suppliers. It is an important change in the existing system that can also affect the change in the price of heat and the change of suppliers, so public debate should explain to consumers new conditions. In the further course of the debate, it has been pointed out that effective pricing control mechanisms should be introduced in which social partners should certainly be involved. In view of the higher degree of transparency, it is proposed to introduce a specific tariff system for production, distribution and supply of energy. There is also a reference to the provision of a law governing preferential consumption, and that is, in the sense that it is not really clear from that provision who is the privileged consumer. The Union representative proposed that the social partner participate in the work of the Energy Regulatory Council for the transparency of the work of the Council as well as in the practice under which the Council reports on the final variable for the determination of energy prices and that the components for the determination of that price are not available to the social partner. The new law also provides for individualisation of consumer measurement, which is a positive newspaper. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that this approach is very difficult to operate in practice when it comes to older buildings. An important issue in the adoption of this law, as well as the laws governing the work of legal entities of a monopoly character, is the harmonisation of our legislation with European Union directives. This Act is also adopted in accordance with these Directives, which requires the creation of a better precondition for the transition from monopoly activity to the market. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, with 6 votes for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: the adoption of the Law on Production, Distribution and Heat Supply is supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19938	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on behalf of the Committee? I'm saying no. We can start a club debate. The first is on behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague, Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19939	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We at the HSP Club when we received a proposal from this Law with the Final Bill couldn't believe that the Government decided again over its feet to break such an important matter into an emergency procedure without the possibility of a broad debate although this Law is how we know it was made two years ago. The problem was that we had a number of objections on the Committee, and this time we unanimously agreed that this law cannot go according to the urgent procedure and here I would also ask that, in the future, on behalf of the Club, it should not be put in place for all matters of P.Z.E. Because here it's the case that it's a bad copy of the directive. The directives have been mistranslated, the directives are not legally processed and happiness is because if this law had been passed this week at the Croatian Assembly, it would have gone back to the detriment of who, the buyer, the consumer. Because overnight, from the field of municipal affairs, this system is proposed, moving to market bases. And all this stuff that was said would go to whose harm? At the expense of the final buyer, and if the provisions of the law are looked at if the buyer wants to change the distributor or the transporter, if he wants to install the measuring device to have its own, anything he wants to do is always said he needs the consent of the energy operator, and which is and who is the energy subject does not give the answer. Therefore, in one regulated state, this Law goes to the fact that the Croatian man is also disfigured, that the Croatian customer is devalued and enables a monopoly, meaning by this Act that he has passed in this form the monopoly of those, means distributors and all the burdens of the buyer. What do you think the law was passed to set up these measuring devices from the cost of distribution companies? It wouldn't work. So we know it's going to be contained this way or that way in the tariff. As the concession is scheduled, one is said to do so, there is nothing in the competition that is important for the selection. So I think the situation is such that the law has to be completely processed, that one full debate must be provided, and we should be aware of one fact. We need to determine exactly what municipal business is, and we need to be aware if communal business falls on the burden of municipalities and cities, municipal companies or on the burden of the state, there can be no demand then if we are a social state profit, profit in all this because how communal or public, public companies, public societies or city or any other can make a profit, can only be made in a way to increase the price. Only in a way that increases the price, which means that the final customer, means the consumer will pay higher amounts. It says the important news is that the price of heat is in line with the rise, so on the oil market we know what the situation is, we, I think the State budget is going to go up the price of oil derivatives because normally higher income is taken from excise duties, and we have examples of other countries that have reduced excise duties. It is therefore a sad fact that the government makes such a proposal that is not prescribed in any way by any procedure, is this administrative procedure if one of the customers asks for the connection of the device? Anything to look for is always said to be given consent, an energy subject when, within whatever time limit, you can appeal to, in what way is not said. Therefore, we cannot support such solutions as are contained inside, because this would once again mean the ultimate, the worst variant to increase the cost of living of Croatian citizens, and if the Croatian citizen does not have the ability to control, control and all other situations are about one pure monopoly, and we all advocate when it comes to this or that debate that we are against the creation of a monopoly, and this law creates a monopoly and we create that they will again pay for the Croatian man. We therefore suggest that in the second reading of all these remarks, be careful the Committee has had every comment on each article, on each article’s observations. Not that these were nomotechnical observations, these were the essential nature of the observations. We therefore include Croatian citizens, include the Consumers' Association and all others to participate in this appropriate procedure, because what is still happening is still happening. Let's just say we know for ourselves that already by adopting these energy regulations, they can no longer pay for municipalities and cities to people's gas connections. Because it's no longer community business in that part, but I still have municipalities and cities that pay for it. Although it's an illegal situation. If he receives in a proper return procedure, only the Croatian citizen who knows how to contact the State Inspectorate and someone else, the State Inspectorate to order him to return the money. But unfortunately, we know that our citizens are under-informed with their rights and how it all ends. So we protect the Croatian consumer and let's not turn everything on a Croatian citizen, on a buyer and not create monopolies, but let's make sure that people live, what kind of situation people are in. From day to day, the standard is getting worse, and prices are rising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19940	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. The next one is representative Ljubo Jurcic, on behalf of the SDP club, please choose a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19941	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister of the Economy. First of all, I want to say that the SDP club supports the adoption of this law. About production, distribution, heat supply. but he was against an emergency procedure and as we know at the beginning of today's session he goes into regular first-reading procedure. Just as the secretary of state said, the previous government prepared a proposal for a reform of the energy sector in 2000, and the Croatian Parliament agreed to this reform. The implementation of reforms meant that legal regulations define the way and functioning of the energy market on the one hand, tasks and behaviour of individual entities and the harmonisation of the rules applicable in Croatia. With the acquis of the European Union. That is, the European Community. As early as July 2001, laws were passed which were recently listed by the Energy Act, the Energy Regulation Act, the Electricity Market Act, the Gas Market Act and the Oil Market Act. These laws define a fundamental organisation and way of functioning of energy markets in Croatia. In addition to this fundamental legal framework over the past years, a number of sublegal regulations have been adopted. In order to fully regulate relations on energy markets, the Council for Energy Regulatory Activities was established later on the Environmental Protection Fund and energy efficiency in 2003, the company Ina and HEP has been restructured and so on. This appropriation is intended The Energy Act provides for specific legislation to regulate the production, distribution and supply of heat. And now we have before us this law, whose first draft was made in 2002 at the Ministry of Economy, and as far as I can remember, has not seen any significant changes. And that draft was then addressed to all interested entities, above all, those who carry out their thermal activity. The law is in line with the relevant European guidelines, and that is probably the easiest part of the lawmaking work. That is what we can say, a minimum and necessary condition that must satisfy all the laws that the Croatian Parliament adopts. The main question is what application of the law will affect the economic position of Croatian citizens. Croatian economic operators, both in short and long term. This Law regulates a relationship between relations in one very important activity, both for citizens and for the economy, local self-government and the development of the energy market in Croatia and finally for the entire Croatian economy. Therefore, it is necessary to carefully analyse how much must be done, which are positive, which are possible negative effects of this law and how to change other laws and sublegal acts that can be adopted under this Act, so that they can reduce negative effects and increase positive effects for Croatian citizens, for the Croatian economy. This Act is also sensitive because it is similar to other energy laws, aims to convert activity, production, distribution and supply of heat, which, under its technical conditions of business, falls within natural monopolies as it is to convert it into market activities, market entities. Where I say it by one administrative means defines or organises a competition in these activities, and in essence most of the entities in this activity realize some kind of monoplomic position Monopolist position always results in monopoly profits and monoplomic profits are increasing prices, and higher prices always mean a reduction of citizens' standards and a deterioration of business conditions for entrepreneurs. This Law provides, among other things, for the introduction of automation, the harmonisation of heat sales prices, with a change in fuel prices. In addition, real amotisation of existing facilities, as well as the necessary investments to build new ones, should be included in the price. All this will certainly result in an increase in heat prices. In view of the fact that heat prices have so far been administratively determined and that most of the energy operators have lost their business, this means that the price did not cover the depreciation of existing facilities and there were no funds for new ones. The transition to a new system of calculation of the price of production, transmission and supply of heat will result in a certain significant increase in its price. In addition, it should be respected that some time is needed to open the market for these services and create competition that would give users such choices. as well as enough time to allow the user of installation arranged to enable him to regulate and control his own consumption. By making an effort to turn this into a first reading without being an emergency procedure, I want to take advantage of the adoption of the law, not only to bring it into line with the European Union directives, or to bring it into line with the European acquis, but also to take into account all the specificities of Croatia and the existing situation on its energy market. We conduct liberalisation on this market in the most favourable way for consumers, or at least with as little shock as possible. We need to install provisions that will allow consumers to get enough time to adapt to the new system. In order to ensure the safe and stable supply of customers in the long term, in some cases and at minimum prices. To give all heat suppliers an equal opportunity without discrimination to supply customers with transparent conditions. In order to define the content and mechanisms of supervision and regulation that will enable such objectives to be achieved. These were the reasons for removing the emergency procedure, to create time and additional opportunities for achieving the goals set out in this law that would best suit Croatian citizens and the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19942	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club of HSLSA, the DCA representative, Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19943	Thank you very much, Vice President, and in this law as well as any other, we can offer some praise but also some objection. It is certainly commendable that the Ministry of Economy has prepared a proposal for a law on production, distribution, heat supply. But it's not commendable for the final bill. We could really support all those who warn that there is too little time left for public debate. In a public debate, a number of shortcomings can be removed, and what I find equally relevant is an opportunity for the public in this case to get acquainted with the news that such a law is passing. Of course, there are some other shortcomings that I hope will be corrected by amendments. In the assessment of the situation for the adoption of this Act in a few places, the main problem of thermal activity is that the energy price is formed market and the heating prices are determined administratively. Therefore, the fact that there is no automation in the rise in the price of heat caused by the increase in fuel prices for the production of that heat. Therefore, the introduction of automation is envisaged, in the determination of price. However, the way the price is formed will be defined by the tariff system, which will be brought by the minister. It would've been good if we'd looked as simple or banal to that tariff system as that got, we still had a little bit more sense in the opening statement. At the very least, because of our citizens. This law, which is likely to be one of our most important laws, probably many will not agree with me in that because citizens will feel it very quickly on their standard, because the price of heating will determine the amount of money that will remain for food in the winter, and that is why, because of the question of citizens' standards, it was possible to access the law more seriously in two readings. Namely, the amount of tariff items, it says, depends on the cost of production, distribution and supply of thermal energy to the distribution area. It is really hard to invent some of the more general criteria than those expressed in that sentence. Therefore, depending on the cost of production, distribution and supply of thermal energy to the distribution area. There must be some formula for citizens to calculate themselves. I think we are obliged as representatives to remind of another law, which is the Consumer Protection Act which says: "Sells to consumers of public services when the nature of public service allows must be calculated according to consumption during the accounting period by applying the tariff system on the basis of specific rules". However, we still have, for example. the payment to the square area which is opposed to all provisions for the management of energy consumption and savings. So the flats get cold, we know that, we can look at it when we go to work, so they heat up and the tenants are at work, weekends, vacations, but that's why the windows are opening, because the price is constant, instead of the power down. If someone were to look at us, for example. from Germany or Switzerland, then you'd think we were probably very rich when we could afford it. The way to charge heat to citizens in this way, I think, according to the apartment's square, I think you could compare it if we were to pay the electricity according to the number of bulbs or fuel at the pumps according to the cubicity of the motor. There's got to be some kind of better and more precise way. It is necessary to oblige all energy entities to sell heat energy to enable citizens to install heat energy criteria, so the bill states that a draft appropriate tariff system whose basic characteristics are the promotion of existing consumers, hence existing consumers, to introduce individual measurement of heat consumption, thus achieving a more rational use of energy. Therefore, the introduction of an individual apartment-level individual measurement, and where that is not possible, of an individual input. It has not been a problem so far in consumers, but in manufacturers and distributors. I think it's a completely evidenceable claim, because there's information that says that citizens wanted to introduce energy measurements, but the supplier wouldn't allow them in one way or another to object differently, and I think we can speak right at the water, because that way they would find it very difficult to charge water losses, and that was probably one of the reasons for such actions. For newly built-in facilities, calorie installation obligations are explicitly prescribed and this is to be welcomed, but for existing, existing spaces, I am afraid different administrative, administrative obstacles will be found. I think, therefore, we should make it clear to suppliers that existing consumers are able to install individual criteria, of course, if consumers want to install and pay them. Of course, you should see what if the supplier does not give consent to the installation of these devices. What's the deadline for granting consent? What if he doesn't betray her within the appropriate time limit? It is clear that it can also be prescribed by sublegal acts, but it would be good to see at least the indications of these answers in the law. So, because of these elements, we hold that it would be good for the law to go into two readings, to conduct a debate, and I think the Parliament can still make such a decision, so I call on colleagues and colleagues to pass two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19944	I thank Mrs. Vice President. I am informing the MPs that tonight's session of the Parliament will be completed at exactly 7:00 p.m. and that tomorrow it will begin at 9.30 p.m., so let's finish tonight. Now on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19945	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words about this extremely important law. They all agreed, and the HDZ Club also supports the discussion of this law and that all comments and suggestions on its completion and additions are made possible and that a law that will be far more high quality and efficient law will allow for the structure of the market for energy distribution, production and supply. Unfortunately, this has not been the case so far, and this is why it is very important for this law to appear in the parliamentary procedure in the first reading, and we believe that until the adoption of this law will be relatively short, and then what is most important is that this law really works and that production, distribution and supply of thermal energy will be part of a regulated market, a market on which it will be able to function and protect its interests all those producing heat. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case until now. "HEP", "Toping" and many others have done business with no small losses, as it has been said, due to the fact that the price of heat energy was not, it was not possible to align with the price of the Magut, gas, etc. Of course, the functioning of the distribution, production and supply markets of thermal energy is very important for consumers, but it is very likely that consumers will be surprised by the consequences of the implementation of the law. It is simply because of the fact that this system of production, distribution and supply in technical and technological terms, because of the above reasons, non-economic business could not be developed in a technical and technological sense. Therefore, this system will have to be invested in this system and certainly parts of these investment-related costs will be borne by consumers themselves. However, consumers will have one important privilege. They will be able to control the amount of heat consumed, which unfortunately has not been the case so far and the helplessness of consumers who had to pay and what they were not willing to spend is unacceptable for a single regulated market. So far, the production, distribution and supply of thermal energy as we know it has been regulated by the Law on the municipal economy. Based on this law, the distribution, production and supply of heat was considered a communal activity and the price was decided by local self-government units and this was not good. The consequences of all this, as is said, I point out and reiterated, have led to the neglect of this activity in technical and technological terms, the business of losses, due to low prices of heat energy, high fuel prices, i.e. the gas mule and to legal uncertainty due to the insufficiently regulated heat sector in the Republic of Croatia and without transparency towards end-users of heat energy, as the activity was not regulated by the relevant implementing rules. Furthermore, in 2001, as pointed out, the Council of the Republic of Croatia passed the Energy Act, which stipulates that the activity of production, distribution and supply of heat has to be regulated by a special law. Here are a few more words about the most important provisions of this law. It is most important to mention that this is, at all, the first law to be regulated in this area in an overall manner, by carrying out activities from energy generation through distribution to consumer supply. With this law, we are in fact establishing a new market that will be a major challenge, as I said for consumers and for those who produce heat energy, and for many others in particular, I would say to medium and small enterprises that will in this market in the technology sector, when it comes to the production of heat units of different types of calories meters, is a particularly important system of automatic billing, i.e. automatic charging of spent or spent heat. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has not yet functioned or automatically billing, i.e. automatic reading and charging or electricity so that there are great delays not only for reading but also for charging etc. And certainly it's one disorder and a risk on every market. Furthermore, this law will define and describe each of the activities and provide a legal framework for its functioning. The financing and construction, construction and distribution facilities with a special aspect of cogeneration facilities will be regulated and prescribed. The basic rights and obligations of energy operators carrying out and their activities and their relations will be prescribed. The rights and obligations of energy operators to heat customers will be prescribed. The basic settings of the tariff system will be defined and certainly this is the subject of which something has been said and discussed for a long time. It is determined that, following the adoption of this law, criteria of heat energy must be installed. That's easy to say, but it's not easy to spend. It is certainly a long-term and long-term process that will require standardisation of equipment, calibration, testing, formation of appropriate laboratories etc. Just remember how many problems there have been in the Republic of Croatia as regards the number of electricity, and in technical and technological terms measuring reliablely and transmission of these data is certainly a small challenge and opportunity for Croatian entrepreneurship. We're not going to let everything, but everything is being imported from "Simens", from Slovenia from "Skret" or someone else. Furthermore, this law will introduce the obligation of transparent business between energy operators and consumers and create legal assumptions for reform, i.e. I would say structure of the thermal and energy sectors in the Republic of Croatia and achieve long-term competitiveness of thermal activity in the Republic of Croatia. In the structure of the Croatian electricity industry's budget, or HEP-heating so far for all of these reasons was one of the, was one of the companies with no small losses. Furthermore, this law stimulates measurement and rational use of energy, promotes cogeneration and openness to the energy market, and in particular stresses concerns about environmental protection. It should be said that similar laws already have many other states. Over the 20 years, almost all Scandinavian countries, the Danes over the 20th year, Czechs since 97th, and the most important law for the first time lays down provisions on consumer relations to security of supply to the end of consumer performance, which is considered to be for the first time comprehensively regulated. There are certainly certain remarks and additions that will allow this law to be more quality and efficient in its final form. I would say this new sector is marketable is very important, this new one as popularly said jutiliti, electricity tax, water, heat becomes part of a new hopefully well-structured market. I'm not gonna say it again, but I'm stressing the importance of everything that's been said. Instruments, devices, calories, readings, making automatic bins, making appropriate software, allowing consumers to have control and insight into everything that happens at the level of their apartments, houses and everything else. Here's the shortest thing to point out. The HDZ Club supports this law as a good basis and a basis to structure and regulate the market for production, distribution and supply of thermal energy in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19946	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19947	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to say that we in the HSS will support the passing of such a law, but I also want to say it in a different way. We are mildly and astounded that the bill's proposal is being stamped by the Ministry of European Integration, which actually says that we have brought this into line with all the directives and recommendations of the European Union, but how best we have managed is the procedure where we go to another reading and the best tells us that the Committee on Law says that no article can go through an emergency procedure, or that I have to pass two readings, and perhaps even more. It will take quite a while, and here also energy to figuratively say in parliament to prevail. So what we're talking about here is a few categories and a privileged producer, we're talking about a privileged user, and the only thing that's unprivileged is the final buyer. It is that small consumer who will obviously be the only one who will be unprivileged in this entire system who will pay for the cost of building a new system, which will pay the cost of installing the scales and all those technical assumptions that the law will be in place. Of course, they will pay even more indirectly and end-user in a different way. They will pay through the budget, because here in the bill it is also defined that the government can further allocate some budget money to the privileged producer. I'm also surprised at the urgent reading of how this provision can pass when I'm the proposing that you need extra money, and we all know that the source in the state budget doesn't exist. So, only these few elements that were numbered certainly confirm that this law was not ready for emergency procedure. Also interesting are the claims made here by the applicant, which says that one of the reasons for amending the law is the administrative determination of price changes and that this should now be done based on changes in gas and lubricating prices, probably other energy products used in heat production. However, the possibility of harmonisation existed now with the manufacturer and this particular element has been neglected in order to partially and protect what is called the standard of citizens, and it will likely have to be so in the future. So one balance between the entry prices and, of course, the ultimate price. Here we put one form of monopoly on the market, here in any case we can talk to automation about a higher price. Because in the price, we're going to calculate the recovery of the existing one, and in the price, we're going to calculate the need to build a distribution system. But there will also be equipment in the price that will be needed to measure household consumption. So one wide area is covered, but in the wrong way. I have no feeling that this is too consistent with the European Union directives and probably until the second reading should fix it, and equally with any other law when stamped, then at least it should be fenced from some legal provisions or at least some articles in individual articles. This provision is interesting in Article 7 of this Article, which states: "The parameters set out in the paragraph of this Article shall be the sources of financial support for energy facilities favoured by the heat producer, as determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia." And that's what makes this transfer from the state budget that I'm stressing again, in the state budget, there's no money for it. Interestingly, the chapter of Article 26 does not appear to be particularly highlighted, where we are talking about a privileged buyer and here it is also defined as being a privileged customer, which must have consumption but also we are also talking about how we can keep that category of privileged buyer. However, in paragraph 3 we again say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may change the categories of customers and prescribe the reduction of the parameters referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. So the government can do something beyond the law, I believe it's a completely unusual solution. I would not want to attach myself to Europe but to more groundbreaking things here, at least that in Parliament I would not allow it, not to our government, nor to anyone to intervene in laws that are completely unnecessary. And also, it's pretty much an area of Article 26 that's undefined when it's said that a privileged buyer can lose his position unless he spends that amount of energy he's given that category. We all know that there are disturbances in the business of an individual economic operator, there are disorders in the immediate environment, there are also global disorders. Well, you should probably have that reserve in order to protect those who have come into that bad position at the moment, not to lose their status and not to have to go back into the new procedure. Here is a message actually for other sectors because we are talking about heat energy today, but it is equally true in the delivery of oil derivatives, where large consumers do not have the necessary use. Equally, we can say for thermal energy where large consumers who even spend much more than local distributors cannot get any rebate or even postpone payments. Here, these are messages that would probably have a good impact on the economy and I hope that in the second reading, we will remove all these dilemmas and make one better version of the law that the HSS will support in that case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19948	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representative of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The government tried the proposal for this law on the production of distribution and supply of thermal energy, so to move forward with the Final Bill without even having a public debate on this important and important law which ultimately decides on the standard and citizens affected by the whole economy, and which also raises a fundamental question as to how much its good provisions can be implemented in the first place because of its ineffectiveness. Practically and practically the absence of a developed market. In which, then, if this last thing I'm talking about had been fulfilled, there would not have been so many solutions, or suggestions in this law. Thus, however, the government failed in that intention, so the public will have knowledge and say something about it. The government was still acting as a position ahead of the elections, but after that it continued constantly with promises to allow citizens to live a better life, to grow standards. Today, it believes you in the polls, only 11% of the citizens. The constant rise in prices as well as oil processing is chain-induced by price shock. 40% of citizens in one survey published in one media is in serious fear that this autumn will no longer be able to meet even the basic needs. The government could certainly have influenced prices because it still has ownership in monopoly companies, either in the INA or perhaps in a very specific way in the INA to determine a profit margin, to prevent HEP from raising prices, to act through tax and budgetary policies. But she doesn't do it but offers a bill like this which, fortunately, indeed, is here, and I think it's commendable to all MPs, regardless of which political options, that they didn't allow this sort of thing to go into the final proposal. It is good that the market works, and in such a situation, then it is certain that neither producers nor distributors could have a monopoly position. And then it's logical that in such a situation, that it all works, then it's logical and the provision of Article 4 where and then the prices are regulated by market relations. But just because all of this isn't met, we're going to have a situation really like this, some of the MPs here said that, in fact, their position is going to be monopolistic, and that it's going to mean just hitting the citizens' standard because it's going to give them prices, free prices on the market. And that's the biggest problem. And today these prices are high, we can imagine this by the government's idea of what a blow to the standard of citizens, which would mean for business entities, basically the whole economy. However, here with this proposal, the Government is exhausting itself in 16 full pages of compliance with many international agreements, etc., on compliance with the standards of the European Union, which is not true, but this law is not in line with either itself or with other laws we even call upon and which are not yet adopted or sublegal acts. There's also a lot of illogicality, and it's actually really written in a hurry. In the assessment of the situation and in the assessment and sources of the necessary means for the implementation of the Law, already fellow MPs have pointed to this, according to the Legislative Committee, where the Proposer says that certain means should be provided, so it is not known how much these funds are for one period of one year in order to be a million and 250 thousand kunas, that it is even necessary to stress, this is a curiosum, that part of the costs for the implementation of the Law will be covered with professional assistance provided by the World Bank and the European Union in the area of warmth, but certainly it will be necessary to provide funding for the adoption of sublegisl acts. Why am I saying this, because the government often says that it will end up intransparently showing and spending state money and the budget itself, but you see in the very proposal of the Law it is quite confusing and it is certain that certain resources are needed, then you need to tell the truth, there are situations that it is not too exact to determine, but certainly stand behind one amount and see where these sources are. This would then mean both the seriousness and the enforceability of those good norms that there is no doubt in this Law but the greatest danger of this bill if the Proposer now has no time to consider and that is the blow to citizens' standards. Also, here is the general debate now, but perhaps we should make it easier for the proposing himself to make it easier for the law to be inconsistencies and inconsistencies, perhaps at this point it is necessary to warn. Article 13 and Article 14 where the concession is concerned, that the concession is given after a public tender which is held, it is then strictly stated in point 16 as to what the concession must contain. The following article, however, says that the concession decision will determine a concessionary whose offer is based on his business reputation, assessment of his ability, etc., a single rubber norm until the most important is stated and these are the conditions of satisfaction, the conditions in the concession. Therefore, they are partly mentioned in paragraph 2 but as something unfortunate and not as something primary which could then be the basis of the decision to grant a concession, so who, to the greatest and best extent, has offered these conditions as set out in Article 13(2). Similarly, in Article 26, where exactly who can acquire the status of a privileged buyer can be said in the next paragraph that the Government can then alter the parameters that would then determine that privileged buyer, and then the question of why the law regulates such parameters if the Government can change these parameters at all times. It is therefore unnecessary to burden both the legislator and the promoter, or the government with the same jobs. After all, whenever we have such a situation, there is often intransparency, or not, in any case, not one good regulation. So, it is fortunate, however, that this proposal of the law does not go according to an urgent procedure, that the motioner must think carefully about what I am pointing to, and what many parliamentary deputies have pointed out before me in their debate before me, because already from many moves and this would be devastating, it is clear that you will not be able to fulfill the election promises of increasing living standards, but this is one legislative proposal and an attempt to lower the standard of living of citizens, that is what is not good and that is what is sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19950	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19951	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Obviously, despite such a long and slightly naive name, it is a law that will have a direct impact on a large number of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, on their home budget and let us not be fooled, by crossing a municipal activity in the quasi-market sphere, because it is not about the market of obvious monopolies, at least at this point, the market may appear, for some time now, it is not, it is about the quasi market. The price of heating in cities, the price paid by that population that has no other option, there's no way to go into the woods, cut... wood to bring them home and warm up their apartment. The price of heating for these citizens will rise so that their home budgets will be insufficient for their daily survival. Namely, the heat situation in cities where certain districts are heating up from a central source I know the situation in Karlovac, I suppose it is different in both Slavonski Brod and other cities where such heating exists, is on the one hand the heat is at a great loss, which is covered by municipal budgets, city budgets and other sources, on the other hand the network and the complete technological infrastructure are in such a state that they can break down at any moment and the director of heat in the City Council of Karlovac complains about each session and pays for this topic. The time when this heat becomes a company that operates exclusively on market principles in the price of heating that will be paid by citizens of these cities will include the reconstruction of the network, and the purchase of new boilers that are necessary and I know which jobs will all result in a multiple price compared to the current one. Before such a slightly powerless text came into debate here, it should be considered that in a large number of cities there is a pretty percentage of 20, and even 30 percent of those who do not pay, people who simply do not pay for the heating. Warms make it sad, don't complain, things get old, and then it's compensated from obviously other sources, from the price of those who pay, from the sources of local administration budgets and self-government. How the distributor will be placed in a situation where a measuring device is installed in one building of hundreds of residents who consume a certain amount of energy and in which 20 residents do not pay for that energy. They'll charge everyone else. I wonder if such a law as it was proposed without any social brakes voted in this House if the heating will not turn into a privilege this winter. Won't some neighborhoods, some houses just be in a situation that I can't afford. The law also has a strangely regulated situation when some of the users want to break the contract. In order to terminate the contract, it is necessary to obtain written permission from an energy entity, i.e. The heat, I assume, is the distributor that delivers him, which delivers him the heat. I understand that it can't be done by one apartment in the house, it's for technical reasons quite clear. But what if the whole house wants to move to another distributor, another heat supplier? Does he have to get a license from this first one? What kind of market is that, then? I think that, if Agent Kovacevic had already said, there is a obligation in the law that in all the units they use, housing units that use thermal energy are installed by heaters within two years at the expense of the supplier, so heat. How is this going to be done on the delivery account? So clearly, they increase the price and install the measuring devices in the heating price. This will happen not only with measuring devices, but with everything else that the company needs to do. Finally, where the company operating on market principles will withdraw money for its current maintenance without talking about investment maintenance, if not from the end-user. The law speaks of privileged consumers, privileged consumers to expect good principles of market business that privileged consumers will be large consumers, those who spend a large amount will receive a unit of energy at a lower price. Therefore, the full and real price will be paid by end-users, citizens of the Republic of Croatia those living in cities, those who have no other choice. In global terms, it seems to me that this law is unprepared in terms of seeing all the consequences it brings. I'm not ready to raise my hand for him until there are social mechanisms in him or around him that will prevent what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19952	Thank you very much. Ten minutes of discussion, Mr. Zavodnik Zvonimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19953	Thank you, Your Honor. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think anyone here has any doubt that this law should be passed. It needs to be adopted for a whole series of reasons, one is, or one of the reasons is to coordinate with the European Union, the other is because we have amended the Law on the municipal economy, where we have extracted heat from municipal affairs, so they are no longer municipal business. And certainly there's a whole series of other reasons. But the question arises when, therefore, you have to do something about how to do it and to be in the interest of those we represent here, so in the interest of the citizens. So when we look at it that way and then we read this law, then I get the impression that this law is written for new energy entities and that the law is written for new buildings, so what will only be built in the future or what has been built in such a way that all these standards that this law prescribes are already built in. Unfortunately, we, or those who wrote the law, did not see the situation in Croatia, and in particular did not see the situation where it is the most difficult, so where energy systems and heat systems are in the worst condition, where heat is in poor condition, where the heat lines are in poor condition, where the old buildings are, where it is impossible where common waters are, where there is no possibility of installing measuring instruments, where you have two verticals per apartment. So a whole series of obstacles created in the realisation of this law. This is not seen, and it is quite certain that citizens will have to pay you the highest price right now, the highest price when this law comes into force. Because, frankly and openly, this law will have a direct impact on raising the significant price of thermal energy in citizens, in all cities where heat is delivered. And there should be no doubt about who's going to pay for everything that's been said to have not been amortised, that the plants have not been modernised, that they haven't been maintained by these plants and the heat lines. All will be paid by end-users at a time when they buy heat in the future. No one else will do it on their behalf. He would not agree with counterpart Cosic, who said in his debate that it was not good that units of local self-government determined the price of thermal energy, because it turns out that there, citizens wanted to pay a higher price of heat from which to modernise the plants, but the bad city eyes simply did not give it to them because they did not want to raise the price of that heat energy. No, local self-government is socially sensitive and it has seen that citizens cannot pay the economic price of thermal energy in such a way that we have such plants and such heat pipelines that would always be new, always renewed, and where they would be singled out, depreciated and renewed, restarted these plants. It's because we now have this state of these facilities, but I'm asking you what's up with schools, so there's no amortization in schools, so there's no depreciation or boiler room in schools. And here we are now saying, well, the local self-government didn't let it stand out for, in warm energy. Well, there's no amortization or health care. That's why we have hospitals like this. Nowhere in the public sector has depreciation been singled out, let alone invested or reinvested in the maintenance of these facilities, or that new investments, new investments, could then finally be made. Therefore, this law will have direct negative consequences for the citizens of Croatia and will collect the price of heat. Therefore, it would be reasonable, and it is good that the Parliament has taken down the emergency mark, so it goes into two readings, that until the second reading, the Government develops a whole series of social measures, at least in the transitional period, which cannot be shorter than 5 years, how can citizens come to accept such a price as will be defined by this law, i.e. when the supply of heat becomes a market activity. In addition to that, these principled remarks and those concerns, I know specifically because we in town have called twice a concession, a concession competition. No one answered our first concession, so the question is, what happens if no one answers? That's one question. And on the second concession, we have a concessionaire who offers us that the price of thermal energy rises between 16% and 120%, in order to renovate, so as to replace the hot water line, to replace roof boilers to create regulatory stations, etc., etc. The average price of heat should therefore be raised in Koprivnica by about 50% to come, and of course that would not be the current investment, so citizens would not feel it immediately, but would immediately start to pay, but the investment cycle would be in the next 5 years. So these are the questions that need to be discussed. I think that the government must develop social measures to make Croatia's citizens adapt to this law, that is how this law really does not, as a colleague said, become a luxury, so that heating does not become a luxury, because citizens will not be in a situation like with electricity, with gasoline, with gas, that they say I will not use it. They will have to pay heat because the concessionary will simply deliver the heat to him, will not have the opportunity to close the valve and say in my apartment the heat does not go, at least not for the first two years until such measuring devices are installed. So it's something where the government has a responsibility to come up with a whole series of social measures. Only two more perhaps concrete remarks. First, an observation with privileged consumers where they are said to be able to choose the energy entity to deliver to him. I think it's illogical, because someone in Sisak can choose to deliver someone from Koprivnica, it's technically inconclusive, it's even inexhaustible technically to an area of one unit of local self-government, because simply the heat has to go through the heat line, and the heat line has to be built, there are some rational distances at which it's worth carrying. But on the other hand, it would be good for this law to result in cities being dug up again because new kilometers of hot water will be built. So here we create one situation that the government decides to give consent to energy entities, and local self-government has other responsibilities, local self-government has the responsibility to ensure that citizens have a supply of heat energy. And offices and state administrations issue building permits. Once again, we have brought local self-government into an awkward situation, and this provision is indeed about the fact that privileged consumers can choose from whom they buy from, I don't think it stands, because it's not about something where the infrastructure is fully built. In the end, I just want to warn you about the timing. That what is the case today is that we are discussing this law in the final version and that it is thus published and enters into force. 10. within 6 months of the unit of local self-government should adopt to comply with this law, that would be 1.3. At that time, the representative bodies of the local self-government units are expected to be disbanded because the elections are going, and then there will be a pre-election campaign, and then there will be council building, so they will be there at the end of the 6th month, so that, de facto, the first job they have to do is the new representative bodies to be the call for concessions. In this case, the concession holder may receive a concession in 1.10 and then ask the question, how will he prepare the heating season if he receives a concession of 1.10? So I ask the Proposer to seriously consider the timing in which it should be done. and I suggest that it be determined that the timing for entry is, therefore, for the adoption and award of concessions is 31.12. In 2005, for that to be enough time, so some things to be done. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in the election year for local self-government simply units of local self-government will not be able to comply with the acts, will not be able to conduct the tender. And I'm going back to the experience that I have in particular, it took a potential concessionaire more than three months to record the current state of the city, so he can make a quality offer. So I appeal to extend this by at least one more year of entry into force of this law with the adoption of a whole series of social measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19954	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Mato Arlović. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Good to see you, too. And Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19955	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I also support this bill in my first reading. and I agree that it is thermal energy that should have elements of the competition and that this is something that is necessary in Croatia in the next few years of compliance with European directives. I estimate that for today's debate we lack an assessment of the situation in Croatia. Because on the basis of the assessment of the situation in Croatia in this activity, I think that we would then, as representatives, be far more concerned with the transitional periods and activities that should be provided through the transitional period. For the reason that this proposal for a law is insufficient, that transitional period has been touched at all, and I would say defined in order to avoid certain negative effects or effects that this law will have. We need to know that in Croatia, the issue and the production of heat energy and the distribution of heat is very different. And we also need to know that this activity is also exposed to significant competition, if we are thinking about heating up electricity, heating up wood, heating heavily on gas. Therefore, the activity that we would leave to the market, and already there is, quite now, I would say acceptable competition market through other types of energy, means the problem not only for the price and for the population, means the problem for the employees of that activity as well. It is evident that by applying this law, citizens will mostly give up using this kind of heat. Most of it. That's what we have to give them the right to choose some other kind of heat that they can get from other energy sources. And for the reason that the production of thermal energy in Croatia is far more expensive than it is charged by consumers. The price difference is also different from the city to the city. And it's not comparable. And that's why I think we should have that analysis so that we can estimate how much a market match in the production of thermal energy distribution will mean raising the cost of living to individual citizens in certain cities. And they would also give them the right to reorient to another energy source. The specific problems that will be caused by the application of this law are outdated and production technology, as well as the distribution of heat energy. Insufficient investment of funds in a number of years back, for the reason that prices were not provided for n and the need to armatise, nor... production itself, means that there will be a need for any significant additional funds to invest in the reconstruction of the facility and in the restoration of the distribution network. But also evident that this will mean an increase in prices for the supply of heat. In order for us as parliamentary representatives to be able to assess the current situation, we can be aware of how important this harmonisation of the law with European directives will bring difficulties to both workers and employees in these activities, how much they will bring problems to citizens, then it is very important in the second reading of the law to define transitional periods and define all possible procedures that will solve the problem both citizens and employees. I therefore propose that the proposer make up an analysis of the situation in Croatia and the energy producers as well as the state of distribution networks and that, by analysing this situation, try in public debate especially with the units of local self-government and the team now whether to try to define transitional periods for the communal societies or companies. Transition periods so as not to fail the activity, transitional periods to ensure jobs and also tolerable prices for Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19956	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote will take place when the conditions are met on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19957	Ten. Proposal for a law on production, distribution and heat supply. That's what went into the first reading. I give the vote the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on production, distribution and supply of heat is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 97 votes in favour and 16 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19958	We're moving to agenda 12. 12. Proposal for a law amending the Family Law, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 143 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When we set up the agenda, we accepted the urgency of the procedure. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! The family law of 14 July 2003 and its Article 377 provides for the provisions of Articles 44 to 50, Articles 99, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 112, 113, 116 and 117 to remain in force for another six months because of the preparation of the courts for the treatment of family matters transferred from the jurisdiction of the social care centre to courts and the application was due to take place on 22 January 2004. However, since the courts did not carry out the necessary preparatory actions to take these transactions through the January 2004 amendments, the application of those provisions was postponed until 30 September 2004. Meanwhile, on 17 June 2004, the Ministry of Justice asked for a second delay in the application of the above mentioned provisions of the Family Law, as due to overloading by a large number of cases, there was no court preparation for timely taking over and handling in family matters from the current jurisdiction of the social care centre, which, due to its sensitivity, requires the full involvement of the judge and respect for strict very short deadlines. The Ministry of Justice also cites as the reasons for the postponement as well the insufficient number of specialised judges and therefore the need to carry out the procedure for the appointment of new judges which, in accordance with the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council, takes several months. Furthermore, it also states the need to hire a number of judicial advisers, expert associates and other officials involved in the resolution of these cases. Due to the Court's unpreparedness, it is expected that the application of the current Article of Law 367 would lead to major difficulties in the effective protection of citizens' rights, especially of children whose rights are decided. For these reasons, it is proposed to amend the law by extending the deadline until 31 December 2005 and during that time the courts would take all the necessary actions to take over these transactions. The implementation of this law does not require additional financial resources and it is understandable that the date of takeover should be 30 September of this year. The urgency of the procedure because today is the 14th and unless the amendments to this law are adopted, there could be a very unwanted situation, especially since it is most often children's rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19960	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They do. On behalf of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, Ms. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19961	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. In accordance with Article 77 of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament held on 14 September 2004 at the 11th session. The opening statement was given by representatives of the proposings who stressed the necessity of adopting the proposed law by respecting Croatia's position in the European Union, the practice of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice and Article 6. Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 5 of Protocol No 7 to the Convention as well as a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of which the Family Law was adopted on 14 July 2003 and entered into force on 22 July 2003 and entered into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal of the European Union. 116/03. The provisions of Articles 44 to 50, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 105, 106, 112, 113, 116 and 117 shall remain in force for six months. The suspension before those provisions was carried out with the aim of preparing the courts for handling in family matters which were transferred from the jurisdiction of the social care centre to courts with the beginning of application on 22 January 2004. However, since the courts did not carry out the necessary actions to take these jobs, the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, which was published on 9 February 2004, came into force on the day of its publication in the National No. 17/04. and delaying the application of those provisions until 30 September 2004. In view of the non-preparation of courts on the taking over of transactions under the provisions of that law within that time limit as well as the fact that the application of the current Article 367. Family law has led to great difficulties in effective protection of citizens' rights, especially children whose rights are decided by proposed amendments to the law allow courts to carry out all preparations and projects for quality management in family matters with a deadline of 31 December 2005 and to continue to retain the responsibility of the social care centre to ensure continuity in protecting citizens' rights until 31 December 2005. After the hearing, all committee members were involved in the debate, noting that Croatia as a candidate for entry into the European Union is necessary to bring all laws, regulations and case-laws into line with the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area. On the basis of the debate held, the Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament adopt the proposed law by emergency procedure and proposes to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of a Law amending the Family Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19962	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, Mrs. Gordana Sobol, President of the Obera.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19963	Mr. Vice President, representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament at its 10th session held on 14 September discussed the Proposal for a Law amending the Family Law with the Final Proposal of the Law as an interested working body. The proposal to conduct a joint discussion on this legislative proposal and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration has been adopted. In the opening presentation of the proposal, it was pointed out that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing this Act proposed extending the deadlines, i.e. delaying the application of the provisions of the Family Law until 31 December 2005. Because courts are not ready to take over and handle family legal matters that have been in charge of the welfare center so far. The debate supports the need to extend the deadlines by noting the provisions of Articles 44 to 55 and Article 99, as further stated in the proposal to amend the family law for the period until 31 December 2005 in order to allow the Ministry of Justice sufficient time to prepare courts and educate specialised judges to handle family legal cases. The chairman of the Gordana Sobol Committee is in accordance with Article 51. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament delivered a separate opinion that will negatively reflect the position and rights of the child by 31 December 2005. It noted that the practice of European Union countries in resolving family legal cases is in the jurisdiction of courts and not of administrative authorities, and should therefore be accelerated. In addition, the Committee on Gender Equality on 25 May this year held a thematic session on improving the social legal protection of children. A number of experts were present at the meeting who highlighted the necessity of establishing family courts and the proactive role of the welfare centre. It has been pointed out that the current system is ineffective although there are legal frameworks for the handling of competent authorities. In connection with the current insufficient use of the legal option of the Family Law by the Centre and the chronic slowness and unpreparedness of courts for the takeover and spotting of family legal matters, part of the members of the Committee considers that the proposed amendments to this Act will lead to adverse consequences in the protection of all those rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority vote of 6 for and 4 against, to pass the Law amending the Family Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19964	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else on the board? There isn't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19965	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President, in January 2003, the proposal was then proposed by the Minister of Labour and Social Care, on behalf of the Government and for the adoption of the new Family Law, I quote: "The news of the law is that measures to protect the rights and well-being of the child from the authority of the Centre for Social Care are transferred to the jurisdiction of the courts. The decision that a child’s parents will live with always comes to court. This is a paper fully in line with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms under which all the procedures which are to be decided on civil rights in the administrative procedure are at stake. So, family matters that were in the jurisdiction of the welfare center.". It's a finished quote. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also made a decision on 8 November 2000 confirming that the administrative bodies do not normally comply with the requirement of independence of the bodies which decide on civil law or obligations under the established practice of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice. During the second reading and adoption of the Family Law in July, it was reiterated last month that a significant newspaper of the new Family Law is the setting of deadlines of 60 days in which the court is obliged to carry out proceedings in cases where jurisdiction is transferred from the welfare centre to court. The proposed deadlines shall correspond to the time limits of the administrative procedure in which the Centre for Social Care is acting. Thus, it will ensure that settlement in the case is not delayed, thus achieving better, faster, better quality, social legal protection primarily of children. Already at that time, when the new Family Law was passed, it was decided to be part of the provisions which are still under discussion by January of this year because it was then estimated to be a reasonable time limit for the preparation of courts or for the transfer of jurisdiction from the welfare centre to courts. However, in January of this year, we are meeting with new, urgent amendments to the law which allowed me to quote, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor, explaining then the amendments to the Family Law in this form in which we are discussing today, I quote: "In agreement with the Ministry of Justice, I believe that all these necessary preparations and actions will be carried out. The government thinks it would be bad if this deadline that we are now extending went on a few more times.". I recall that it was January 30th of this year, we then extended that deadline again to September 30th of this year by stating that we were also as a club and were then pointing to the harmfulness of the prolonging but then it was actually pointing to the last government because the past government was guilty that there it was, not all prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law and that in January the courts took it over. Today, September 15, 2004, we are again facing urgent changes and additions to the same provisions of the Family Law. And I'm asking who we should point our finger at today, colleague and colleague. This is how we rediscover and prolong the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision. We are in Croatia, of course we in Croatia liked it or not we are obliged to transfer this part of civil legal proceedings to courts and actively show that when it comes to the protection of children and children's rights that we are not strong only in words. On behalf of the Club, I am responsible for saying that today we are before the prolonging of these provisions only because someone in this State and for the past 8 months has not done a job paid for by taxpayers' money, or all citizens. Furthermore, we do not accept as the Club the argument set out in the proposal to amend the family law by which the Ministry of Justice states as the reasons for the postponement, as it did today, shortly before the proposal representative, the insufficient number of specialised judges, the need to carry out the procedure for the appointment of new judges, it takes several months, and the need to employ a number of judicial advisers, professional associates and other co-workers involved in the resolution of these cases. And if that were the case, it probably is, but it's been a year and so many days since the adoption of the Family Law and, by the SDP Club's assessment, it could all have been done together. And when we talk about experts, advisors, staff who have been dealing with this problem so far, we point out again that at social care centres, they all work and act and, of course, we have repeatedly pointed out that they are the very significant inevitable part in all procedures. But someone in this country was supposed to connect it all together into one whole and start working. It is now shown after 8 months that there is still some confusion, that the ball of responsibility for something that has not been done within the deadline from the ministry to the ministry, and then we are witnessing that at one of the meetings of the Committee of Representatives, in this case, the Family Ministry is actually surprised why they are present here as promoters when this is actually a matter of the Ministry of Justice. I'm talking, it's about family law, it's about a law that is within the domain of the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity, and it's about a law that is directly within the domain of the Minister of the Ministry, or Vice-President of the Government, who is responsible for coordinating all these resolutions. Once again, on behalf of the Club, we now point our finger at this government who has done nothing in the last 8 months to fully implement the Family Law and as a club, we express our dissatisfaction and, of course, we will vote against the amendments and addition of the Family Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19966	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on. Miroslav Rozic, Club of HSP. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19967	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Indeed, this proposal for a law that acts rather naively with itself, with only a shrewd explanation and one article would say that this question is almost procedure. However, this proposal for a law is, for the second time, delayed by the provision of Article 367. Family law, and the application of this provision wanted to ensure better quality of handling in family matters and more effective protection of citizens, especially children. The Family Law, as already said, came into force in July 2003. The application was to start with transitional and final provisions in January of this year, but in January of this year we had already delayed or requested a delay and we had already delayed it once. Now for the second time, a delay in this application is required. The obligation of which we are actually talking came from the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and in November 2000, the Constitutional Court confirmed that administrative bodies do not satisfy or satisfy the requirements on the independence of bodies deciding on civil law. So for almost four years now, there has been a decision or finding of the Constitutional Court that these institutions that do these jobs actually do not meet, comply with the requirements of independence and should not do the job. The need for a change of jurisdiction in the handling of certain family matters was well known to experts before 2000, so before the Constitutional Court decided, they often pointed out the need to establish, above all, special family courts or special departments for family cases in courts. So for more than 5 years no matter what government has ruled and in what composition, more than 5 years it is known that normative, material and personnel measures are to be taken in order to change jurisdiction and also over 5 years nothing has happened. From the explanation of this bill, or this delay, it is undeniable to seek a new extension until 31 December 2005, so for more than a year, almost a year and a half. And what is interesting in the assessment of the state of the proposal of this law are the reasons for these delays, and these are the reasons not for this ministry to propose this amendment but are the reasons for the delay of the Ministry of Justice. The Justice Department, of course, has no reason at all. In the explanation of this Ministry and the request for this delay, I quote: “The courts are not ready to implement the provisions of the articles” and the articles are now listed. That's an explanation. The courts are not ready for implementation. And so for almost two years. Or another year. And the assessment of the situation lists the reasons of the Ministry of Justice. Overloading of courts with a large number of cases, insufficient number of specialised judges, long-term court appointment proceedings resulting from the provisions of the Law on Courts and the Law on the State Judicial Council, the need to hire new accompanying services such as judicial advisers, professional associates, other officials and so on. So it's not all done. The reason is therefore the unpreparedness of the courts and the Ministry of Justice to ensure the application of this Article. That is, the awkwardness of both the former and the current authorities to carry out their imperative obligations aimed at real matters of protecting families and children. What's interesting, ladies and gentlemen, is that on the other hand, they had no problem in hyperinflation of body formation, employment, appointment of officials, officials, tenants, or providing funds for several bodies that are only nominally concerned with the protection of families and children. This primarily refers to the family administration of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, which is the former State Institute for the Protection of Family, Motherhood and Youth who has done nothing but is attached only to the said Ministry and without any professional shifts. This applies, then, to the Ministry of Justice, first and foremost, to the appointment of counsellors for children and their deputies, so on and so on. The lawyers for gender equality and his deputies who have also entered the Law on State officials, so they are officials and all of the accompanying professional services, as well as dozens of offices, councils, commissions and similar “ad hoc” government bodies. I'll just tell you here when it comes to that it's the Office of Human Rights, the Council of Children, the Committee for Children with Disabilities in Behavior and so on, and so on and so on. The existence of such bodies does not have a standstill either in the existing conceptual system of state administration and state authorities because all jobs, they are specific in nature already being carried out by some other bodies. They have no excuse for any real or formal reasons, such as international obligations, such as this guideline for the reason for the existence of a child counsel. These bodies do not carry out any concrete administrative or professional procedure but perform jobs, under alleged signs, which are actually carried out by all other bodies, existing bodies of the state administration, which are the departments responsible for health, social care, education, public institutions, HZZO, welfare centres, agencies, associations and the like. Among the many absurdities, it is interesting that the Ombudsman and her deputies have far higher salaries than the judges of municipal courts, although their affairs are symbolic of nature and professionally minor compared to the affairs of judges of municipal courts. In short, there are attorneys and officials for children and gender equality, but there is no court. There's no court. But we've got the D.A., we've got the officials, we've got the employees, we've got everything else. The state budget for the work of these bodies is estimated at more than 20 million kunas each year, namely 22 million and 313 thousand 390 kuna, for the protection of families, motherhood and youth, etc. State Department. A former state office. That's for a lawyer for gender equality and counsellors for children. It's mostly money for their salaries. Those 20 million kunas that stand out would be quite enough to implement all the activities we really need to carry out, not only because of international obligations, but also because of the real improvement of the system of protected families and its members. Insufficient knowledge of these bodies that I speak of of how sensitive the public to their human name and the daily political, propaganda echo must not be the basis for the existence of non-sustainable bodies and the absence of the necessary bodies. Of course, those who are involved in protecting families and their members. Dealing with the activities of an analytical nature of organising professional counselling, publishing publications, media activity for the protection of families and children, of course, requires jobs. But there should be no specific bodies to carry out these activities, while at the same time we do not have established bodies that specifically and directly resolve the rights of family members and its members. This existence of unnecessary and lack of necessary bodies is becoming a bit of a common denominator of state authorities. Of course, it's not just this government, but it does little or nothing to change that. In a specific case, he's asking for a continuance. It puts off a problem that's obvious. There is therefore this existence of unnecessary and the lack of necessary bodies exists in other areas as well. These Republic of Croatia will have to deal very quickly with serious problems unless real and systematic measures are taken on the reform of state authorities, which would focus on the compatibility of the system with European and world civil society tenants. I would like to point out once again that the obligations set out in this article that are being postponed have actually come from the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The absurdity of our government systems is enormous. This delay means between each other and the next. The family’s water procedures are being addressed and handled by the employees of the Social Care Centre, which are mainly not graduates with a legal exam. So either they're doing jobs they're not up to, or they're being paid for their jobs. Often big words about the international and European commitments of the Republic of Croatia are mainly related to the construction of a system that enables the fertilisation of foreign capital and the imposition of obligations on citizens. But these international and European commitments are not only required by the Republic of Croatia but also require the provision of certain social and legal standards. This government would have to prove that it is not only ready to protect its interests, or foreign capital interests, but on this first case that is coming it should show that there are also positive abscesses of European standers. The ruling coalition, however, shows that it is unable to carry out jobs when it comes to the rights of citizens who come from international and European commitments undertaken. But unlike that, they're always able to react resiliently when it comes to obligations and restrictions, some that are often and pointless, for example, these 0 prominences. That they impose on citizens. Then this system of government is both quick and effective. It shall immediately form all those bodies necessary to implement such decisions. The final club of the Croatian parties will not support another delay in the application of Article 367 of the family law, as it does not wish to be included in the fact that the money of the bodies in this country, or those who are not in charge of this, and by decision of the Constitutional Court do not provide the basic conditions for them to do the work they are doing, for another year and a half days continue to do so. The funds had to be found to secure the courts, if the funds were found to form defences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19968	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, a colleague of Tomljanovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19969	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, here I would like to correct the false allegation of a distinguished colleague, Rožić, who has been told that workers in welfare centres are doing jobs that are not up to the point of thinking about jobs exactly and the problem that has been dealt with by family law. That's not true. According to the systematisation of the social care centre, lawyers are also employed there with a passed judicial examination that professionally and competently manages these matters under their jurisdiction. The problem here is quite another nature, in the mass of what I would say, of course, I would agree, and I would just say what would happen if we didn't pass this law today. Or what will happen after the deadline of 1st and the same year 2004 compared to this population we're talking about. Which we should protect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19970	A fellow representative, the question is not a correction to an incorrect assumption. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Rožić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19971	Madam Vice President, my colleague has corrected something I haven't said. I didn't say that at all. I can tell him exactly or quote again what I said. I said either, or. Either they're doing a job they're not qualified for or they're being paid for it. And I repeat that one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19972	Thank you very much. A colleague, Tomljanović, is this a correction to an incorrect quote, or a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Make up your mind or one or the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19973	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure in the sense that no article of the Rules of Procedure has been mentioned. But let's let it go now, we can, I think I've correctly quoted what the dear colleague said. He said it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19974	I'm sorry, didn't you say so?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19975	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19976	It would have been good if you had said the article you were calling for to begin with, since you had already warned your colleague Rosic about it. But it looks like we're tired and we're stalking after a long break, so it'll be better. Can we get on with the debate now? We can. Thank you very much. My colleague Ivanka Roksandić on behalf of the HDZA Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19977	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the beginning, I must point out that the Croatian Democratic Community's club will support the adoption of this Law for the reasons set out in the reasons given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By bringing amendments to and supplementing the family law, which was published on 9 February 2004 and under which the treatment under family matters in the jurisdiction of the social care centre was transferred to courts with a delay in application until 30 September 2004 was the first delay. So in July, we postponed again, and now we have a second delay in this proposal to postpone the application of family law but after receiving a proposal to postpone the application of the Family Law, which the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, Mrs Jadranki Kosor sent herself to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Škare-Ozbolt, which states that it draws attention to the fact that in municipal courts there are insufficient numbers of specialised judges who will handle these cases and take all other measures to take cases in due time from the jurisdiction of the welfare centre. Since a number of judges and a number of professional associates and advisers in courts involved in solving this problem will also be needed, it is not really possible to carry out the procedure for the reception of these people and those employees in the service within a short period of time. The above proposal also states: "I therefore believe that the courts are until 30 September, which is this disputed deadline, that the courts will not be able to carry out all preparatory actions in order to transfer the cases until then in the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Care and committed to the jurisdiction of municipal, or county courts and the Ministry of Justice propose that, before all necessary preparations are carried out and until the necessary decisions on the number of judges are amended and the procedure for the appointment of new judges are implemented, that Article 367 be applied. The family law is also delayed to propose, by emergency procedure, the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, which will amend the article to mention 376 and to postpone the application of that article until 31 December 2005, which we are discussing today." Another such similar proposal came from Mr. President of the Supreme Court, Ivica Crnić, who cited the clear reasons, as he said in his text: "The courts, with the present complexity and the scope of the problems they are dealing with, do not have the possibility of taking over these jobs unless they are given adequate human and material conditions". Since it is really a serious problem that courts would take to resolve from the welfare center, and to mention only some of them, concerns children's rights and fates, such as taking care of a parent's child, such as making a decision that the parent will live with, caring for a child if the child's child dies, the right to associate with brothers, sisters, grandparents, to take away parental rights for those parents who neglect children, to make a decision to ban child from approaching or to trust a child with social care because of their misbehaving. I think that these are all too important events in one man's life, so that, especially a child, they can be dealt with inappropriately. All of these are very sensitive situations for family and child, and for this reason everyone leaves these issues to those who beg and suggest that they are not willing to accept, I really think it would be more devastating than good. So, to let family matters be resolved to institutions that are not ready at the moment, I don't think we should do it. And for the sake of everything said, the HDZ Club will support this Bill on Family Law Amendment, because it is better to postpone some deadlines and prepare well for taking over these jobs than to do something that would first harm citizens' rights, especially children.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19978	Thank you very much, colleague. Next, on behalf of the HNS Club PGS, colleague of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19979	Dear Madam President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, esteemed promoters. Allow me to add a modest contribution to this debate on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorsko-Gorski Alliance. In fact, the comments are mostly principled. Respecting the practice of the European Commission and the European Court of Justice, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the Family Law adopted last year in July and entered into force, had a delay in applying by the end of January of this year precisely with the intention and tendency to implement all necessary technical adjustments so that this law could be effectively implemented. However, there was such a situation that in February we had to make a decision that we were not yet ready to implement this law and we made one decision, no longer by delaying it for 6 months, but by postponing it for 9 months with the intention that in these new 9 months we would finally be able to adapt to the judiciary and all technical parameters and finally apply this law. But what happened is that now we're back here, in this assembly, and we're going to make a new decision to re-translate this deadline. Not now, not in six months, not in nine months, but not in less than a year and a half. The principle comment is mainly that it is irresponsible to pass laws, as well as deadlines that we are not able to implement or unprepared to adopt and in advance knowing that we do not have the opportunity to enforce these laws. It's irresponsible and it's up to us, it's irresponsible and it's something that doesn't belong to us anyway. Disrespect of deadlines continues to extend from 6 months to 9 months, now at 15 months, will certainly negatively affect quality of treatment in family casinos is the protection of social first children in the European Union, in the jurisdiction of courts. If quality were identical in administrative procedures, they would certainly not make such a decision. Therefore, we obviously believe that it is not good enough in all the institutions of social centres, and therefore we have passed that law and that change. So this is the kind of delay we're actually doing about the damages of all those who exercise their social rights through that law. And now we're finally wondering something. What I would, I believe, and you will share my opinion here, dear representatives, is that we would like to see on our benches something called a programme or a reorganisation plan at the Ministry of Justice with a particular view of the judiciary, with a detailed explanation of the number of judges, about the possibilities, the appointment and appointment of new judges, about the possibilities or normatives of solving cases, about how to solve the backlogs, how to align with the dynamics of newly arrived cases. We would like to see how we will finance it, we would like to see how some cases, in order to relieve these courts, will be dealt with in an alternative way, we would like to see finally one plan of this government on how it sees the reorganisation of the judicial system. It's something I believe you'd all be happy to see on your benches and what it would be worth talking about. But what I would ask you at this point is whether this government that has just delayed the application of this law, is whether it is held responsible for it, whether it is considered so responsible that it could possibly be said that it will resign because of it. Finally, the Croatian People's Party will not support this bill because it does not consider that it is opportunised for the work of neither the judiciary nor that it is in favour of children and those who exercise their rights through family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19980	Thank you very much, colleague. We're going to an individual debate. First, a colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19981	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. There's no secretary here today, but it's fine, I don't have any objections when our Rules of Procedure is respected, always, instead of the secretary of state, and that's no problem. However, we already know the government's practice, or members of the government, as they do. So when she's convinced herself that something is good, then she doesn't miss, then there's no more important state interest than to come to the public with any good news that's good. In this particular case, that is not the case. So, not only is the minister but the entire government obviously feels that this is not a good law, or law that carries something good. So the fact that we're discussing this at night, far from the public, speaks in favor. We know when they were passed, announcements or proposals of VAT reduction laws, almost half of the government came. When it has given up, when the bill is delayed, then it usually happens in such late evening hours away from the public. So we care about the picture it creates in public, it doesn't matter at all. So there's the government who promised and who criticised the previous government that it was slow, that the trom, that all of this was sloppy, very short and simply said that it was incompetent, that they were the ones who were going to start Croatia. But who knows what is the law that is like this: it is delayed, it is delayed. There's one or two articles, it's delayed. So not only do you not run Croatia because Croatia was launched in 2000 but you are stopping it and in this particular case, there is a major problem, especially in this particular case, it is a serious problem, because one anti-constitutional situation is persecuted and it is one of the greatest dangers of proposing anti-constitutional law. So, all those citizens need to know, we must not hide this from them, who now have no option, so in all these cases in which the centre decides, any such party may seek, or sue the Republic of Croatia to the international institution, so the European Court of Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights grants compensation to those parties on the burden of the state. So it's already been a reason to just allow absolute judicial jurisdiction over these things. That's what the Constitutional Court said, because it's too high to discuss whether the centres at this point are better teamed up and educated than any existing situation in the judiciary and available judges. That's not at all discussed. It is the Constitutional Court's decision to have this settled by the court, and the administrative court that resolved the complaints of the Social Care Centre is not a court full of jurisdiction and was the biggest problem in this. So, in urgent need of this matter, this problem should be put under judicial authority. Now that is why, because of the absolute incompetence of the government and the intention to do anything about it, the letter of President Ivica Crnić comes handsomely. Handsome comes, which says that the courts are not teamed up, that they are not materially arranged so that new tasks can be taken over and sure that the good part is right. However, gentlemen of the government, did you ask these same courts when you passed the militant Road Traffic Safety Act, which means what a burden it is for misdemeanor courts. Did you ask them? You didn't even think about it, but you expected the euphoria of the citizens to clap on you, and you got anger and anger in return, and the courts in that case no matter who asks the judiciary at all. We will also put an end to the interest law as our citizens were mostly debtors. The smaller number of our citizens was in debt, so they're comfortable with this new interest law. In most cases, more than 80% of citizens across the country were believers, and then 14 years later, because of the rule of illegal dismissal, they received high fees because it was precisely, and interest made it possible for them to do so. Did you tell those citizens they're going to have to pay it back now? You didn't tell them. Did you ask the courts then what that means? The courts, so publicly advertised in the newspaper that this means close to a million new items that will mark the breakdown of the system, because here Mr. President Ivica Crnic is already alarming the situation code, so this would mean about a thousand new items, several thousand new items and almost hundreds and hundreds of thousands of cases you are deafening, you have not said anything to that. And now it's convenient to wave just like that, because nothing was done in this respect. Of course it's not easy to solve a situation dating back to the '90s. In 97, we only have 50% of the full frame. During the former government there was an accelerated fill-up of judicial personnel. Also to enable these difficult material opportunities, better said impediment to the building even though you provide the funds that were provided during the former government, necessary resources to fill the personnel. We found ourselves in a situation that, and if you do, you don't have a simple court building. Well the biggest problem is in Zagreb, during the former government the entire complex of Selska and Ilica is secured. There is almost no expenditure in this budget, nothing is done. If it had been secured, we would have had completely renovated buildings before the end of this year where we could hire then and need a number of judges, and then eventually think about hiring new ones. Nothing in this respect was done. I'm curious about what's been done in these eight months, so maybe we'll wait. Although I say and once again I say that this anti-constitutional situation is unacceptable. Which is exactly what we're doing here. When it was called during the former government, the ministry called an ad to fill state, deputy state attorneys, and now recently the ministry said that when the State-fate council had to discuss candidates, it is your choice to withdraw the ad because no funds are provided this year. So we're going backwards. Not only is the situation being accelerated that should also be further accelerated by a better quality, therefore materially arranged, and especially by filling the staff on these issues that you see in the judiciary, everything is being attached to each other. So the bigger problem is that we put justice on the line with other laws. After all, I would like it not to be true, in the media it has recently been published, that no new executive law will be applied, and the new Executive Law means discharging the judiciary, so cases from the courts apply. So we are still burdening the courts with cases and beyond the law of the existing, rather than ensuring that the law that has already been passed is changed, that the courts are dispersed, and that they are indeed dealing with this real problem and the Constitution as a necessary problem. But nothing seems to be done in this respect. So there's no talking about increased personnel fill, the material situation is like that. Well, that's best, it's obvious from the budget itself, and now from the State Budget Implementation Report. We're talking about education. During the former government, the centre for the education of judicial officials had just been operational, and it was still formal to meet the international community and Europe in 97. The letter was dead for three years. He started working. The question now is whether education is being done. However, I can already conclude my debate a little bit. So the courts usually deal with this problem. ... In every divorce, they decide to trust their children. Of course, education is still needed in order to perfect itself especially on those issues that the court has never discussed, about adoption. On all these other issues, the court has experience, more than in some other things that we have put on the burden in the new laws, that is, in our own part, and we have not provided for previous education. So this situation you're proposing, you know it's not good. You haven't explained anything that, what are the measures, which are the ministries. Both are responsible and the government as a whole, which is being taken, the government particularly as it is called on to secure these funds. Because the ministry can't do anything unless the government has provided him with funds and should have the support of the entire government. We often point out when we talk about the judiciary as a priority, but then it has to be seen already in the budget because other things, everything else, everything is an empty tick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19982	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. A fellow representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19983	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In a number of incorrect allegations made by colleagues, I would correct the one to stop this proposal for the law of Croatia. That's incorrect, exactly the opposite. This bill allows the system to function because the courts are not ready to implement this law, and as a colleague said, a letter from Mr. Ivica Crnić is conveniently coming where he states that the courts, also in that section, cannot take over these cases. Well, I think part of the responsibility is borne by a former minister, now a colleague, who is not free of that responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19984	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19985	Mrs. Advocacy violated article 209 under the password of correcting an incorrect quote she actually distorts my exact quote. And Madam MPs, five hundred new state officials, judicial officials employed, seven new judicial bodies founded. Started by the Education Center and a whole series of buildings that have been restored, you're saying it's not enough, it's nothing. And I agree that maybe a little if you did, or tried to do more.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19986	Thank you very much, colleague. I hope you don't pollemize. ... Comrade Antičević, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Maria Byte. ... Please, my colleague, this is a meeting hall. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19987	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague injured Article 209. It wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it was about correcting the incorrect allegations, and the fact that our colleague is trying to teach the other MPs a lesson, I think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19988	Thank you very much. I hope we can move on with the debate. Next up is fellow MP Slaven Letica. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. Next is representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19989	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There's a lot being said here and I really think that... , slip through the maze of everything said, and say something new is difficult. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I think it is important to emphasise, or I will express my position in relation to these discussions that have been led by colleagues of SDP, HNS and HSP. So, you all said that it is extremely irresponsible by the government to postpone the application of this Law, and you know that he, or these points concerning these issues of parental care, are very sensitive and I would say that, in fact, after this letter of Mr. Crnjic, which we actually have to respect, not accepting this delay is extremely irresponsible. So, I really think it is extremely irresponsible to think that we can go into the application of this Act, if the President of the Supreme Court states and makes clear that these are very important arguments for me, i.e. evidence that we cannot transfer this very sensitive issue from the centre of social care to the courts, where the President of the Supreme Court says these issues will not be resolved. This means that the postponement of the application of this Law does not mean delaying the resolution of the problem. True God, they will not be solved in accordance with all those conventions and perhaps even with the right of a child as such, but they will be solved. If we transfer them to the courts, then we know 100% that they will not be resolved and it is extremely irresponsible to claim that the postponement of this Act is irresponsible. So, from the letter of Mr. Crnjic, which I hold even the foundation here, no matter what anyone thinks about it, he states that the courts will be buried with new thousands of objects, that, as far as I know, there are a million and a half, I don't know, unsolved cases. That we need to find new people for that time and educate them some, and re-educate, educate, etc., equip them. Then, to find space and all of this is actually something that gives the government, namely this Parliament one single right and solution, it is to respect this state and actually make a decision to postpone the application of this Law. When I mention the date of the one that it is, which is actually a "dead line" for the application of this law then I personally like this recommendation, I repeat again, Mr Crnić, who has estimated that we will not sooner establish a system that will be effective. So he said not as anyone would like but as a man estimates it will be because it is the end of next year. That's why I personally very honestly approach this problem and support, therefore, the adoption of such a law within the end of next year, because probably someone who has data knows a lot better than we do who know less about these data. That the courts will not be trained until that time. So we give the courts a chance to do whatever it takes, or the whole system, to take care of such sensitive things. In the opposite of pushing, as I would say, the makta to the finish line, or the demand that we don't now pass this law, it's the same for me as if I don't know, someone great or any other athlete you point to a decisive match, and he has, say, an immobilized leg. So, let's wait for that leg to say hello. I would conclude this speech, therefore, with, apparently, with one express support and understanding of the delay of this law. You would have concluded it with one very, very important fact. It's not enough just to postpone, and delay is necessary. It is therefore necessary to monitor, or monitor, the situation on the ground, and therefore this House should assign the Ministry if it is not much, within 3 months or every 3 months inform us of the adjustment and the adjustment problems. So let's try to get into the essence of the problem and try to solve it, and we're not talking about just talking. Let's not criticise it without actually having no results. Therefore, I propose, therefore, that this Law be postponed, and that the ministry report to this body within 3 months or 6 months of the dynamics of achieving the conditions of training, to take over this very important matter so that we all together can achieve the goal, and that if we achieve the goal, we establish a system that is capable of dealing with such sensitive problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19990	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The replica was answered by fellow Vuljanic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19991	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I don't think the fellow understood the character of these criticisms that were heard here, no one reasonable will say it could have been done within this time frame, but anyone reasonable will say that Mr. Crnić and the experts could have been asked before the Law was passed with such unsulliful deadlines. That's what the ruling party was warned about, that's why you force deadlines that are completely nebulous to then run them two, three times and explain how things have to be done. Of course they have to be made. And the fact that there will now be a legal vacuum if this law is not accepted is probably true, however, there is now a constitutional vacuum. What is happening now is the opposite of the Constitution and the opposite of the European conventions, it does not seem to concern anyone in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19992	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bagaric has the right to reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19993	Let me answer, but in a way and in accordance with how I spoke at the beginning, and in the course of my discussion, I did not say that I would defend the government or that I would attack the government of the previous one who could also do much more than she did. So I spoke with the goal of achieving results. You say the unsuspecting deadlines, and I say that these are the nebulous deadlines if this government exists and exists for eight months, according to what we're talking about, if that's eight months of the big problem, here's God, let's let this problem be solved in eight months, so let's not set that kind of thing up, set the thing in a way that we actually achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19994	Thank you very much. The next is for the debate and the last reported honourable representative, Zvonimir Mršić, is not in the hall, losing his right to speak. We no longer have a registered representative. If the Secretary of State wants to say anything at the end of the debate, let's not suggest. Would you like to say something at the end of the debate? No, I don't. Okay, I think I understand the reasons. I'm closing the debate. Just one piece of information, we'll continue at 9:30 tomorrow with point 13. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19995	Final bill amending family law. The amendments were submitted by the HSP Representatives' Club. However, as regards the first amendment, we cannot vote on it or debate it, as Article 163(3) provides that Article 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union should be amended accordingly. Rules of Procedure, I quote: “If the final draft of the law changes and complements the law, amendments can only be submitted to articles covered by the proposed amendments and amendments.” Therefore, for these business reasons, this amendment cannot be debated or voted on. Mr. Kovacevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19996	Mr. President, you have read Article 163 but have forgotten paragraph 4. which states: “Extremely from paragraph 3 of this Article, amendments may be submitted to articles of laws which do not cover the proposed amendments and additions to the laws that are necessary in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that in Croatia, the official use of the Croatian language and the Croatian letter, according to grammar, is that. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19997	And that's unfortunately not it. It's the same, not anymore. Not anymore. [[Intruder: Writes, writes.]] And it also refers to... Amendment 2 to your proposal, which states that the Legislative Committee is bound to establish and issue a consolidated text of the Family Law within 30 days. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is a matter of conclusion and this may be the conclusion that the Legislative Committee determines the consolidated text, not that it is in law. The Legislative Committee should adopt the consolidated text on the basis of the Council's conclusion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19998	I agree to this second one, that's fine. But for the first time, I ask for the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Is it true that paragraph 4 stands and is known according to the Constitution as it is in official use in Croatia. Croatian language... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u19999	Yeah, yeah. In Croatia there is an official use of Croatian language and Latin letter There's another provision, and [[/Intruder: That's right.]] The Committee on the Constitution cannot arbitration whether it is in the legal term of the Croatian language which is the content of the concept of divorce and divorce [[Intruder: Unless you say otherwise.]] Thank you very much. [[Mr. President.]] I am putting it to the vote. I can't take it anymore, no. [[You can just a little, I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20000	You got it. The Committee may arbitration whether you are correct in interpreting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20001	He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20002	Well, that's fine. How he won't be able to.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20003	He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20004	You are not above the Parliament, the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20005	He can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20006	How can he not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20007	He can't. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20008	How can he not? Now you have your interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20009	But he can't. In this case,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20010	How can he not?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20011	In this case, it's not possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20012	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-15-0.u20013	It's not possible. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who is for this final bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 15 abstentions, 20 against and 77 for the adoption of the Family Law Amendment Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. 22 against. Didn't I read that? ... 22 against. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. It is up to - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authorities of the State Administration, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 153. The Proposer of the Law is the Government. When establishing the agenda, we have established the application of an emergency procedure. The debate was conducted by committees on legislation, the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. The reports you received at the session. I would like the Secretary of State of the Central State Office for the Administration of Antun Palaric to further explain the proposal.
