ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24824	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you the proposal for a law on protection and rescue, and this is the final draft of the law since we have proposed as authors and promoters of this law an urgent procedure. This law is finally uniquely governed by this system of protection and rescue and the role and tasks of several entities who should find their place in this system of protection and rescue. Thus far, the obligations, tasks, responsibilities and powers of individual rescue participants have been regulated through several laws and individual segments of this complex system have also been components of different ministries. This law aims to introduce much more order in this area of protection and rescue, which is one of the most important areas in the Republic of Croatia and we believe that it created a good legislative framework for the work of the Protection and Rescue Authority. Namely, the Protection and Rescue Authority has already been created by amendments and additions to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and other state-run administrative organisations and is starting to take effect from 1.1 next year. The second big news is that this law also introduces a single phone number, that phone number should be the number of a single operating telecommunications centre, that is 112 which stems from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Conventions and practically 112, the single number 112 is the largest newspaper since the introduction of this number is maximumly shortened and operationalised in various disasters and accidents. So far, there has been a lot of wandering in the reporting of any physical or legal person about the danger of disasters or accidents because the system was divided and there have been frequent rerouting of these calls from one number to another. The final establishment of this number would finally end up with this somewhat anarchical situation and if a citizen were a natural or legal person to report on the existence of a disaster or a major accident to 112 later, it would simply go the fastest way to the competent authorities that have to act with this law. Similarly, this law lays down the rights and obligations of units of local self-government by the fact that the adoption of this law would not be subject to any new financial obligations for units of local self-government since it provides that the local self-government unit, primarily local self-government representative bodies, should carry out assessments of the threat and protection and rescue plans in accordance with the possible dangers in their area. Therefore, this sets out certain obligations for local self-government units, but does not establish fixed financial obligations in the way it is, for example, in the field of fire where it is prescribed that local self-government units are obliged to allocate 5% of the original budget revenues for fire jobs. This will be left to the representative and executive bodies of the local self-government units to establish seriously and responsibly the threat assessment based on their rescue plans, and then of course to assess whether it is necessary in the field of that unit of local self-government to form and specific operational forces and to determine the sources of their funding. This new Directorate for Protection and Rescue, which should function with 1.1., would practically be created through the merger of the current establishment units of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior. Some 300 employees of the Department of Protection and Rescue would have been taken over from the Ministry of the Interior, which are primarily civil protection workers, fire department staff and about 500 employees from the MARH, which are, above all, officers of the Monitoring and Notification Centre. For the start of work and the Department of Protection and Rescue, it is necessary to ensure by the calculations and evaluations made together by the MUP and MORH, 80 million kuna. These 80 million kunas are primarily necessary for material expenditure for these 800 employees who will be taken over from the MUP and the MORH. It is also necessary to provide for in the budget the means to start the establishment of this communication centre with 112 which is visible from this table in order to provide for the allocation and provision of these funds per year, since it is impossible to secure all assets in the first year. Also, since units of local self-government and the MUP have so far provided relatively modest means of equipping civil protection units, the means are also provided for to equip these civil protection units. We have also provided for too much resources because we expect that the local self-government unit will be able to predict best how much of these operational forces are needed and how much of their equipment is necessary. All in all, we expect that this law will introduce much more order in this for society an extremely important area, given the increase in threats both from terrorism and other threatening phenomena that we are increasingly exposed to and the establishment of both these administrations and the adoption of this law as well as other sublegal acts that we will have to bring about will certainly improve the efficiency and operationality of all participants in this extremely important protection and rescue activity. It was also on the committees of some questions whether they should be followed by a hasty procedure. We believe that a hasty procedure should be followed, since I have already said that this Administration for Protection and Rescue is being able to get significant funds from the pre-accession European Union funds after we have gained candidate status in these pre-accession funds. Croatia itself will not be able to provide all the necessary funds and equipment for this centre in a short time, and we think it is very important that this administration becomes operational as soon as possible so that it can report with its projects and nominations to withdraw funds from pre-accession funds. We have already prepared a series of other laws on the basis of this Law. These are before the Civil Protection Act and the new Fire Department Act. A Regulation on the internal establishment and new Protection and Rescue Administrations and other implementing rules to be adopted by either the Minister of Internal Affairs or the Director of this Protection and Rescue Authority has then been developed. Here, that's three reasons why we suggested passing the law by emergency procedure. Because we have already carried out a series of consultations and coordinations with all interested and ministries and other central government bodies. And we believe that the preconditions for this Law to be adopted in order for the practical Protection and Rescue Authority with 1.1 to have a legislative and legal framework based on which it will also be able to carry out operationally those tasks provided for it and by amending the Law on the Design and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and State Administrations, but what is far more important, what awaits us in the field of establishment and, for Croatia, extremely important activities of protection and rescue to a modern and would dare to establish a far more operational and efficient way than it has ever been. Here I have tried to give the shortest explanation of certain provisions of the Law and the very concept of this new system of protection and rescue, and through discussions of clubs and advocates we will be sure to monitor whether there may be a need for any amendments or amendments and additions to this Act. And in the final address, I will also contact you if we really see that there are legitimate objections or legitimate proposals for certain changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24825	Thank you very much. The rapporteurs of the Legislative Committee? Internal policy and national security? President of the Committee, Honored Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24826	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the 24th session on 9 November 2004 discussed the proposal for a law on protection and rescue with the Final Bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 27 October 2004. In addition to the proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. The Committee discussed the subject matter and the text of the Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 63. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent board. In his opening statement, he introduced the committee members to the reasons and interests of the Republic of Croatia for which it is proposed to adopt the law in question by emergency procedure. In the following, the proposaler's representative cited the shortcomings and weaknesses of the existing civil protection system, primarily due to the existence of competences of different state bodies during the disaster. Therefore, the proposed Law on all bodies whose regular activity is related to protection and rescue during the implementation of the protection and rescue activities in disasters is linked to the single system and is being insulted by the competences in the management. Furthermore, it states that the proposed Law does not affect the jurisdiction of state authorities and other legal entities but exclusively wishes to coordinate all necessary activities in the event of disasters or major accidents. The Committee does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure and after the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer of the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24827	Thank you. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, respected representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24828	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that sets the legal and organisational foundations of Croatia's modern system of protection and rescue of the civilian population and material goods, including other laws prescribed water protection and environmental protection. The proposed system of connections is also compatible with similar systems in the European Union according to the level of protection and rescue standards set as well as the operational protocols. In doing so, as a candidate for membership in the European Union, Croatia is working on an important element of adaptation. It improves the protection of its own citizens, and as a tourist country it creates conditions for our guests to feel as safe as in their own country. The current civil protection system, created everywhere in the world since World War I, has been moved from one resolute ministry to another, but the underlying problem has not been resolved. Multidisciplinaryity at the speed of the necessary reactions in disasters and major accidents exceeded the responsibility of the individual ministry, and the hierarchical equality slowed down the necessary coordination to improvisation, unpredictable speed and uncertain results. Floods, earthquakes, landslides, dives, meteorological accidents, fires, ecological incidents of different causes, haematisms on technological facilities, major traffic accidents, terrorist attacks, sources of threats to individual and modern society as a whole that must be opposed to organised prevention and reaction, pooling knowledge, information and available resources for an adequate response. Therefore, this Law proposes establishing the State Administration for Protection and Rescue as a roof institution with very broad powers and responsibility to foresee, implement the preparation of available resources, react and prevent or mitigate the consequences in all emergency situations. This Law, in chapters 14 and 67 of this article, defines the matter in a concise and precise way, from the meaning of the concepts of protection and rescue, basic tasks, operational powers of the system, training, rights and obligations of the participants and that of the citizens, legal entities of the units of local and regional self-government, central authorities of the State Administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the role of the State Protection and Rescue Authority. The Director of the State Administration shall be given the appropriate powers and degree of independence so that in the event of emergency interventions, decisions can be made without delay and staffed by the administration in order to prevent or limit the occurrence of the disaster. I am pleased that among the operational forces is explicitly mentioned Croatia's Mountain Rescue Service, which, despite its exceptional results, has had quite a legally undefined status, turning difficulties, overcoming the difficulties that have arisen from this indeterminateness exclusively with enthusiasm. What constitutes an important step towards integration into the security standards of the European Union is the single operational communication centre 112. Defined in chapter 6 of this Law with only three articles but that's quite enough. To date, the European Union has regulated the urgent assistance problem with a number of documents, from which it is based in 1991. Council of events 91/396. Single European Emergency Call number with 112 accepted as a single number for any kind of emergency assistance in the European Union countries. In Articles 37, 38 and 39 of this Act, Croatia does the same thing, establishes a single operational communication centre 112 for all types of emergency situations as a place where all calls related to accidents and threats to the occurrence of possible disasters are received, and with the application of standard operating procedures, the services are reported in hastily and coordinated. The 112s centre means the integration of different subsystems into a single system significantly more efficient than it has ever been before, supported by a very sophisticated IT, telecommunications and logistics support, which includes a special helicopter service in the further perspective. In America, the equivalent of that number is 911, and we have had opportunities to see in television shows the operation of this service. This will certainly put out gradually, using up to now multiple hazard numbers, such as 92 MUP, 93 firefighters, 94 emergency medical care, 985 Information Centre, 9155 National Adversities for Searching and Rescue at Sea, and for all cases, a single number 112 will be used. In some countries of the European Union, both types of numbering work during the transitional period, this means these dispersed calls together with a single number but only as a transitional period. For all telecommunications operators in Croatia, the law stipulates that this number is free, but even more so, in Article 39(2), another extremely important obligation. The centre 112 is obliged to enable the location of the call, which means the possibility of a spatial finding of the source of the call for help, especially in mobile phone. With the application of the GIS program, the Geographical Information System and the possibility of determining the fastest routes for intervention, I will remind you of the sudden infidelity of this summer, when two men fell into the sea, and the woman stayed in the boat and invited her to help, however, she did not know where she was and the problem was to locate the boat and intervene. In addition to today's technical opportunities and the obligation I mentioned which law prescribes for mobile network operators, such a situation will be resolved. This ability to locate calls gives another important effect, so-called. filtration of calls i.e. procedure for the rapid elimination of false alarms and the determination of multiple calls, i.e. different calls that warn of the same accident. Once again, I will remind you that about 100 million Europeans travel to other countries annually. European Emergency Number Association warns of an increased risk of accidents for tourists in an under-known environment, ignorance of the way and procedures of calls for assistance, non-knowledge of language, this risk significantly increases. Therefore, the establishment of a single number to assist 112 with an equipped and trained operational communications centre makes Croatia an additional attractive, safe destination and the Croatian tourist brand with natural beauty and cultural sights receives another significant component, which is a sense of security. The envisaged takeover of people and the resources of the current Monitoring and Notification Service, fire and civil protection facilitates the establishment of a new system in a material way but also through the use of existing experiences in human terms. The procurement of equipment and funds and the adaptation of facilities is foreseen in stages according to the financial opportunities of the budget, with a satisfactory projection to ensure that the system is rounded up in a 5-year period. In the light of the above, this Law does not impose new obligations on units of local self-government which were not subject to the Fire Department Act, the Law on Internal Affairs and the Law on the Protection of Essential Accidents, and I conclude with a statement that the HDZ Club will support this Act, so I suggest to the other representatives, regardless of the parties, that they do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24829	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24830	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First, I will immediately state the position of the HSP Club regarding the Final Bill, we will in this case follow the principles better than nothing, and therefore we will support this Law but we must be aware that we do not get much, we get much more than we have, and in this area we have very little or nothing for now. I will just remind you that we, the HSP Club, and at the constitutive session of this meeting of the Croatian Assembly, have warned about the situation in the field of protection and rescue we in our Proposal for a Law establishing ministries and state-run administrative organisations had to be established, so to speak. The state crisis administration, namely, many countries in the world have either crisis ministries or under a similar term that have this function of protection and rescue, and we were glad that the prime minister had accepted that part, and after that we came to have it set up, so the state protection and rescue administration was set up, so let's remember how badly it was carried out, so we had to react with the amendment because it wasn't said when it would start working, it was just to form up, and then we said that the description, the delirious affairs, is not what has to have such an important state body. And now that I'm talking about it, we just have to get to what the system is one, which means we have a system. The system means in the field of protection and rescue to have the following, to have an information base, that is this subsystem which here is true for the will of norms and regulates, the second is to have power and resources and the third command line of action. That's what makes the system. What do we get with this law now? We're only getting this first piece of information base undeniably, and that's important to start with to start with the work of the State Department for Protection and Rescue, what our situation with forces and resources is really bad. All we can think of is the state of our civil protection? And civil protection was ready to enter the Homeland War and has played an important role in all rescue actions, after which the system was totally neglected. Let's remember any elemental accidents whether the flood, this, that, wasn't civil protection. Let's just remember the mountain rescue service, and otherwise it's one of the measures of protection and rescue. People are willing to try, and they can't have, and I guess now they'll finally have full support from this State administration, in a way that can act in all situations in a timely manner. What's the situation with the fire department? - We know. Now that it's also very important for us to get into that part of the coast guard normally, we haven't solved that part yet. So there's a lot of problems and dubiosis in all of this. We need to be realistic about one situation that we discussed about the state of defense preparations. It's also about civil defense. Yeah, that's what civil defense is all about. All these elements are also civilian defenses. And we saw we didn't even have a defense plan. And for the functioning of the protection and rescue system, it is particularly important to have a preparedness plan. Because the three-degree stand-by plan is working and doing exactly that in case of rescue actions, depending on what kind of elemental accident, other accidents, whether it's an act of terrorist activity and everything that can happen to us. Because this ensures an organised and organized gradual rise in strength and resources and their reference and action on the spot where it should be. In this respect, this part will be further needed, so we expect the Government to come up with a proposal for the Civil Protection Act, will also come up with a proposal for the Fire Law, with a proposal for a new Law on Protection against elemental disasters. There are two versions to get rid of. The version of one of us might be best if all the material regulations here were contained, but there they are not. So to expect it means that soon these special laws will appear, because then it will only establish a system. Because this isn't, this is the initial work now to get us a system of protection and rescue. But I'm saying a lot of it will need to be done and everything else, especially, watch out for me in these situations, protection and rescue actions there's no guessing, no guesses, it's known, if some accent happened, let's just say, the tanker we had cases two years ago on Plitvices, it didn't know anything that anybody was doing, the police came looking, she normally she was looking from the point of view of a car accident and the rest, instead of having a system, we got a tip on number 112, the tanker had it, and that's what's automatically coming from this State Security and Rescue Authority, so the fire department's going to go to...teren, so that's how it's done in the modern states, and that's how we have to have to have a system. Or, say, fire one variant, another variant. The level is that the municipality or city with its part that has a subsystem of protection and rescue, we used to have headquarters, or civil protection headquarters at the level that, at that first level themselves acted, but it was always the line of leadership and command that means the central body requires, the assessment is immediately made, the situation is such and such a nature that the forces of that city can solve this problem. If the higher level is immediately sought, but immediately comes an order from the central body to include troops, i.e. forces and means of protection and rescue from another city, from the county or if larger, then goes to 4.5 counties. Now, we have to have it all in the plan of measures of protection and rescue, those are the degrees. Remember how they have other states, they have colors, whether it's a pink case, get into any U.S. Army unit or anywhere else, you'll always know what degree they're in. That's what we need to win. It's the part where we need to work extra hard and then we're going to get one complete system of protection and rescue and we're going to have a guarantee that it's going to be able to operate in all situations, so it's effective. And that's why it's obviously going to need to work precisely towards degrees and species, whether it's a elemental accident, whether it's a natural disaster, whether it's an accident, whether it's an accent, whether it's this, whether it's an exact procedure, and whether the assessments are always contained, because you're watching all of these bodies have to have their own assessments, you have to have it figured out how they're going to act, means that we can be sure that we have what we need, and in this way we're going to help normal implementation and defence preparations, and we're going to round up this whole system, and we're going to be sure that it's always going to be able to act and respond to the demands of the citizens. But they're the worst variants, and I can see again that some crisis headquarters is being set up. We don't need any crisis headquarters if we have an organized system. We, in the context of such actions or things, can have... bodies to use in that body those people who are in the area, depending on which accident, accent, ecological or other intentional to give an assessment of what means should be used and everything else. We don't need a crisis control if we have a system, if we have a central body, if we have a chain of command, and if we know who, what and when to do it, that's the system, and that's how we get what we need. So, in the end, I'm just repeating it means we're gonna support this because it's better to have something than nothing. But we expect additional efforts from the government, because you see a lot left to do and to get what we want here in the Parliament, and to keep civil protection and everything else up to the level that it can work, because I am a number without power and resources and chain of command doesn't mean anything, it means more than we have now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24831	Thank you. Club HSS Honorable Representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24832	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is exactly the fourth time this regulation is in front of the Croatian Parliament. Unfortunately, I was lucky twice, or three times to talk about the same law, twice on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia when she proposed it in the former assembly of this Parliament and once when it was proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party. I must say that I regret to conclude that the Government then disagreed with the proposal of the Croatian Peasant Party Act, although I am very responsible for saying that the text of the law was more complete and quality. It is known that in the spring of this year, or I think even in December, so the changes in the spring, the Law on Design and Labour of Ministrys and State Administrations were established by a new administrative body called the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, and that's good. We really needed such a administration before, because we are a high-risk country, primarily in the area of fire and fire protection, and such a administration was necessary in our country. It was determined by this regulation and the work of the Administration, and it was actually given one appropriate deadline for the Government to pass a series of laws, including this and a series of sublegal acts, some of which were brought by the Government, and some of the Head of the Administration in this case, the Director of the State Administration, so that the work could be done and that we eventually had a circled, legally rounded one whole. Since then, to this day it is in fact how much I am known to be appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue and we have received the final proposal of this Act. I'm really sorry that in such a complex preeminent area, it goes with a final proposal that this law does not go into two readings because I think we could get a better text. First of all, I would like to say that in this session of the Assembly, the Proposer, and I suggest to the Proposer, agree that this will be the first reading of the law and that we must accept first of all the remarks, although it would be more convenient if it were amendments, because this is the final draft of the Law Committee because they are really fixing this text. And finally something or at the beginning about the text of the law itself. It was evident that the system of protection and rescue had to enter activities which are now the separation before the then government in seven and now in four ministries. This is also the logical consequence of the drive to have a uniform system with the countries of the European Union, and this administration must indeed unite fire protection matters. Firefighting, civil protection, mountain rescue services, rescue and search at sea, but also one service that the HSS has included in the system of protection and rescue, and I can see that it is not here and that is an emergency medical service. Namely, if you see similar systems in the countries of the Western European Union then it is evident that such services are in such a system and it is not clear why the promoter did not and the emergency medical services included in this system because it by the very nature of things belongs more here than in the Ministry of Health where it is currently located. What will have to be done because this law is not in agreement with the Fire Department and the other regulations will be and this will be a short time-limit for the Proposer to adopt and first of all the Government to propose a new Fire Department Act, a new Civil Protection Act, a law that does not actually exist. I want to say the Law on the Mountain Rescue Service and I think it is quite short notice if these regulations should be entered into the Croatian Parliament because the administration starts working on January 1st next year and these laws are still missing and I want to believe that these laws will be sent to the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible, unfortunately again as the final proposals are being made because it is too short. What should also be pointed out is that the text of the law is quite uneven. Nomotechnically it is not done the way it should be and I think it is still to fix the amendments and I hope that we will see the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'll just give you a few examples. The law often regulates that the Head of State Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia are laying down regulations, it is clear which regulations can be passed by the Heads of State Administration. There is a Law on the System of State Administration which states in its Article 17 exactly that the Head of State Administration is to adopt rules, orders and instructions and there are no other regulations which he could adopt other than those. Article 18 of the same law, therefore, of the State Administration System Act, elaborates exactly what is regulated by any of these regulations, so it was instructed to write precisely in this law when it comes to the fact that the Director of the State Administration adopts the regulation and ultimately determines what this regulation will be regulated by referring to the Protection and Rescue Act. issues which are not regulated by this law but are regulated by sublegal acts. I think there's still time to fix it, even though I think I'm repeating that it'd be better if this one turned into a first-reading law. In addition, there is little to be seen in the power of the Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, it seems to me that these powers are too wide and undefined. I think there will be problems because of this and often the head of the state administration's body will have those powers or powers that you shouldn't have. If you take a good look at his powers, you will see that the powers are greater than some ministers, even though the rank in the system of state administration is even. What is particularly concerned is that the introduction of the law states that additional funds are needed for the implementation of this law but it is likely that a figure of 80 million kuna has entered in a clumsy way, which will say that this will be necessary for the salaries of so far employed people working in these services and working in the state administration. Of course, that figure simply doesn't stand because they already work in the state administration, they receive salaries from the state budget and it won't be an extra or higher cost but it's definitely the same that it will be necessary by fixing up a complete system primarily thinking about fire and civil protection to hire quite large sums, especially for the promotion of so-called. how we like to call the material basics of work. What should certainly be cast out in the law are foreigners who have a lot to do and what should certainly be done is to fix in some parts of the authority of the administration, thinking primarily of Article 8, paragraph 2, who literally says that the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police in the protection and rescue activities is coordinated by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. And the goal of this administration is to coordinate these activities, which is why it exists. That's the basic goal. The aim of this administration is, above all, to coordinate the work of all the participants in the protection and rescue from one place, and that's what we've been missing, and that's what we need to write here clearly without fear. Then, Article 13, 14, 15, 16, 17 uses the terms of every citizen, every person, citizen, and every citizen. First of all, we need to decide how to formulate it, whether to formulate it each, that means foreigners who, during natural disasters, find themselves in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or whether to write citizens of the Republic of Croatia or all citizens, but in any case, we need to level the terms. Again, Article 12 of the Constitution and the way in which the operational forces are active regularly in incidents and incidents shall be governed by specific regulations. What regulations? What's going on with them? Who's bringing them? I think there are no such provisions. And in the end, one thing that I think is very important. After the adoption of this law and certainly before the start of the work of the administration, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must adopt a regulation on the internal structure of this administration, it is a very complex job. From their own experience, they can say that months need to be passed, prepared first and then passed this regulation and will be required, of course, to adopt a systematization rule, how many people will work with descriptions of their jobs or jobs. These are complex jobs, and it says more to the team that this law should certainly pass two readings. After all, nothing will happen if this administration does not start work 1.1. I know that this is a good term for the proposer because of the fire season, that we have always tried to make what happens in that legislative sphere in this activity always happen during the winter and that's how the terms are timed. However, nothing will happen if the work of this administration is delayed. In fact, I think we'll get better rules. And then, finally, in the transitional and final provisions, I suggest to the applicant that the transitional and final provisions, in particular those relating to the takeover of employees, study carefully the criminal provisions whether they are in accordance with the law and infringements or not, and in any case, one provision that really stabs the eyes, which is where it reads in Article 3(5). "The director will prescribe" again does not say by which regulation "the way in which the fee for temporarily withdrawn movements is determined in accordance with market value.". So we have laws that regulate it and the director of the administration is actually limited above all by the Law on Mandatory Relations and all other regulations that regulate it. I suggest this is the first law reading, so we'll have a better text of the law. I suggest if... at least the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in line with the observations made by the Committee on Legislatives and I think we will get one more quality text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an important area, it's not to be rushed, nothing's gonna happen unless this administration comes to life at 1.1 next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24833	Thank you very much. The SDP Club is a respected representative of Sima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24834	Mr. President, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think any of you need to explain the importance of the matter treated by the Protection and Rescue Act since today's modern world, and thus Croatia is increasingly facing different types of accident to say the accident of enormous proportions. Unfortunately, as in many segments of the life of this world in part of globalisation, it's our misfortune to say, and when it comes to accidents, it's actually part of a certain globalisation. Partly it's normal or also the highest result of technical, technological development, but yet it's one part actually the state and a certain political, mental, economic situation without even talking about terrorism. And therefore, I think that this matter and this Law have no person in either Croatia, no economic operator or company, no institution, whether it's a government of the local self-government or a private business that this Law does not concern. In fact, this Law should also assume some opportunities and situations that we might encounter. I don't know, we could be playing some kind of prophecy right now and say whether, in the coming period, a great elite disaster like that, like those that have hit the last months of the United States, Japan, will hit and hit Europe. Probably will. In fact, I needed these few introductory sentences for a simple reason to say that I am personally dissatisfied with this Law. I personally expected this Law to be at least something more abundant. In 67 articles to try, regulate this problem seems too ambitious to me that this ambition can often remain on one level, so remain at surface level, only superficial. A team before this law actually enters into other spheres. There have already been speeches, the problem is Croatia, and in that a number of other areas treated by this Law, such as civil protection segments, such as the fire department, which should be said by the most orderly, such as the mountain rescue service, such as the notification and information system, are therefore not defined. Some countries know the situation that, in fact, one whole law solves this whole problem. I'd just be happier if we were already here if we didn't get everything in one law that we got these few laws, at least civil protection law, and let's say fire protection as one elemental accident that we meet most often together. Because I'm sure there'll probably be a chance to read it from a phonogram that we'll get into a situation when we pass the Civil Protection Act and hopefully we'll almost bring it to the new Fire Protection Act to change, to change this law. And that's why it would be so much better for me if we were actually on the benches, and today we got a chance to discuss, to discuss this, this law. So one assessment seems to me that the law does not meet the requirements, the demands of time. Because first of all, a systematic solution to this problem requires an answer to a number of questions. It's about those press questions, you know, who, when, why, where and how much. Because from experience when it comes to fire protection, one of the basic problems is, let's say, the command system. When it comes to disasters, there must be no room for someone to give, one order is given, and the other one will not execute or that some two at local, local or state level will talk about whether they will do this or that. I'll give you an example. Let's just say we had a situation where a fire commander is somewhere in a local area where a fire reports that there's a free canadian, that this canadian is supposed to take off and drop that water bomb. This guy from the field just says there's no need, because like them, they have enough power, they control that fire. It just happens that the wind turns and the Norman fires, the fires spread. In fact, I want to point out that this law defines a situation that I don't know, Chief, Mayor, the person of the unit of local self-government that they're in charge of actually managing crisis situations, elemental disasters, disasters on their own actually, in their field seems a little bit, seems a little tense to me. For the simple reason it is, in this area it happens but in five minutes or ten minutes, the area of the accident can be spread rapidly. So I think at least, when it comes to the chain of command, whether it's management, whether it's, is it some kind of crisis headquarters, which the headquarters that's mentioned here, it doesn't matter to me, but it seems to me that we should actually clearly define who's in charge of crisis situations. Why? For the simple reason to know later and who's responsible. Because when you have a mixture like this and a mix like this, then you can't tell who's responsible. There's already been a lot of talk here about getting pretty mixed up in jurisdiction. It seems to me that even some sort of solution is not legal but constitutional. You've got a situation like this where the director of the rescue board brings in a list of mobilizations. And do you know who declares mobilization? Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now you actually have a situation where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is acting on the plans of mobilising the director of one administration. I actually think that these things should, that these things should change. The only one who can and can adopt the plans can write them who will, but who can adopt the plans, who can declare mobilization, is neither the director of the administration nor the mayor in his field but still has to take over the government. Why? 'Cause that's what it costs. In fact, this Law has not solved one other question, and this is a question of who will, for example, be able to mobilize people who withdraw from different companies, make up for, say, journals. That's a very important question. One of the reasons why the civil protection system fell is that. I think that should actually be clearly and decadently regulated. We simply when we talk about this segment, civil protection should be by my name, to call it the headquarters, the central part of that vanity. You have countries where, like, firemen, fire departments especially, you have countries where fire is in civil protection. You have a situation where, for example, the Mountain Rescue Service is in civil protection, you have a situation where the mountain service is not part of civil protection. And so on, and so on. So we just don't know at this point what this whole story is going to be on the professional side of the structure, and that's very important. Because when you don't know how the story is structured, you don't really know how the whole story is going to coordinate. Because in this situation, it's very important to coordinate who comes first, who performs second, etc., etc. Who's that, say, who's the one who's gonna make the decision to send some sort of flooded area somewhere I don't know, some kind of helicopter unit. Now, yes, when I mentioned helicopter units, maybe actually, regardless of the possibilities, the financial needs of this law and predict some standard minimum of some kind of, minimum of some kind of equipment. In fact, what we've got, it's kind of shape-shifting and it's at the disposal of the administration. In fact, the fact is that this law only had one intensity, which is: to form that administration. And it doesn't matter which way and which way that administration is going to manage, and the other thing is that it's actually forming this center, the center of 112 which I think, which I think is certainly very, very important, here. Because if you don't have defined efficiency, if you don't have a defined coordinated, coordinated, pardon, speed and coordination then hard, and the equipment then you can hardly expect a level of efficiency, or efficiency, or efficiency, efficiency of the entire system. But for a few, a few concrete remarks. I agree with those who said that actually funding, it's written in one section that it's actually hard to project how much it's going to cost. Well, I mean, it can be done about what you expect to get in this first step with this law. So it's not clear to me that I'm going to need some pay back for people who are already working in the system. On the other hand, it's also not clear to me if it's going to go to system 112, so I guess it's going to be modern digitalized equipment that's being recorded and so on, you should see that when you take over all 500 people who are now working at the Information and Alert and Information Centre so as not to get into a situation that when that administration is formed that in two months, these people actually end up on the street. In fact, it should be seen and found solutions when a regulation is adopted, when the systematization rule is applied, what about these people. Because when you have an administration that counts 800 people, then it shouldn't, or I don't think it's just the administration that should serve someone, but actually, there should be some kind of operating force along there, and with these cops that are mentioned there. It seems to me that there was an opportunity to take advantage of one of the experiences Croatia had primarily during the war, which is when it comes to civil protection. I don't know why we didn't predict in civil protection, let's say, we have a large number of young, relatively young officers who are retired to join the civil protection system. Why don't we predict that one of the basic offers when a guy wants to serve a civilian military deadline then he needs to be told, "Yes, the first offer is... And so on, but first you have to go serve a military term in civil protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it seems to me, in fact, that the very word says civil protection thus has no weapons, but there are some other things where you can, I can do various specialist trainings. I'd pray the same way. It seems to me that the law lacks clear balance and defined jurisdiction of the administration and the ministry. It seems to me in fact that in certain situations you don't know who's in charge? Is the administration of the ministry or the Ministry of Management? I think that this should simply be covered, resolved by decisions and certain decisions that should be made by the Government. The issue of the Ministry of Defense being involved. It also raises one question. Do you include the Ministry of Defense... Or are there specialist special forces? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then we should actually define the way who and in what way commands the defence department units, or the Croatian Army, because we know how the Constitution is prescribed, and who is, in fact, the Supreme Commander and how does the command chain in the military go? What I think is still very important, and it's not listed here. So there are the needs of certain planning and so on, but it seems to me that this is a space in which it should also define the position of large companies that have strategic significance for the Republic of Croatia. So companies that are of national interest. First of all, I think of all companies that, which are involved in energy, large companies that cover large infrastructure facilities of type of roads, roads, water, and so much as I think Croatian television is very important to me. That's the media. And I actually agree with all those who think that this law should have included emergency medical attention. Because she's actually one of the components, the emergency medical attention is actually the service that in case of an accident, the accident should be the first to go to the scene. And about solutions that are also not directly and clearly indicated, which I think should be indicated, which is: in which situations, when and who restricts the movement, freedom of movement of citizens, or the availability of property and property. Since in these situations, normally when accidents are large scales, there are certain restrictions and I don't see what law, it seems, however, that this law is the most appropriate to define them all together. And in the end, the SDP Club will join those who say we better have any law than none. I believe that the amendments that will be proposed during this debate or after the debate will also be adopted, and I also think that the most ideal solution would be if there were another reading. Because I think in a month since that... Today, it is likely that the proposal will be completed so that nothing will happen if this law enters into force instead of 1.1 next year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24835	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24836	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Lucin said that we should provide for rules on the execution of civil service that military bonds can carry out civil service or civil protection. It's meant to be, but unfortunately, it's not being executed because we don't have civil protection. He also said about, uh, not knowing how the military is working in the search and rescue actions? It's settled by the Defense Act. The military can mobilize and participate in actions of protection and rescue, and then it is under the command of that body that leads to actions of protection and rescue, and the issue of material... provided for by the Law on Protection against an elemental accident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24837	Thank you. Honored representative Nikola Vuljanic on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24838	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. For all the reasons that the predecessors have said, because of globalisation and the dangers of terrorism, because of climate change and possible major climate disasters, because of technological developments and possible technological disasters that are strangely referred to here as "accessors", it is certainly necessary to pass such a law, especially because by passing this law Croatia fits into the system, in the European system... But I fear that all these good intentions in this text of the law will not actually be realized and that the law will remain well at the level of declaration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is that the law cannot be applied at present, and somehow we have been constantly making laws with delayed phase shifts in application. That the law cannot apply the speeches and transitional and final provisions of this law which say that the implementing rules will be adopted within 6 months. All this together clearly points to the need that has already been pointed out here and we well-intentionedly advise the Proposer that this law, to withdraw the urgency of the procedure of this law, because if the Proposer accepts this to be the first reading through the first and second reading, we will certainly come to a better solution. There's a lot of illogicality. This also confirms the report of the Committee on Law enforcement, which is on page 246. There is almost no article on which the Legislative Committee has no objection to these serious objections. I'll try to illustrate some of these illogicalities. Article 1 is amended as set out in this Article, the environment is not mentioned, environmental protection is not mentioned. It mentions saving citizens, protecting material goods and so on. There is no mention of environmental protection, and the biggest tragedy of the greatest catastrophes that can happen could actually be reflected in the environment. Article 2 lacks phases. Each of these situations of crisis catastrophic has a phase of development and our reaction to that situation should have phases. From the stage of alertness to the phase of recovery and relief of the consequences of what happened. The text of the law carries out expressions that are later explained in the members of the law themselves, and there is no need for them at all. Some quite new expressions, such as the accent, I have also tried in the dictionaries which are available here to look at, which means the accent, except in the dictionary of foreign words, there are no words elsewhere. It's an ecident, but it's not just an ecident, there's something else about words. Article 5 speaks of who implements this Law. There are no humanitarian organizations and associations, they're mentioned later. Like bonds that someone will force to comply with the provisions of this Act. I don't know how they're going to force them, but if they were built up as parts of the system, then coercion wouldn't be necessary. It seems to me that the most controversial in my opinion is Article 8 which speaks of the engagement of the armed forces. Under this law, the ministry, or this administration, engages armed forces. So it is known how the armed forces in Croatia are engaged, and who employs the armed forces who give permission to engage the armed forces of the Ravants of this institution, it is already said from this pay phone, in some places crossing the authority of some ministers. The Director issues implementing rules and similar things that simply fall into the work of anything. I think we should comply with the other regulations. This is set out in Article 9(3) of Article 61(3) and similar. Throughout the law, the concepts of citizens and individuals are being chased. So the citizens are bound to report some kind of accent. Or some kind of disaster or something they can see. Citizens are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And I guess that's an obligation to report everyone. So why does it say that everyone is obliged to report such a situation if they see it? I mean, foreign citizens. We have millions of tourists during the summer, so that obligation obviously needs to be applied to them. In Article 15, the obligations of citizens to be educated for this system and to be involved in this education system for the purposes of protection and rescue are scholarshipd. I don't know how that obligation is meant to be realized, I don't see it that way. Maybe he'll explain to us what he's proposing. It is also an obligation to highlight certain notices and specific instructions for handling in these situations on residential buildings in Articles 20 and 38. It's okay when it comes to some big apartment blocks and things like that, how to implement that obligation, in individual housing buildings. Individual apartment building is also a residential building. If you don't think about it then you should write it. One more thing that seems completely unspeakable to me and that for every law should actually be asked a question, from this g lorry that's who's going to pay for it. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 30000. 55th and so on, either it goes to the expense of local self-government, which has already been hit by disaster and which apparently has no money to pay the fees, or is not known who it's going to be. Well, it says it'll pay off. Someone's gonna pay, so I guess the state budget, but then it needs to be written that it's the state budget. Article 53 established the right of appeal to a mobilisation solution in that system, i.e. on the temporary confiscation of funds. The appeal deadline is eight days. Now think of the situation, otherwise the appeal, normal appeal time is 15 days. The situation of some sort of massive flood is, some kind of major disaster, taken away, say, means of transport to someone on that ground. He has eight days to complain. And it's underwater, and the water hasn't retreated in eight days. I don't know what it's for. Furthermore, after the appeal and after the decision of the board of directors, there is no further procedure. Under this law. I think we should also explain what happened to hiring people, and my colleague Lucin was talking about it. Obviously, it will be a very modern system that must be a modern system, electronicly equipped, and so on. Which will now employ a few hundred people from existing services. Which, without further ado, and that intense simply simply won't be able to function in that system. We don't know what's going to happen to them today. We also have prepared amendments on all of this, which will send them into the procedure, but indeed and very well-intentionedly I would suggest that this text be withdrawn from the urgency of the procedure. It doesn't serve much, let's do about this very important topic of law that we'll really be able to apply. Which in practice will be able to function at the moment. This is not a law that can be discussed very much when it comes to application. He'll have to do exactly what he says within the minute. If the law is not decidently written if it is not clear, accurate and unambiguous, none of this together and this remains just a declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24839	Thank you very much. In 10.48 timed out for a ten-minute hearing. Club IDSa esteemed representative of Walter Drandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24840	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry. The law on protection and rescue is also under the IDS Club a law needed by Croatia and should be a law that unites all subjects of protection and rescue into an efficient and rational system. We view this law as a law that, and sometimes, is misjudged in a way that affects the regular work of these services in their regular activities, we view it primarily as a law to be prepared, to train the entire system, to all the regular activities that are currently involved in their regular work in the case of disasters, and we think that this is the only proper way to look at this law, because we do not really feel that it should have much influence on what these systems do today. The IDS believes that the protection and rescue system in the Republic of Croatia is necessary to organise at the level of municipalities, cities and counties as defined by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and that at national level it is necessary to establish a body in the function of coordination, promotion and training, and certainly international cooperation. The owners of the protection and rescue system must be entities which are already in the regular activity engaged in protection and rescue and above all, allow me, a fire organisation as the most organised force with existing organisational and technical opportunities. The Fire Organisation is day and night doing a large part of the work and activities from the domain of protection and rescue, and it is logical that the system of protection and rescue develops from this service as already organised in most countries of Europe. At the level of municipalities, cities, counties and states, there is no need to create a new administrative command structure, but to form protection and rescue commands as operational bodies that develop from existing fire departments complemented by members of other services and protection entities as already said before me, primarily emergency services, mountain services and other entities. For crisis situations, existing protection and rescue entities should be complemented by the required number of debtors, and for the purpose of intervention of crisis situations of national importance, possible international assistance. The existing forces of primarily fire and other protection entities should be established by means of developed plans. The unique system of intelligence and alarming, system 112, as well as the integration of all protection entities, will need to be organised within the framework of the fire department by upgrading existing operational and communications centres of fire, which still exist today and still work 24 hours today. Based on such a system of protection and rescue what is important, it is necessary to establish a new, new financing system for these needs at all levels. We believe that this form of protection and rescue, as proposed by the IDS, achieves a significant nationalisation of concentration and concentration of equipment and people in a unique organisational structure and an effective system that will ensure the necessary level of security. The undisputed most prepared organisation to take over the role of the country's security and rescue holder is a fire organisation that confirms the experience of other European countries as well. The system of protection and rescue that is not as a backbone has fire will not be rational, it will be too expensive, and we think it will be both underefficient and complicated. The system needs to be created in a way that does not create new administrative structures, that no new units are created, new services that take over from those who live daily with problems of protection and rescue, which are primarily firemen who do so every day and whose life commitment it is. The Directorate for Protection and Rescue has the logic of existence only at the state level, as a administration that, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, prepares and organises a system of protection and rescue at national level, but the actual operational development of this system needs to be implemented at the level of counties, cities and municipalities. The responsibility for this must be on the mayors, mayors and commissioners. It is logical that the measures and forces of the protection and rescue system are developed from those forces already in existence and operating 24 hours a day. It is too expensive to create new structures, new administrations, new units and others, it is already needed from the fire protection system through additional equipment, training and the dissemination of the number of people for disasters to create an efficient and complete system of protection and rescue that will intervene quickly and efficiently. Today, more than 100 professional fire departments with over 3,000 professional firefighters, over 1900 voluntary fire companies with about 62,000 volunteer firefighters and more than 140,000 supporting members work in the fire department. This system can only be managed and commanded by those who do so on a daily basis and who, as their regular job, will also have the development of a system of protection and rescue, which are primarily commanders in these structures of fire-fighting commanders. The same applies to the 112 centres that we consider necessary 1 such centre for each county and those centres as I have said before should be integrated into the existing vatzrogas operational centres of the county and these centres should be filled in by an additional number of perpetrators who are in the function of the overall protection and rescue system, in function 112 and I have already said that emergency assistance should be included in this system, primarily emergency assistance, and other services, as a mountain rescue service. In this way, we would get an efficient and rational system that would provide security, rapid and quality interventions, with a concentration of all subjects of protection and rescue on a shared life and a clear line of command and responsibility from municipal or city commanders, county commanders, together with mayors, mayors and mayors to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the State Command, and not as stated in Article 9(2) of the Management Command. It cannot be a command of the administration, it can only be a command of protection and rescue of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask the promoter to amend it with his amendment. Also, what is significant and important, is necessary for cities, municipalities and counties to establish this system, to identify additional sources of revenue for financing this activity. The restructuring of the protection and rescue system of the Republic of Croatia should be carried out on a modern basis. The system should be scolded by the world and European experiences of transforming state organisations to the protection of the population, which were once civil defences in the event of a war in the environment while it was a block division, through peaceful state organisations for local and industrial accidents such as civil protection, under the influence of the development of democracy and development and unification of the overall level of protection of the population, we must restructure this system into a modern management system. It is a management in disasters for local and regional self-government units, creating systems of effective response and disaster management. This teaches us the historical development of these systems and I have one short analysis, 17 European countries, and the United States and Japan from which it is seen that the system of protection and rescue in the world and Europe has developed in several stages. The first phase was in the bloc's division after World War II, when a strict state, civil defence was established that acted in parallel with existing protection and rescue organisations. This organization was primarily focused on protecting the population in the event of a war. This means shelters, underground and transparent hospitals, protection in the event of nuclear war, and the resolution ministry in most cases was the Ministry of Defence or Home Affairs. This system has given up primarily because of very high costs, because of the accumulation of administration and because of incompetence to respond to increasingly complex security and rescue challenges. Durga stage is a phase of the growth of the dangers of natural but primarily of industrial and traffic so-called. elemental and civilizational disasters where the civil defence system grows into a civil protection system. The characteristics of this phase are to train and equip special units, and their motivation and proper choice has never been satisfactorily resolved. It is also a reserved feature of parallel action, in fact, still bureaucratic inert and three organizations that could not act daily and daily, and in the event of the biggest problems, this organization took over the powers and responsibilities, creating lasting tensions and dissatisfaction of existing regular rescue organisations. And the third system, which should be pursued, is the civil protection system, when the civil protection system grows into a disaster protection system, it is based primarily on existing rescue organisations, and the main role in this is to take over the fire department, because it is precisely because of its density of distribution, massity, especially where the claim of voluntary fire and stalking systems of training is developed, the most competent organisation to take over the leading role in the system of protection and rescue. The management of this system shall be left to local and regional self-government units, and the administration shall act at national level, which shall primarily coordinate the activities of existing services in the preparation and training of protection and rescue and shall be activated only in the event of disasters. I note that European countries continue to seek the best solutions in this regard, but most of them gave up expensive centralised and inflexible civil protection systems between 1982 and 98 and created new, operational management systems in disasters. In the modern world of rescue services that perform daily tasks are the spine of the spine and the core of the system of protection and rescue in disasters, and that is whether it is decentralised systems such as the Netherlands, Spain, Great Britain, whether it is centralized with specially centralised functions such as Belgium, Denmark, France or Sweden or traditionally centralised systems such as Greek or Italian, the fire department, depending on the level, makes the heart of the protection and rescue system. It is also important to note that the setting up of a system that deviates from the principles is as far as possible at local level i.e. the formation of administrations at the regional and state levels in, or outside some system but civil protection is precisely the worst reflected in the fire department especially on voluntary fire. Namely, funds that would otherwise belong to local fire departments are often spent, largely on unnecessary administration in these administrations. Such trends have been observed recently in France and Hungary, where from 98 to 2002, a small number of volunteer firefighters have been halved by an unconstitutional further downward trend. For the Republic of Croatia, the most acceptable system of the organisation is if we want to compare, such as in the Republic of Austria. It respects the basic principles of democracy and tradition, such as the selection of leading functions of a fire department of broader importance, then mass, for example in the floods in lower Austria, 60 thousand firefighters and training and constitutional authority were engaged, which made it clear that protection and rescue were primarily responsible for local self-government. The final proposal of the Protection and Rescue Act, which we have on the agenda today, essentially respects a part of these experiences, but we believe that in the beginning it is burdened with the existing heritage, the existing organisation of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of the Interior, and what is extremely important is that for cities, municipalities and counties it is necessary to create new sources of revenue for the financing of this activity. Otherwise we'll rebuild the unstable system. For example, today's situation in the fire department is where, due to restrictive interpretation, there is still no return to value added tax for the purchase of fire-fighting equipment to fire-fighting units, companies and communities and where, unfortunately, according to the latest information we have received, the problem of financing the regular activity of public fire departments from the Harmony Fund, which worked last year, and it is reported that the overall burden of financing is falling to local and regional self-government in the next year, and that would mean the collapse of the systems, because cities, municipalities and counties today cannot handle this without new sources of income, and therefore we warn that we are not playing with the safety of people, and we are not allowing the tensions and uncertainty of firefighters to be restored again. The IDS will in principle support this bill and we ask that these suggestions and suggestions be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24841	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24842	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's after all we've heard from the Ministry of State Secretary and Club Representatives, let me just say a few shorter observations on this bill. In fact, it is a law that will certainly introduce order in the area of protection and rescue, which clearly defines the competences of all those involved in this process and unites all those who have worked in various ministries in various state bodies on tasks and rescue. Uniting all these activities through one communication centre is of paramount importance for all, above all for the citizens and for all those living in the Republic of Croatia and in this way we have received really one legal basis on which a very good system of protection and rescue can be built. My concerns relate most to the funding opportunities of this system, and it seems to me that it will really need to be projected and well predict how much resources will be needed to fully finance the needs of all the systems that will operate within, I say, this united system itself. The very fact that the operating and communication system, the operational communication system, will operate under a single number, will, of course, facilitate and access to all those who are interested and who want to respond in time to the dangers of the threat, and in this way we will, I believe, indeed in a very short time introduce order. I would refer to a detail that has not been presented so far in the debate, and it concerns specifically the fire departments, although my colleague Drandic has raised the issue before me, it is certainly necessary to resolve the relationship between the voluntary fire departments and the public fire departments. We've had situations, specifically I'll talk about the situation on the ground in our county where the calls for a public fire department have been calculated precisely for reasons to avoid the cost of financing the exit of the same public unit on the ground. Of course, in this way it is endangered, primarily the safety of citizens, of course and their material goods, and unfortunately, much greater damage was created than it would have been if the command of the field had aligned with each other and called on troops that could intervene in the event of major disasters, in this case, in the event of a major fire. I hope that this will indeed remain behind us, that such practice will no longer be the case, because it really is the citizens' interest, the interest of all of us, and that the calculations related to the cost of public fire departments will no longer happen, and in this way we will indeed avoid even greater costs and even greater consequences than they should be objectively. As far as the law itself is concerned, I think it's really very important, it will link all the activities of these, for now individual operating systems, and I really think that the action of all the participants in the protection and rescue in disasters is of paramount importance to all of us. I think this law is really good, and I'm sure most of the clubs in this House will support it. Of course, these suggestions that have already been expressed so far I believe that they will be respected and that we will really come to one quality law for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24843	Thank you. We have one replica, Mr. Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24844	Mr. Vice President, I would not agree with my colleague for a real foundation, because in this law it is proposed that the military be used in addition to the orders of the commander of the Croatian Army, that is the President of the Republic. Therefore, there is no legal basis. First, the army should be used to take the field and only after the military use to sign the order. I don't think there's any legal basis here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24845	Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24846	Mr. Vice President, I can't agree with my colleague Kurt, the legal basis is this very law. When we talk about the law as a legal basis that this system would simply unite and we would get one quality template so that we could put all the activities under one. That is the meaning of this center, the establishment of this center, number 112, of course by telephone number, and of course this is one very good legal basis. What you're saying is quite another question, the issue of jurisdiction which has been resolved by the Constitution, the question of some other laws, the Law of Defence is clearly indicated to you in this bill itself, and what areas are governed by the other law. Therefore, there is no reason to doubt that this is indeed a very good legal basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24847	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, I think it's clear to everyone that this law is extremely important and important because it is still a matter of the safety of all our citizens. However, I cannot agree with some of the settings that Mr. Secretary of State has already said, I will try to challenge them in this way. In the opening part, i.e. the reasoning of this law, it has been said that units of local self-government that have so far not allocated enough money for the purpose of saving, protecting, endangering and all others will be forced to increase those allocations. I'm going to quote, this law will ensure that separations are increased for those units of local and regional self-government that have not so far been set aside for protection and rescue. Mr. Secretary of State, they have so far not singled out for the simple reason that local and regional self-government is unfortunately constantly and continuously not getting enough money to carry out what we are constantly giving new laws on the weak shoulders and regional and local self-government. If we look at Article 28, it is said that units of regional and local self-government in their area determine the sources and way of financing the protection and rescue systems in their area and adopt a threat assessment and adopt plans for protection and rescue. I'm asking you a very simple question now. What if a local self-government unit, meaning a municipality or a city, in its assessment of a truly high degree of threat from an individual accident, is a flood, whether it is some kind of ecological incident that may occur because in its area of highways, and it simply lacks enough money in its budget to ensure, as Article 29 says, the equipment, training and training of the operational forces that the units of local and regional self-government have established on the basis of an assessment of the threat. Turns out we're talking about one thing, and we're doing the other, and if we look at article 57 about funding, there's not a word about local and regional self-government units. On the other hand, in Article 59, a fine of 2 to 5 thousand kuna will be imposed on the person responsible for the offence in the unit of local and regional self-government for failing to comply with the obligations laid down in Articles 28 and 29 of this Article. I am therefore afraid that there is a real danger that units will, both regional and regional self-government, deliberately make such assessments where they may also reduce the real state of danger because they later do not have enough money to comply with these obligations. I ask the question no matter what it is about what is said here in the introduction, about the money that is needed for a certain period, the danger and it is real now. I'll give two examples. For example, in the municipality of Sracinec in Varazdin County, there is a real danger of flooding because Croatia has been running for objective or subjective reasons for ten years since the last flood nothing has done to raise the protective rash and to improve the defence. Therefore, it is obvious that there is a need for units of local self-government in their assessment of insurance and additional resources, because if equipment is to be provided, these equipment should occasionally be renewed, a new one should be bought, I ask from which sources. A large number of kilometers of new highways have also been built in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. According to the data I received, there is still no necessary equipment on these highways, there is no need for people who, in the event of an threat to the case of an ecological disaster, we know that highways go to the transport of dangerous substances and everything else, so if highways are not as a commercial society that still owns a majority state, are not trained to react, this means that one good part of the emergency medical aid, which helps the state to, for example, fire services and everything else, the units of the most common regional and competent municipalities must be involved. Where'd you get the money for all that? I ask how, on the basis of this law, to force such large systems that are owned by the state to secure on one side financial resources, and on the other hand to implement the protection system. I don't see it right now. I'd like to get further explanations. In doing so, it seems to me that under this law, but so far, we also have an uneven treatment of units of local and regional self-government. I'll give it maybe an example that some people don't like. It was said that several predecessors also talked about the fire system in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The fire department, especially the voluntary one, is not equally developed in all areas of the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, the north, and especially northwestern Croatia, where there is a fire company, a voluntary fire company has more or less every village, chronically suffering from a lack of money. Again, the problem is that local self-government units do not have enough money to support all activities. We know that both these and past years, there have been problems with the return of VAT, about the renewal of a lot of expensive equipment, and therefore we come into a dilemma that there are, of course, professional fire departments that are mostly in county headquarters or larger cities. The problem is how to equip them more and more, mostly from the state budget. At the same time, in the southern areas of the Republic of Croatia, we invest in the canaderas and everything else, even from our public fire departments, which is justified, during the summer months firefighters come to the south to put out fires and do prevention, at the same time all or a good part of the activity is then on the burden of volunteer fire companies in our area. So I personally think there are too many open questions. The good thing is a single administration, a single centre to manage, but it seems to me that too little is money, too much obligation, and I'm afraid that the units of local and regional self-government will, when they adopt their own assessments, but also the plans will probably not have to be punished because they can't provide all the financial resources, and by this law we don't provide additional funds to local self-government units, so they're going to make estimates that are weaker than real life brings. That's why I suggest that this law still goes to second reading, because it seems to me from the debates so far that there are too many open questions and few concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24849	Thank you very much. Here's Secretary of State Mr. Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24850	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have to intervene on Mr. Korenik's exposure, because I didn't say this law would force units of local self-government rather than ensure their increased activity. We know that this obligation to adopt a threat assessment and protection plans already exists, it has not been established for the first time by this law since before, the Internal Affairs Act, Articles 24a to 24c. I don't think it would be good to send a message that this law establishes some new obligations and financial obligations to units of local self-government that have never existed before. I was in charge of the city, and I know we've brought a threat assessment to the White Manastir, and we've also come up with a plan of measures to protect and rescue and all units of local self-government. Look at the Internal Affairs Act, Article 24(a) to (g) and I would like it to really go clear that the unit of local self-government is not intimidated, that we will put even more financial burden on them, because it clearly states that the units of local self-government themselves will assess the extent of the threat in their area because they are truly the most competent and have received the leaders of the local self-government unit mandate from citizens to be responsible led by them and that is certainly one of the obligations where they must show all their responsibility, competence and seriousness. Then you say that we have not bound the legal person to bear the burden and insurance, read Article 19(2), which says: "The legal persons referred to in Article 22(1) of this Act shall have the obligation to equip and train the operational plan to identify the number of employees and enable them to participate." Also, Article 22 tells you the same thing about this, read it also: "Legal persons who can endanger the life or health of people or the environment by their activities", which are these persons, legal persons referred to in Article 20, or Article 19(2), where they are said to have "especially legal persons in the field of transport, energy supply, water, and legal persons". Also, one brief answer to Mr Buljanic, who made a series of remarks that there is none of this. This Law should be a framework law that should harmonize all participants in the protection and rescue system. So far, there have been a number of laws, regulations and other regulations that regulate the conduct and central authorities of the State Administration, as well as other entities in the event of a threat. I'll tell you only a few who have come to mind, but who already regulate that area. This, for example, is the Environmental Protection Act with its Action Plan, and then the Maritime Code gives rise to the obligation to adopt a Maritime Intervention Plan in the Republic of Croatia. So then we have a search and rescue plan at sea, and then we have a state flood defense plan based on the Water Law. We also have the State Water Protection Plan, and then we have an intervention plan for the big open fires. Thus, a series of other laws regulates certain segments of everyday life where danger and regulation and action can occur. This Law does not have the ambition to enter and detail the obligations of all futures, I repeat one part again, that is, most of these entities already have their place in other laws, the Law on Explosive Substances and other laws that regulate their obligations and their conduct in the event of the danger of disaster, the elemental accident, we have the Law on elemental disasters and everything else. We have been thinking about how many provisions to put into this Law, however, here Mr Buljanic, we felt that this Law would be adversities if he again instructed all those natural and legal persons who were obliged to participate in this process when the danger of a natural disaster, a major accident or disaster occurred. We should also clarify this issue of relations with the MORH and with the Croatian military. The protection and rescue plan shall be an integral part of the defence plan, in Article 10. The defense law clearly states that this Plan of Protection and Rescue is an integral part of the Defence Plan. Based on this, and the Constitution itself, we cannot exclude the Ministry of Defence from this vital activity for the entire country. Look at the Defense Act, we've been there too, and we've been having the same dilemmas because we, above all, want to establish a civilian institution that will be managed by the civilian institutions of this country. However, the Ministry of Defence must simply find its place, and therefore we have put that Article 9, to negotiate with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence and the Department of Protection and Rescue because we cannot completely exclude and eliminate the new system that is being set up. Let me just say, I didn't want to compromise with you either, but I just want to make it clear that this law is the one that regulates a very complex area. That there are already a series of regulations and laws that we had to take into account when we passed this Law and I have no ambition to say that this Law is perfect. We have already respected a certain part of these remarks that have been made here and we will go through the amendments to the Government, however, I say, it is too complex this issue to offer some simple solutions or to say that this Law has not taken care of certain important matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24851	Thank you. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First is Mr. Miroslav Korenika. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24852	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary of State has denied himself because it is indisputable that units of local self-government have so far failed to raise money because they didn't have the insurance money in the budget. Because unfortunately, often it happens that it is vice-proportional. The greater the threat in the area of one unit of local self-government, the weaker its financial potential. And this way we're leading to the fact that they're going to have to be further singled out again, you said yourself, extra separation. So what is it, a burden? And I agree, and according to the laws so far, the big state-owned companies had an obligation to do something, and they didn't do what they wanted so far, and I'm expressing the skepticism, and I'm expressing again, that they will not do what they want, what we want and what they should do again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24853	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24854	Mr. Vice-President, the Secretary of State has said exactly that the Plan for Protection and Rescue is part of the Defence Plan of the Republic of Croatia, but we do not have a Defence Plan. Therefore, if we had a Plan of Protection and Rescue, we can't act on it because we don't have a preparedness plan that functions exactly in the implementation of this plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24855	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24856	Mr. Vice-President, the secretary of state says the military is being used, but it is not mentioned anywhere that the President of the Republic needs to sign the plan and use the army. And I think the same thing is like someone ordering a military coup and then asking the president to sign it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24857	Thank you very much. No, he can't now. Someone's got to discuss it. Now it's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24858	Dear Vice President of the House, colleagues and colleagues. First, the question raised about this law is, what's the rush? Why emergency procedure? Here, the secretary of state just now, a minute ago, he said this is an uncomplicated question, and we are aware that the law is not ideal. That's an overcomplicated question, but why bring it in in one reading? The reasons why you bring this by an emergency procedure are shown here on page 5. What are the reasons? These reasons are because, in the meantime, the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of Ministrys and State Administrations was adopted this year, and it has nothing to do without this Law, so let's now pass the law quickly so that since 1 January, as this Law on the Designation and Part-Corruption of Ministries is foreseen, it can begin to work. And be careful, this Law on the establishment and the work of the ministries was published on 9 March this year. Eight months ago. So what did you do for eight months? You knew for 8 months that management had to start on January 1st next year. So what were you waiting for for for eight months, instead of using those eight months to do the first reading of the law, so now you come with the second reading of the law to work here as is the order. But no, you've been silent for eight months, and now you're giving it quickly, let's go through an emergency procedure, anyway, like this, a law like this, it doesn't matter, we'll do it to the government's amendments, we'll listen to what you say. Listen, it's not gonna work. It won't work like that. Well, there's no need to do that unless you know how to do it. But if you know and you want to work, then you have to work a little more consciously. There's a lot missing here, you know? That is, I wouldn't say it like this if it were a perfect proposal or a relatively good proposal. But there are shortages of great, great drawbacks. Let's say, let's start right now, let's say, from these terms. Look, you have a threat, he says, "a threat is a condition that could cause an accident or a disaster," and in terms we still have an "incident" and an incident, and an accident, and a bigger accident, so there's no threat for a bigger accident, just for a disaster. Or the accent has no threat, it's so left foot written that they haven't even matched these terms. Needless, I don't know why. Then look, Article 6 of the basic task of the system of protection and rescue is the judgment of possible threats and consequences of planning and preparation for response, and now be careful, reacting to protection and rescue in case of disasters. But not in the case of accidents, not in the case of major accidents, you forgot to list these terms that you have here and written as a threat or as a possible event. It means response to protection and rescue only in the event of a disaster. That's pretty superficial. One question that is not superficial, and which you now wanted to explain, so I would ask you to explain it perhaps after this step of mine. This is the role of the President of the Republic, which is Article 8 you say the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia and the police in the activities of protection and rescue is coordinated by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the administration. They can coordinate, who is the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces in this country, who can make a decision to launch an army? President of the Republic, you can't get around it in law or you have some sort of explanation for why you bypassed it. What else is missing here? Look, you're not supposed to be here at all, you're all possible agents and incidents, threats listed by you have no threat at all from a terrorist act, very current, it's not going to happen. There may be a flood, there may be an earthquake, it may occur, there may be a terrorist act, it may be a threat to you, or there is no possibility in the law at all. So, you're saying that the purpose of this law is to harmonize all services but you have no medical services at all. In Article 26, you say in the preparation and implementation of activities and measures in protection and rescue are required to participate, so now you list, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, and the Croatian Red Cross, and the Fire Community, and the Community of Technical Culture, and cinemalogically and other associations and legal persons, there are no emergency medical services, there are no kinologists, but there are no such emergency services, there are no ones who will come there to provide emergency medical assistance, there are no them in this Act. So you're saying that the goal of harmonising all the factors involved in protecting and saving, but that's exactly what there is, there's no clear coordination, there's no such thing as this law, it's quite bureaucratic, so that's what the local and regional self-governments are proposing to the representative's bodies to create threats and deal with this kind of thing that regulates, but there's no answer to the question of who's raising a canader in the event of a fire, who's giving that order, who's raising a helicopter with emergency medical attention, who's that? Look, you have, if it's community principle, no, because you say that the municipal chief can only do something there in the event of a disaster, so if he doesn't manage to mobilize it all or if the disaster is a little bigger then informs the mayor, so the mayor of the administration and so on. Well, you don't have an answer to the question, first of all, which is why this municipal chief, is assessing whether it's a disaster, based on what or not, and if he's not assessing it if it's just a bigger accident, he can pick up a helicopter, or he can't. It's not there, this coordination here, that harmonisation, that's why you wrote it in the Law. Then look, you find this very interesting, in article 53, it comes up like some deus ex machine says in the case of the needs of a hasty and unsustainable implementation of the protection and rescue measures now some civil servant of the administration with special powers and responsibilities, there has been no such thing in the law that suddenly appears in the 53rd article, so he can ordinarily impose something on him to get some authority. Who's that? A civil servant in the state administration. We don't know who's calling him, or what his powers are, or what he's doing, but now we've seen when we got to the 53rd article of the Law that we can't solve it now, so we introduced this, like this, new face to drama without knowing his name and name. Look, this is an important law and a necessary law, so when we've already missed eight months, not us, but you, to write the bill and discuss it in the first reading, so let's put it off there won't be anything terrible if the law is passed with a month or two delays. Nothing terrible will happen, let it be the first reading, listen to all these remarks, try until the 2nd reading to write a slightly more systematic, more serious proposal, that we have some quality text and that text on which someone will be able to act because under this Law it will hardly be able to act. By the time we find out who's in charge of what, the flood will take five villages. Therefore, I suggest you give up the emergency procedure as a proposing that you respect well-intentioned remarks and make a more serious final draft of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24859	Thank you very much. We have before the secretary of state takes the floor, first one correction to the incorrect quote Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24860	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Stazic said the commander-in-chief orders the army's administration in the event of protection and rescue actions, that is incorrect. The following goes, according to the preparedness plan, a measure is being taken by the Government and on the basis of this measure, let's say from the second degree, the defence minister makes the decision and the president, the Supreme Commander cannot even order the Armed Forces in the war without the co-signator of the Deputy Prime Minister. It's real.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24861	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, first Mr. Zvonimir Puljic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24862	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Stazić, I can't blame you for your desire to use any legal text, and this philigram as detailed as possible, as much as possible, to predict all possible situations and to put them into the norms of the Law that are in the proposal. However, insisting at this point actually means blocking a single project whose law is only a legal basis, which allows us to start and start an activity that will then bring the necessary adjustments and allow the system to perfect itself. We could have been sanding the legal text for years and not moving out of place, that would be completely wrong, you say we're eight months late, then you, don't be wrong, you're four years late, because you haven't even offered the legal text. We are now offering a legislative proposal that enables this service to work, and this action will be improved during work if we stop action, and we will not have that opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24863	Here you go, Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24864	Look, my esteemed colleague, it's not my insistence that the legislative proposal be as precise as possible and as high-quality as possible, the blockage of the project, it's simply a desire for this assembly, that this government, as a legislator of the law, brings as many quality regulations as possible. Again, not just in the interest of this summons the Parliament, not in the interest of this government, but in the interest of the citizens of this country, that's why we're paid, that's why we're getting paid. And the block of the project, don't talk to me. Here's the secretary of state, so let him explain what he's been doing for eight months. That's where the project was blocked. And if it had been done within three months of the Law, it had been established that the administration would be established, or that the administration was founded, and that it would start working with the 1st of January next year, so that they immediately passed the first draft of the law, so there would be no blockade. It's a workin' block, sir... but it's not like there's a block in it. And now we find ourselves in a situation where the parliamentary majority will probably vote for a bad bill. And I agree with you in one piece, the scope of this Law is the establishment of the Administration and the number of that 112. That's a big advantage. That's a big advantage. I don't have anything to blame on 112. But this law should still solve a little bit more, not just set up this Center 112. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24865	Thank you. Replica Mr. Representative of Shima Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24866	Thank you very much. Well, I don't think it's disputed that the president of the state is commander-in-chief of the Croatian Army. I also think it is not disputed that within the Croatian Army there are certain organisational units such as helicopter, medical, etc. which, without a problem, the minister may, with his consent, give management to those who manage certain situations. But when it comes to an accident of greater proportions, when from the east, God should not transfer 2.5, 3,000 soldiers to the west of the country, it certainly cannot go without the commander-in-chief. And I think that dilemma should be solved. And there cannot be a situation that the mayor who manages the situation in his area will be able to command members of the Croatian Army.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24867	Thank you very much. Let's move on. State Secretary Mr. Ivica Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24868	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask Mr. Stazic to listen well now, because I will repeat what I have said. This is an area regulated by a series of other regulations and laws, a series of other regulations and acts of public enterprises, institutions and institutions. I don't think it's a good idea to send the same message to the public that with this law now, in these protection and rescue matters, the army will all of a sudden interfere in a vague, non-transparent way, so there's even someone here who mentioned a coup in a cartoon sense. See Article 92. The Law on Defence paragraph 2, I ask you where it writes clearly that armed forces can participate in these activities and other articles of the Defence Act is clearly prescribed who makes the decisions on engagement and everything else. I'll read it to you, since you probably don't, Article 92. Defense laws. The primary task of the armed forces is: the armed forces protect the sovereignty and independence of the Republic of Croatia, and at least its own, and defend its territorial integrity. Article 2. This is a good listener, armed forces may, subject to the conditions laid down in the Constitution, international contracts and laws, participate in international humanitarian and other operations, carry out certain tasks in a state of direct threat, and this is most important, and assist civil authorities institutions and populations in the event of natural, technical and environmental accidents. Therefore, we felt that there was no need for this provision of the Defence Act to be copied into the Protection and Rescue Act, since it is clear here. In other articles, Article 8 and Article 7 are further detailed as regards the use of parts of the armed forces in the event of natural and technical and environmental accidents. I would only ask, since it is now the impression that this law introduces the armed forces in the protection and rescue operations, as so far last year the members of the armed forces participated in the ceasefire. There was a law that regulated it and this is no news, this just creates another additional legislative framework that explains the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24869	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please. Let's move on. Now it's Madam Representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24870	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would join those who see this Law as something that is not resolved by other laws and as part of a dynamic process that will take place parallelly, and all together aim to both protect and rescue in the Croatian state and to agree with new types of threats and with existing new organisational models and with the European Union's of course legislation, which is our obligation. So, one of the parts of the process has already begun, and that is, of course, the State Administration which was founded and I am particularly pleased that its director, Brigadier Pomrac, is also appointed, which in some way guarantees his natural military experience of commanding that part of the business, because such a State Administration will also require it to be professionally and well and sovereignly carried out. And also, of course, by adopting this Act, because the State Administration will start operating from January 1st next year as a framework law, these processes will be monitored in the implementation and, of course, by the new reorganisation of already existing services from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, during the monitoring of the implementation of this law, this and this law I assume will be carried out and we will be taking part in the new processes of changes and additions as will be shown by the possible better solutions, which I hope that there will be colleagues sitting here to tell us. So what I might point out in this whole thing is my question about this number 112, which is solved in Article 37, so nowhere is explicitly said, but I guess it implies, that the existing numbers to 9 will all start, that I don't count them now, so it's immersed in that 112, or they're going to exist in parallel for a while, so it's going to be tied to a modern digital system, so that's something that maybe the public needs to be explained in more detail. But through, therefore, the implementing acts that will be brought by the Government and the State Administration, I assume that this will be resolved in more detail and that there will be no doubt. What I might be like being involved in this system of particularly observation and intelligence centres during the war, of course, that they are operating in other conditions today, said that it has been a great concern for these people, there are over five hundred of them in the whole country, what will happen to them? - so now I see that this part is solved, so that they will be taken over into this system, that they will continue to carry out these tasks, and that is something that I suppose will reflect well, therefore, on this work, because these are people with long experience and knowledge. What I would especially say is what concerns local administration and self-government. Therefore, it was left to fully autonomously, therefore, assess both possible species and quantities and the timing of its potential threats, but also sources and methods of financing. Therefore, those penalties provided for in those provisions from 2000 to 5000 kuna are not so great that it would in some way force the commissioners rather than leave the local units on a less voluntary basis than so far I will also commend the work of the so far voluntary fire companies in this part of north-western Croatia from which I come. So far, these societies have been equipped not only with tanks or fire extinguishers but also with all the devices that serve in traffic accidents and vehicles for cutting limes, scissors and other modern machines where they participated in the rescue of human lives and in cases that were not just fire. So in that part, there's the only possibility of theoretically. I hope that in practice it will not come into effect when it mobilizes and all its forces if it comes to some threat then those who have mobilized from the municipal budget could seek therefore material resources for what they have done. In the case of some small local unit and large threats and a large number of people being raised, there could be some difficulty in the functioning of the municipal budget. I don't know how to handle it. So there's one such latent danger that some small municipalities won't have enough resources to do that. And I repeat and underline that Croatia will therefore start with this new organisation and work in reality on a new coordinated common and unique system that, again, I am saying, regardless of the comments of this law, which cannot predict everything that is going to happen in life is still better and more effective than it is today. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24871	Thank you. Dear representative. Prior to that, the replica of the respected representativeplatnimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24872	Well, I can't agree with my colleague that local self-government units can bring completely autonomous protection and rescue plans. This de jure is because representative bodies bring in protection and rescue plans, however, these protection and rescue plans must work for authorised persons and must work for people who recognise what degree of threat it is, which specifically means that we banalise the matter. It is impossible that in the north-west part of Croatia where you come from and where the river Drava unit of local self-government located on the river Drava says there is no danger of flooding, which you interpret as a representative body might say. Or it's impossible for a colleague, Kolar, in his municipality of Molva, to say that there is no danger that the gas field of Molva explodes. And of course he has to when he estimates there's such a danger they have to secure in his budget the money for it. It will not be a problem for him because he has a rent but the city of Djurdjevac, which is just as far or equally close to Molvi, will be a big problem because he has no money to provide, in accordance with such an assessment, only a sufficient number of protection masks for the citizens of Djurdjevac. And civil protection is not going to transfer anything from the MUP to the new administration anyway because the vast majority of civil protection funds do not exist. So, I believe or fear that almost no protection mask that currently exists in civil protection warehouses is in functional use, let alone that we have enough for example for citizens who might be at risk by an incident in the gas field of Moldova. So there's one danger here just to say ok. The units of local self-government will bring it in autonomously but they must make an actual assessment rather than an assessment of how it will suit them according to their budget options.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24873	Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24874	Now, I'm going to answer to my dear colleague, Mrjic, who, of course, I don't agree with a lot of things and not just about this law, which makes sense. So, that these small units of local self-government and some bigger ones like the town of Koprivnica will not only deura but also de facto do well to do these plans and, of course, provide sources of funding because we will not now spread the subject and talk about each of our own, we will solve it at the county level and I assume that the Drava River is not only running by one municipality. So, that the Drava River will be county to say so protected from possible floods and so far we have not had such difficult cases. Of course, if we have to talk about our county this publicly, but therefore that the de facto small municipalities as well as urban plans and everything that they had not had experts in their heads to finance and I dare say that making plans of potential threats is much cheaper than making other documents that local units had to pay and also have some professional people. And as for civil protection, if there is no money, but there are, therefore, already certain to say the documentation bases that will be entered, so there will be no paying and making new ones. And I hope that the town of Koprivnica with that will have the least of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24875	And another replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24876	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, the subject is similar. An esteemed colleague said local self-government is getting a nice and wide autonomy in which it can do anything. That's exactly what I'm afraid of. I mean, with that autonomy, it doesn't work out what autonomy does. Autonomy follows the money. In fact, the obligations of local self-government and even those with considerable budgets are now being spent less on this plan. Why? Because the services operating on the plan were under the authority of the ministries and the plans were worked at the state-level ministry and only a small part of the money was spent at the level of local self-government. Now and this is not the first case responsibility and jobs are transferred to local self-government, but when we propose and the HNS has put such a proposal in the procedure to change the way in which the income tax or income tax is paid, it is rejected with disgust. Therefore, the possibility of decentralisation is rejected but the possibility of decentralised is naturally accepted in a warm manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24877	Thank you. Reply to the replica respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24878	So I will not go beyond Articles 28 and 29 in my replica, and once again, if we have not read just read article 28 in Chapter III. where he says "the rights and obligations of the body of the unit of local and regional and regional self-government" and says paragraph 1. "In the exercise of the rights and obligations in the field of protection and rescue of the representative body of the unit of local and regional self-government at least once a year or in the adoption of the budget, they consider the state of protection and rescue and provide guidance for the organisation and development of the protection and rescue system in their area, determine the source and way of financing of the protection system, adopt the assessment of the threat, adopt general acts that prescribe measures and carry out other protection and rescue activities" we still have. Thus, it does not say that someone orders them to do so but to bring it to their representative body, of course, on the proposal of their headship. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24879	Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24880	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The system of protecting and saving people and property is a significant link to the stability of every country, contributing to its reputation in the world. Protection and rescue is an unsustainable civilization reach of a society and a prerequisite for the international compatibility of the Republic of Croatia, which is very important if we bear in mind Croatia's desire to become a member of the European Union and of the Euro-Atlantic Security and Military Association. It is important that the service of protection and rescue act uniquely, to unite all potentials of protection and rescue, to exploit all human and material potentials, to achieve uniform management at national, regional and local level. That's exactly what this bill of law is about. Today’s situation is an example of what a system of protection and rescue should not be. Here's what we got today. Civil protection is inert, there is no law, almost not to be invested in training and equipment, apart from the intelligence centre there are no conditions for regular monitoring of the situation on the ground. Information centres have, after the end of the Homeland War, made a significant contribution, of course, to their own purpose. They're currently in the Department of Defense, but no specific assignments. Firemen are a significant potential, but they can't find their part in this problem. They have failed to build their fire structure to the end in the interests of volunteering, professionalism and state fire work through the Ministry of the Interior. Saving at sea is what the state has managed to do in the framework of regulations governing safety at sea. All assets have so far not been coordinated from the unique centre of protection and rescue. There is, of course, an emergency medical service operating under the Ministry of Health. The Mountain Rescue Service, with all associations of citizens, is the most prominent in actions of protection and rescue, and especially in rescue in outside urban areas. So far, they have been the most involved in the protection and rescue actions as an intervention unit and civil protection. In many cases their activity was of a prompt character and such activity inevitably requires partial professionalisation. The number of accidents outside urban areas is growing year after year as a result of changes in the lifestyle and movement of modern tourism towards more active facilities in open space such as hunting, hiking, diving, paragliding, dragoning, rafting, etc. There is no law on protection and rescue that feels the most about those who directly implement protection and rescue actions. All listed elements of the system as well as others who also operate in the service of protection and rescue already have their own internal and international rules of procedure. Finally, they're already doing it actively. All they need is a common framework that will make it regular for them to eat and cooperate. The team could immediately, without a time-free walk, go into joint procedures or coordinate or stalking existing procedures, harmonize training programmes and others. Costs would also be reduced after the law has been passed and all available resources have been imported which, as I have already cited, have been fragmented and operated through several ministries, costs will be reduced and efficiency will increase unmistakably. Connecting all entities operating in the protection and rescue system will avoid both human and material losses. Unfortunately, there are several examples when there was a delay in reporting an accident or waiting for permission to take off the helihoptera and a few hours after the valuable time was lost and the medical attention was not needed in time, so the person became disabled or even killed because of the injuries he sustained. This Law seeks, among other things, to establish a single coordinated system in which all these factors have been involved that have so far acted in different ways in the process of protection and rescue but have been unrelated, fragmented by different ministries, and have often been buried in their responsibilities and not known what is in whose jurisdiction it is. Sanctions for not implementing the law are also established because units of local administrations and self-government do not usually bear any consequences for the non-implementation of the laws of established actions and measures. Because, as the Proposer himself found in the opening part of this proposal for a law, the issue of the means necessary to implement certain measures and actions in order to protect and rescue are based on the judgment of the existing dangers and on the awareness that local and regional authorities responsible for their constituents have been elected. And due to the lack of the possibility of functioning for non-compliance with the legal provisions in most units of local and regional self-government, neither the most necessary safeguards are provided. This only raises the question of how they, these legal provisions, will respect those municipalities that, because of their small wakes, cannot finance a part of their obligations, cannot even finance some, some of the basic funding they have under the legal provisions. This Law also provides for the establishment of a unique notification system, which is the 112s Centre, which is an easy number for citizens and can be easily typed into the phone keyboard in the dark. Without it, there is no quality comprehensive, efficient and fast system of accident and accident reports. This Law should be a platform on which other legal and sublegal acts should be built. Thus, a law on civil protection, a law on fire, a law on mountain rescue service, which is the only one in the whole system so far has not been regulated by any legal acts and has not found its place in the state budget. Sub-legislative law enforcement acts should also be adopted, i.e. the establishment of a administration, rules should be laid down to regulate training, equipment, financing and others. This Law would be much easier to discuss if we had before them a whole package of these laws and post-legal acts stemming from this Law as a roof law, because it is the only way we could see how the Government is considering the operation of the system of protection and rescue as a whole. And ultimately, the system of protection and rescue should be unique, it should unite all the potentials of society, and everyone in it should find their place and role. The system of protection and rescue is being built long-term and planned using all of the country's human and material capabilities. For this reason, I join those who advocate this Law to go to another reading because this way the Proposer would have enough time to include in the Law the remarks made in today’s debate. In this way surely the final text of the law would be much more quality than this proposal that is before us. There I would disagree with counterpart Puljic, who said, concluded that the fact that the law was not passed in order to lead to the blockade of the project. If it is so important that this Law be passed as soon as possible then we remember that a few months ago it seems to me to be in the procedure of the Protection and Rescue Act, the Proposer was HSS, the Club of HSS, and if we compare one and another Law, I really don't understand why the Government then refused this Bill proposal, because it seems to me that he was both more quality and more comprehensive than this, but there is a repeat of that old practice that actually the government of apriori refuses everything that the opposition gives as proposals of the law, I think that on several occasions we have said that this is a bad practice because in this way it is a waste and valuable time, it is a waste and an energy and I think that we are all here at work together and we all aim to make the laws that this Assembly be as high-quality and to the benefit of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24881	Thank you. Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24882	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected gentlemen from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, protection and rescue of the population and material goods requires increasing attention from all the structures of society. The development of human society also increases the dangers of natural and technical and technological disasters with catastrophic consequences. We all know that. If we consider war destruction, and most of all possible terrorist dangers, we are witnessing that these accidents are getting more and more every day and there are no completely safe zones, and then what's stopping us, the rest? There is nothing else down there to organize ourselves in a way that prevents as effective as possible these disasters, or in a situation where they occur so that we can eliminate these dangers effectively. And it's good that in this House we bring this law on search and, on protection and rescue, but it's not good to bring it in an emergency procedure just a month before we should start a new service, and that's what the key remarks are to the legislator of this law because working this quickly even though time has been enough from a number of amendments that have already been submitted and which I'm going to try to suggest is that there's plenty of room for this law to be improved. After the meeting of the Croatian Parliament, as we heard in early March, the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Construction and Part-Corruption of Ministrys and State Administrations, which, in fact, established the State Rescue Authority, was adopted, it was clear to all that it was necessary to adopt a Rescue Act which would regulate and regulate the area of protection and rescue in the Republic of Croatia as an area of special importance and interest. The law on protection and rescue is a law that is essential to us in Croatia and should be a law that unites all entities in the protection and rescue and into a single and efficient system. I am convinced that even today all of our services in the Republic of Croatia that are engaged in protecting and saving their tasks are carrying out extremely responsible, professionally and self-absorbed exposure often and by sacrificing and their own lives in order to help other lives, and for example, we have in the Pula area two years ago, unfortunately, an example of a fireman who saved the life of a drowned man and all of these services should be recognized. If there were errors and objections from wider layers, then it was primarily related to a system of coordination among different rescue entities. It is important to me that the legislator makes it clear that this does not affect the jurisdiction of the existing institutions involved in the rescue. For me here is a significant service of search and rescue at sea, and it would not be good if it were so for my colleague Puljic, arguing on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, stated that the number of 9155 has finally entered the air, I would say in, in chips of people, all those who are at sea and were, it would not be appropriate to come because it is the number of national centres for search and rescue operations at sea, and by introducing this unique number 112, of course he will enter through the time period and practice will go his way. But it wouldn't be good to cancel, I believe that this number won't be abolished as well as those other numbers 92, 93, 94 and so on. And I would not agree with these, and in some discussions, it was that the search and rescue services at sea included in this national protection and rescue administration because this service was carrying out international obligations that the Republic of Croatia had undertaken by ratifying the International Convention on the Protection and Rescue at sea, and I believe from reason that I did not get that impression. However, I am convinced that the search and rescue service at sea remains with the present structure, i.e. my desire to form a coast guard in Croatia as soon as possible, in which the search and rescue service will be incorporated. Now to say, it's spoken and it's coming to the opposition that it's blocking actually one significant project. It's just not true. Since the third month, it's been time for that law to be passed. I would remind myself that there were three opposition laws on protection and rescue in the procedure and there was time to really propose a quality law. Eight months were available and there would be no dissatisfaction in certain strukutres, which today, for example, are in the information centres where the fate is in some way 510 employees. To remind you that in these centres, there are many of them who are officers and officers of the Croatian Army who are coming out of the MORH system with this bill of law. I would like to remind that some of them are at these centres, which are placed on the basis of their own requirements, but also many of them, based on the need for service and have played a very important role and of course are concerned about their destiny, and that this law did not go into the procedure of urgency, but in one debate through the first reading, there would be opportunities and time for those who are otherwise and life-interested, and the only thing I can do at the moment is to appeal to take care of what was left of my colleague Lucin speaking on behalf of the SDP Club and to point out these problems that would arise and that it was not, that he went to one regular procedure, I think that this could have been avoided. And the bottom line is what I'm trying to say, and that's the question of civil service. Now that a new Protection and Rescue Act is adopted, which is also the basis for setting up a Protection and Rescue Administration, it is unacceptable that the place within the protection and rescue system has not been given civil service bonds that are very high potential because their number is greater than 50% of the annual recruiting contingent, or young men becoming military bonds. It is good that for several reasons, the Republic of Croatia has led to positive European and world practice and has made civil service laws possible, however, we know what it looks like in practice today. They're being deployed to certain places, I have to shorten, and I think it would be more appropriate for this law, and right now, I suggest to Mr. Secretary of State that the Government intervene with its own amendment in Part 4 of the rights and obligations of the participants in the protection and rescue and that this law resolves the deployment of military debtors with... the consciences and their training and training for the needs of the Protection and Rescue Administration, and established, for such an attitude, is also included in Article 47. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and I think it would be for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24883	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24884	The esteemed colleague misquoted a part of my exposure. I didn't use the word "resect." However, when it comes to practice and numbers used for emergency interventions so far, I have set an example abroad, in Europe where, in parallel, 112 and all other numbers are used in one transitional period. For our situation, I hope, unlike you, that we will gradually come to a total integration and the service of this search and rescue at sea. And I think it's a good thing and it's going to make one wider use that's simpler when only 112 is one unique number of answers to all situations. It's certainly a citizen's much more convenient, especially when they come here when that number is the key to opening all the locks and activating the help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24885	Thank you very much. State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, here's only one thing to explain these things about taking over employees since it has been mentioned several times. Article 62 and 63 of this Act states that all the employees of the MORHA and the MUPA who have been assigned to these tasks which are now taking over this new administration will be taken over. It is also said that they will have their own protection under the law on civil servants and tenants. There were questions whether there would be extra employees by all calculations of extra employees would not be. Here it is said in the introduction, i.e., that all 510 employees of the MORHA will be taken over and are mainly employees of the Monitoring and Notification Centre and about 300 members of the MUPA primarily from the administration and for the protection and rescue of the Department of Fire and Civil Protection. As far as this training is concerned, these workers who are to be provided will have to further improve and educate, to work on this new equipment and with these resources. This is also addressed in Article 46 of the Law, where it is prescribed that training and training of operational powers for protection and rescue are carried out by administrations and other legal persons. The Director-General shall also prescribe programmes and ways to train and improve the methods and conditions of the knowledge verification and so on. So we took care of the need for further education and training of these workers. And what you can't see, but we've seen that too, and in that new Protection and Rescue Authority, it's also going to be a school of protection and rescue. Where all employees, where appropriate, will be referred to additional training and training. And it will be open to other builders who feel the need, a desire to further educate themselves to work in their local environments. So that question is settled. And all personnel and observation and intelligence centres and the MUPA, or, civil protection departments, the fire department, will be taken over. The rights acquired so far will be protected by the law on civil servants and tenants. And also around these numbers, these numbers won't go out, and eventually this number 112 will be imposed as the most recognizable. But we have no intention of shutting down any institution that has proved to be good in its work so far and which has effectively participated in the area it has covered. So we are aware that we will have to further clarify after the adoption of the law to the public, in order to get to know the news, and that is exactly what is planned for us to meet the public and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the new system that has been established. And new opportunities to be put before the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24887	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The individual debate is ongoing. Ljubica Lalić's representative, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24888	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The organisation of the state for the defence and protection of its inhabitants is primarily the security and economic issue of the state. During the Homeland War especially in 1993 in Croatia at the Ministry of Defence developed an effective system of protection and rescue of the inhabitants of goods and the environment in extraordinary conditions in war and peace. And it was conducted on a model model that was then represented by experts from the United States and advocated the NATO alliance. In early 1994, the system was torn down and has not been fully established, although some of its parts still have positive effects. Since this system has been torn down to date in Croatia, an appropriate risk analysis has not been established for all types of natural and technological crises. Not on county or state level. There is neither appropriate legislation with well-defined obligations nor responsiveness of all participants in the system of protection and rescue, and in particular an organisation to manage the system. There isn't even a design organization for all the participants. No unique communication system has been established, there are no adequate databases on all available resources of the system of protection and rescue for conditions where necessary. In addition to the above, there are no plans for action in the event of a crisis. Management in crises or emergency situations is one of the most complex human activities and is not easy to implement. Because of this complexity, it is necessary to build a system that has its foothold in the law. Aware of the necessity of the law as a prerequisite for the establishment of the system, this Parliament discussed in a previous two-reading term the bill, which was almost identical to the proposal before us. The parties to that position wanted better regulation of the relationship proposed and had the courage to refer them to the draft law in the third reading exclusively with the desire to find the best solutions. The opposition at the time, and today's position, opposed the establishment of a state administration to protect and rescue the confidence of powers but also to seek the responsibility of units of local and regional self-government. In March this year, this House discussed a proposal for a law on protection and rescue proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party's Representatives Club. All clubs that participated in the debate pointed to the need to pass laws because it is inadmissible that there is no regulated system in Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia opposed the adoption of the HSS proposal by explaining. I'm quoting. "The completion of the draft rescue bill is under way, which will be referred by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the parliamentary procedure, in line with the operational plan for 2004 in the first quarter of this year." It's a finished quote. As the opinion was written on 17 March 2004, we expected the government's proposal by the end of the month at the latest. However, this did not happen as the government itself said in the first trimester but waited for the last one and now we are discussing the proposal in an emergency procedure. Describing his proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure, therefore, the opposition to be taken by the government's urgent procedure in an explanation. I quote." The State Administration for Protection and Rescue was established, starting from 1.1.2005, after being said until 1.1. In 2005, it is also necessary to pass a law on protection and rescue that would surround the legal framework for the functioning of the protection and rescue system." It's a finished quote. This is the government's explanation for why it proposes to bring this proposal to the government in an urgent procedure. Formally and legally, there is no business reason for emergency procedures, and that's what the government thought when she explained the proposal to reject the HSS proposal and then she said no. I quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes that the proposal go into regular adoption procedures. The system of protection and rescue is a system that does not suffer sudden changes, and that is why it is necessary to carefully consider the text of the law before it is adopted in order to become the basis for a quality reorganisation of the system of protection and disaster rescue." It's a finished quote. And we agreed to that, and we accepted that. However, the government has now changed its mind. In that part of our opinion with the Government, we have fully agreed, but the government has changed its mind in the meantime and has clearly no longer insisted that the proposal be considered in detail. It is aggravating circumstance that the bill proposed by the Croatian Peasants' Club is conceptually identical both to the proposal we discussed in the previous term and to the proposal proposed by the Croatian Peasant Party Club. Even more not only conceptually but in most parts of the text is identical. A wise promoter would use all the remarks that were made in earlier discussions, and the differences in concepts would be overcome by finding a new model. It didn't happen here. The State Department for Protection and Rescue was founded, suggesting the former opposition, and the current position gave up its fundamental objection that it was against law-making. Is it possible that the time has already expired? Something's wrong with the watch. Let me just finish for a little while, with the clock obviously something's wrong, because I know how long I'm having discussions. So, I don't doubt that Parliament, that the majority will pass this law, but I want to show fear that we will have another law that will not be brought to life in a unique way throughout the Republic of Croatia, and not enough, has not worked hard enough to find solutions that would even the practice and theory. Madam Vice President, please check the clock, because I know how long my discussions are going on. It doesn't matter to me, but I don't want other colleagues to be denied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24889	Thank you very much. Technical services will do that part of the job. Thanks for the suggestion. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24890	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Convince us and the public of the meaning of the rescue, protection and rescue service, of course, is not necessary, but when we look at it that way, then this Law really needs to be observed with very critical eyes. Why? According to logic, we should today establish a legal framework for the creation of a legal basis for the development of a system of protection and rescue, and this system should enable the Republic of Croatia to use them better and more efficiently, now says resources, rescue facilities, for protection and rescue throughout the Republic of Croatia. I especially stress this, in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because the law must regulate coordination in preparation and in risk assessments. It is a purpose to know, in panic and catastrophes, how all parts of the protection and rescue system should be handled in advance. If that's not foreseen by law and it's precise that all the participants and when they wake up, or how they used to say it, when an alarm is made, they don't know by heart, there can be panic, and it's not an ally of protection and rescue. Another task is to edit planning in a unique and equal manner. Planning and evaluation. And the third thing is that we certainly know who, with what and when he commands and who can activate the system. At the local level, and if it is not activated at local level, who above that can activate, because it has failed in one part and whose responsibility is 1st degree and 2nd degree. The downside of this legal project is that it does not include a very important segment, and it is an emergency medical aid. We have insufficient capacity here. She's now territorially decorated. So there are atoms, borders where an individual emergency health care facility works, no matter who is closer and who would be more effective. And the purpose of organisation of the system is to effectively use capacities regardless of the territorial structure. That's not what the law says. The Law then incorrectly regulates the use and operation or execution of jobs for the interests of the mountain rescue system. Simply, that service cannot work if it is not trained. She cannot rely on a service that is actually an association of citizens without the system giving her assignments regardless of whether or not disaster occurred. That's not what the law predicts. In connection with the adoption of an assessment and coordination. The legislative proposal provides quite well that the co-ordination of preparations is in state, state administration, which is quite all right, but to determine the threat assessment and to adopt a plan, the government cannot be excluded and one state administration cannot be in charge of the ministry. I am saying this because I also said it on the Legislative Committee, and that the Law is impeccable, that is also the conclusion, that is, of which the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament has laid down on this final text of the bill, which means 67 articles, which is only 1/3 of the quality and solves the essence, so matter, we have 67 observations of the Committee on Law. 67 objections from the Legislative Committee. Therefore, the Legislative Committee itself notes that the normative arrangement is not accurate, that the system will not work. In other words, normative optimism does not mean that the system is in place. This indeed raises the problem referred to in Article 31, 32, 33 concerning the command of certain parts of the protection and rescue system, especially when the military is engaged. The explanation that the military is engaged and that the legal engagement of the military and other regulations is not disputed and no one disputes it, thank God that we will use all resources to strengthen protection and rescue and the military. But the question is who makes the decision to engage the army and who commands the army. That's the question. Because the Constitution defines it and the law can't change it. The law cannot change who commands the army. Well, of course it should be used, thank God and those who were before me that those military bonds that would serve the civilian deadline should indeed be used for the purposes of civil protection. Absolutely. That's what I was already saying in the past system during the same debate. One more thing, I think, is that it's very inaccurate and very important, and there could be abuse and very bad consequences. Article 1 states that this law limits the right of ownership. So we find that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is protection and rescue in disasters, etc. and that the restrictions on ownership can only last as long as such conditions last and it must be written in law and in this law. If that doesn't say we could charge today to any legal, any natural persons, so entrepreneurs, craftsmen to get their, their assets, their capital employed for the needs of the system. It's just not possible. It's just not possible. Article 31 speaks of an assessment of the threat. It's not possible to assess work without a government decision. Of course, all participants in the protection and rescue must carry out an assessment for their area and area, but the government must unite the assessment and adopt a plan, simply because the general responsibility of the Government is for the situation in all areas in the Republic of Croatia. General, constitutional. Constitutional responsibility. In Article 32, the Heads of Central Authorities shall be responsible for the administration. It's not possible. Simply, the ministers are responsible to the government and this Parliament. For this reason, I appeal once again, or if already the proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia points out to the observations of the Legislative Committee so that all MPs can responsibly assess whether this is mature for adoption in one reading or to vote for another reading. Therefore, it is now up to the applicant to take note of the observations before the vote on the final draft of the law concerning the observations of committees and working bodies and MPs in order to prepare, prepare for the vote, and finally say, and when the remarks are adopted, this legislative text, its scope will be to establish a state administration and then to set up a system of protection and rescue in walking, as it is said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24891	Thank you very much, colleague. I must inform you that with the clock and the time measurement everything is in order, technical services say. After your debate, fellow MP, State Secretary Ivica Buconjic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24892	Thank you very much, Madam President. Here's a quick answer to Mr. Lecki. Namely, Article 24f of the Internal Affairs Act is also prescribed that the Government adopts a plan, here I will read it to you in order not to reinterpret it freely, Article 24.f says: "The government of the Republic of Croatia brings to the proposal of the Minister of Interior a plan of protection and rescue for the territory of the State", and in paragraph 3 says, "The plans of protection and rescue are being developed on the basis of the methodology established by the Minister of Interior". And the methodology is the same. There's a rule on methodology, but I wouldn't want to bother you with that right now, and we mostly didn't think there was any need for what the current Internal Affairs Act already says and the methodology rule to put you into the law because it clearly states that the government is bringing in a plan, a plan for protection and rescue. And as far as I'm concerned, you've made 62 remarks to the Legislative Committee. We got them relatively late, but based on what I heard on the board, we checked them out, and we're sure to take them seriously because there are some observations that were actually founded there, but most of these remarks refer to some, most of them nomotechnical. I think you'll agree that one good part of these remarks is the nomotechnical nature until nowhere questions the concept itself and the essential provisions of the bill itself. In any case, we will carefully consider them, and at the end of this debate, we will propose how to resolve this situation to really show that we are serious and that we want to pass a law that is really good and good. And as for this, this thesis that's been going through, that we've been waiting for eight, nine months. Namely, the adoption of a series of documents of importance for the Republic of Croatia is under way, and so is the Ministry of Defence, where it brings its very important acts, and we have waited simply for the Ministry of Defence to wait, but we have talked to them, to coordinate our views on this important matter, so that there is no overlapping of jurisdiction or that there is no other case, that neither in our documents nor in the acts of the Ministry of Defence. There is no Ms. Lalic, therefore, we have not waited nine months, nor lost nine months, but over the past eight months with all the interested ministries and central authorities of the state administration we have conducted consultations on how best, best quality and in a legal and constitutional way to adopt a proposal for this law. Eight months have not been lost because we have already prepared the Civil Protection Act, we have also prepared the Fire Department, we have prepared the Internal Design Regulation, we have prepared a program of work of universities that will be very quickly resuscitated so that these eight months are certainly not lost because we have done a number of very extensive and high-quality other jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24893	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We're moving on with an individual discussion. Representative Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24894	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State. I believe that the foundation of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue as well as the very near adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act as a roof law is the beginning of an organised structure of a large and important system. I said start. What are the problems in the Republic of Croatia today regarding protection and rescue? They primarily refer to insufficient coordination between the important authorities of the state administration when it comes to disasters of different causes. Simply this coordination is extremely important, it determines the speed of reaction to possible disasters, it determines the efficiency of the system and determines the efficiency of the system in many other aspects. This is why today's existing structure does not satisfy the needs, and fortunately we can be happy that there were no major scales that would show weaknesses in the existing structure, and so I would say, the bells are ringing, the last hour is to launch the structure of a structured serious system that will be able to face possible incidents or as this is said today by this new nomenclature of factors, not only in the Republic of Croatia but also abroad, because it is part of aid and is part of international obligations, I will talk about it later. Certainly inter-minor cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, co-operation with local self-government bodies, their responsibility, but certainly only some important issues require an answer primarily in the structure of the future state administration. Of course, what it's going to look like, it doesn't matter. How this organisational scheme will be realized, which people will be banned, whether people with knowledge, experience and ability to function effectively not only in coordination but what is particularly important when possible disasters occur, because then the system takes on quite different ways of behaviour and I will also say something more about it a little later. Equipment. The equipment of such a large system I'll say may be an exaggeration, but I'd say not too much. The equipment of such a system is as complex as the equipment of today's Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, above all because we have limited resources in the state budget, and unfortunately the system of planning is not to the extent that it should be and I will say the same thing a little bit later. Training. This is about education. I'd say there's no education here, it's about training and training and it needs to be stressed. Certainly education at some levels, yes, but efficiency, ability, speed of reaction, the effectiveness of this system will be determined in addition to the choice of people, in addition to the appropriate equipment, quality training with a number of appropriate stationary moments and in addition to this school you spoke of, will also need to consider setting up an appropriate national training centre as regards disaster management. Furthermore, the coordination system is probably the dominant task of this state administration for protection and rescue. Coordination is important, but one moment when disaster occurs then such a system I would say transforms, I will not say in military, but in a semi-military organization where its way of command and operation is significantly different. The doctrine of functioning in such conditions is something to develop, something to work on and we haven't heard about it today, but certainly since this is the beginning then we can rightly hope that in the coming period we will see certain steps and certain results on all these important things. Finance. Finance is particularly important because they determine to what extent such a law, or to what extent this administration will be able to accomplish its tasks with its tasks. You have highlighted here some items relating to available, i.e. funds that will need to be allocated. 300 employees of the MUP and 510 employees of the MORH in this report say it will cost 80 million kuna for their salaries. It's not small funds, but when you look at the structure of your budget then it's a dominant item and then in the structure of the budget of that administration we'll have something similar that we have in the budget structure of the Ministry of Defence, we'll pay people and we'll almost have no means of operating costs and we won't have the means to modernise and technical equipment and similar things are repeated to us and I'd say in many similar actions when we need to structure some new bodies. This is a new administration, a new administrative organisation that will require new objects that it will need to use and adapt to function. That's the item in your budget. Furthermore, the space for the victims, the investment in equipment and the means to take care of people who can be left without their apartments and the resources you have predicted are really small. A few words about center 112. The provision of the relevant communication, information infrastructure of the centre is far more expensive and difficult to do than is stated in these items you planned. With 25 million, 23 million, 16 million, you're almost not going to be able to do much of it in the coming years unless it succeeds, and I recommend that we really qualify for these pre-accession funds and try to find not only financial resources but help with the material equipment of this system. Certainly the system of planning, management and programming of the budget I said, shows the difficulties that such a body will have in the future. You were still talking here about the task force. The structure of the operational forces is almost similar to what we are doing today in the MAP programme when it comes to the structure of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. A very complex, very difficult and very important task, to have the right measure, and the right measure means to bring good needs into line with limited resources especially at local level, which today was much more than a word. The operational force consists of the service and writes here to units, legal entities and bodies of the state administration that are engaged in the protection and rescue of their regular activities, and then fire departments, units, etc. To establish the standards of operational procedures is very important, to develop doctrines are also I would say important tasks. I'm going to point out maybe just because I see the weather running out quickly. The international aspect and international obligations of this new state administration. In line with the 99th NATO strategic concept that... management identifies as one of NATO's key security tasks, I would say the Republic of Croatia is aware of its responsibilities and obligations because perhaps before many others we were faced with a form of terrorism that today may be increasingly relevant. Let's not forget 1995, let's not forget Kutin, let's not forget the organized terrorism that aimed at causing an ecological disaster of huge proportions. So on these facts, in our recent history, we must build a truly quality and effective system. Furthermore, the Euro-Atlantic Centre for the Co-ordination of Responses to catastrophes is an important institution because the Republic of Croatia participates and must participate in the work of this institution. And in the end, I'll say next. We need reading first, second, third, fifth and tenth, but I certainly think it's very important to conclude that this is a good start and that we should start with a concrete job as soon as possible. The completion of this law will first and foremost be on the agenda of integration. It is unacceptable that searching and saving is not an integral part of this system and...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24895	A fellow representative of the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24896	...that integration and strengthening and upgrading of this system in organisational and any other sense is a task that will require years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24897	Thank you. The next one is representative Ruza Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24898	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. What we all agree with, I suppose, is that we should have one unique crisis center, or one unique phone number in which all the information about all types of crisis situations would flow, but to form one such unique center, it's only part of the job. The main part is the reaction to this information, and that reaction requires resources in a defined mode of response. Because different crisis areas have different needs. Take the coasts and the islands. Those of us living there, especially on the islands, are very interested in this law because quick notification and a unique way of reacting would improve the quality of life on islands and coasts, especially when it comes to health care, fire protection, environmental incident, and car and work accident. It's not the same to react to the crisis situation on the island or, say, in Karlovac. Imagine a situation where a group of tourists climb a hill on an island. There's information coming that they haven't returned to the hotel. The Information Centre informs the City Rescue Service, the Mountain Service, which is volunteering out on the ground with the equipment they bought themselves, find tourists and institutions that one of them fell and broke his arm and leg, and has internal bleeding. I mean, he needs an emergency operation, so he needs a helicopter. The C.I.D. can't order the helicopter to arrive because the helicopter is in the custody of the Department of Defense. The Department of Defense says they have a helicopter, but he can't take off because he's missing parts. The mountain service somehow manages to bring the wounded down, and contact the Ministry of Health for the infirmary. Unfortunately, the infirmary is gone because it's somewhere on land, on its way to Dubrovnik with a patient. The mountain service somehow manages to get the wounded to shore and invites the speedboat to take him to the mainland. The M.O.P. responds to having a speedboat, but it's somewhere on the patrol at sea, and it takes two or three hours to get back. Until then, the wounded man either died or wished he had died. Unfortunately, this isn't some fictional or isolated story, this happened, after all, with a happy ending, but the tourist swore he'd never walk into the island again. Unfortunately, for us islanders it is a luxury because we live on the island and it is a daily lifestyle, especially at this time of year when many people get hurt when picking olives. This is all I'm saying to prove that the crisis headquarters can't react properly in a crisis situation because it depends on multiple ministries or command lines. The existence of a single crisis information centre is, however, a certain improvement, but if it cannot have a unique reaction and manage it from one center, then unfortunately for saving property and life it means absolutely nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24899	Thank you very much, colleague. Let's move on with the debate. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24900	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, if I'd made a deal with my colleague, Rose, you wouldn't have made a better deal. What she was saying is what I wanted to talk about because really when we talk about the Mountain Rescue Service, it's about heroes, volunteers. We all agree, here's me in Dalmatia, these people who put their lives to death, etc., and you see what she just said is something that happened in reality. Our main problem is how to avoid such situations by law. It seems to me, therefore, that this law does not solve the issues or the training of these people. I mean, training people right in helicopters, how to solve problems related to everything that's been going on in practice, and it seems to me that all of us, I don't want to exclude anyone here, and it's guilty of not respecting the value of that service and everything these people have done so far. To them, for example, the problem was how to raise one helicopter in the first place, in any way. And I say once again, a particular question and training in those helicopters, and we know that in Slovenia, let's say, in our neighbouring Slovenia, after a tragedy occurred when three people died, then it was very soon resolved. Let's not wait for that because these people really save other people's lives in the most selfless way, and I've kind of gotten a big part of it so that, hopefully, on behalf of all of us and thanked these people for what they've been doing and how they've been doing so far. And not to say in the summer what's at sea, what's on the islands, what's in our mountains by the sea, paragliding, climbing, climbing, climbers, amateurs, amateurs, non-amateurs, free climbing, sailboats, sailors attracted to a variety of hundred wonders. In all these actions, they were actually the only ones besides our police and firemen you could rely on, and I say, they were often in the most deadly situations. I am therefore a little surprised what Article 26 says in general in the preparation and implementation of activities and measures in the protection and rescue are required to participate in the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, the Croatian Red Cross, therefore, the Fire Community, the Community of Technical Culture, the Kinological, the Spenological and other associations. It seems to me that it's all kind of crowded here, in the same rank it put no one down, no one's value, all of it somehow put on a pile. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to what we all know about Croatia's mountain rescue service and everything they've done and it seems to me that we should come in one more effective way. It seems to me that it's a little bit generally solved here, in this rescue system, and that it allows them, therefore, from safe training to helicopter problems, to no longer be. And there's something else I'd like to say, so I'll finish. Article 3 refers to the concepts used in this law. I think it must change anyway, I don't know who you're consulting, linguists, I have no idea. But you see, it starts with an accent. Accident is an accident, etc. Then you have an incident, an accident is an accident, so on and so forth. Then you have an accident, an accident is an event and so on. It may seem irrelevant to someone, but let's just say the accent is essentially an accident. This is tautology. An accident is an accident that is tied up, and I don't think it just stands logically or linguistically. I have no idea, let's try to solve it in the spirit of Croatian. But, therefore, the accent, therefore, on the English acid and what I know, that I'm not saying now what we all know, is therefore an accident, it's conductable as an accident. The accident is an accident, so it goes on. The incident was an accident, and the accident was defined as such. No matter what this one does, this seems irrelevant, one of the most important things in the law is that they are precise. That the termology, therefore, should be in a sense stable, that the termology does not wander, does not linger around so that they can be able to get along in the text later on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24901	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Agent Lucin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24902	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Jurevic everything he said about the Mountain Rescue Service, but there is one solution. There is, therefore, a solution although this law stipulates that a special Law on the service of mountain rescue will be passed. I would suggest at least that the weight of that service be given to mention in Article 7 where operational forces are mentioned, with fire units, civil protection, mountain rescue services. Here's an appeal to the promoter, I don't mean to take the amendment, but perhaps it wouldn't be bad for the government to put the mountain rescue service as an operational force for the rescue and protection service in its amendment to Article 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24903	Thanks a lot, buddy. Col. Jurjevic did not report for reply to the replica. Let's move on, MP Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24904	Thank you, Madam President. I would refer to this legislative proposal, from one aspect I hold very important, and in any case, my support for this very valuable material that has been tasked with answering all these questions that many have spoken about here and in order to protect and rescue. I would, in fact, concentrate on one item because it is impossible in such complex matter from all aspects to look at and sort of break down that matter, and I would actually judge from the experience of health care a term to deal with this Law. And that's next. The greater benefit to man and the general population is that the people live healthyly, not to smoke and not to get sick, but to all after the procedures being conducted and costing much and best treatment when we already have a problem, then we only remove the consequences, so it's better to prevent, it's better to prevent, therefore, I would speak from the aspect of prevention. The greater the successes in the medical profession, therefore, are based on prevention, rather than on all other medical activities, i.e. people in medicine, and contributed, the greater improvements have been achieved. So I'm devising that term and its explicit mention in this Law, that is, prevention. What is the prevention of an extraordinary event, we're talking about extraordinary events, unwanted events, can we at all prevent, can an earthquake be prevented? Certainly not. However, anything can be done to actually deviating anything that is more effective and more efficient and that the consequences would actually be as little as possible, so I will look back on an article where I want the explicits to be given that term even though it is mentioned but that is how it works to me, by the way, so, in preventing, in preventing these unwanted events, would also include risk breakdowns and real scenarios and the breakdown of the weakness of the system. How else is the policy of acting on extraordinary events, and one of the most preventive procedures is legislation and this law itself is preventive in this regard. I'll get back to that. When it comes to the coordination that my colleague Kreso Ćosic spoke of here very well, then I also emphasise it as very important, and I do not see this law as a matter that will interfere with other already existing matter, meaning elaborated, someone mentioned emergency medical care, and certainly even if it was not explicitly mentioned emergency medical care. Emergency medical attention is performed daily, and they are, for each of these events in a certain way, extraordinary but they are regular, therefore they understand and involve themselves. The task of this law is indeed a combination of all these activities and guidance to one end as best possible with the aim of achieving the best possible results. Then, it is important that this state administration achieves this very effect, which is that, in the regularity of this problem, it achieves a level of success such that, apart from this regular action, it would act as effectively as possible with all other institutions in the system, in the time of the "war" or the crisis situation. Thus, this Law does not undermine experience so far, and as such, it is only necessary to observe it. And also out of duty to other institutions, let's say, directly now when we talk about a health care system that is very important in terms of the factors of this system, of course, that during an extraordinary event, a health care centre that would be at the service of this administration, etc., therefore does not interfere with this Code, and I take all those rights that take the value of this law or cite it as its problems, i.e. as its weaknesses. I would refer to these few articles as much as it allows me time and I would draw attention to them. Let's say, when we're talking about Article 35, I would certainly put one item in the department's business, where this particular administration should actually develop a methodology for collecting information from the field after an extraordinary event occurs, it's very important. Therefore, it is very important to manage information from the field after extraordinary events already occur. Article 6 mentions the basic tasks of the protection system, the prevention of explicits. Then in Article 18 where the tasks of legal persons are discussed, etc., it would be good to say that they are obliged to implement preventive programs in the sense of what I was talking about because then what happened on this ship downstairs would not happen, it would die, because it would stand, for example, that at the time of work on the outside of the hull, no one should stand on the deck. Or if there is already that provision, then it has, in itself, prevented many so far unsolicited outcomes, many more so far. Finally, there is one more thing, and this is in Article 11, where it is said what to do with those who have not responded to the call, then there is the possibility that within three days he has the right to justify his non-refuse, it is inadmissible that period, and by me he needs to change it and put that in fact every person is obliged to respond directly, and if he cannot, then at the same time inform the competent authorities of it and not leave them a period of three days because it is too long in a chain where he is his place, where he is one link, where his participation is very important, his contribution. Here, that was my humble contribution, thank you, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24905	Thank you very much. Next up, Agent Ante Markov, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24906	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. If you are bleeding or in immediate danger, in some unaccessible place in Croatia you are in double trouble. The first reason and first problem is the state you're in, you're hurt, you're life-threatening, and the second is the lack of an organized service that would save you. Despite the increase in the number of accidents in areas outside cities and roads in Croatia, there is still no organised protection and rescue service. However, there are firemen emergency medical care, police, civil protection, a mountainous rescue and search and rescue services at sea. And of course you can call the police, she might send you to an ambulance, mountain service, but what if you landed in a car crash, you were set on fire in some inaccessible plank. How will anyone get to you, regardless of your best intentions? Dangers for all citizens warn of the need for the legal regulation of this type of effective rescue. Your dramatic call for help from a risky situation can wander from one number to another for hours. And it's totally random and sometimes it can come to the right address. Unfortunately, the existing legislation in Croatia still does not see that there is a situation in Croatia where someone dies, remains a permanent invalid or something like that unless someone saves it. He is faced with rescue problems in cases where, in order to save an incurable helicopter, he has sent more letters, and when the instructions to various addresses of such calls must be determined that we do not have a legal regulation that would do this in a way that is clearly prescribed in the law. The public need to protect and save human lives outside urban environments and public roads is a valid reason why the lives of those we save and all others who participate are in direct danger, from those who save, crew, helihoptera etc. But it is also a matter of Croatia's reputation as a courteous state that holds to ethnic principles and international conventions in the obligation to save human lives throughout the national space. Is the task of this bill so that all that has been said may not be like this? Of course, the task of this law is that in case something happened to you that life-threatening was on the mountain, whether it was out of place, it was on the island that by inviting 112 these problems did not exist. That your life if you have conditions to be protected, that prevention should do what must happen. Therefore, we must have both curative and preventive character. Is the adoption of such a proposal of the Law on Protection and Rescue, in this way, removing all that concerns these forms of threat? I'm talking about people first. We did not mention everything else that is the subject of this Law, and I should agree in Article 1 of the Secretary-General's case to be concerned about the environment, nature care, resource care, should be mentioned in Article 1. Of course, however, there is a question that answers that question. Is there sufficient efficiency and integrity of the system that will also act and mobility that each individual case with regard to the threat of an individual, and the issue of nature and wider elemental disasters is something else, a question and a far more serious danger. Let's see how our neighbors are most close to reacting and what mobilizing efficiency is present we will easily see through it a few months ago in our neighbouring Italy, Berlusconi's government because of the danger of terrorism because of the Iraq crisis and stealing piled up problems that didn't have to result exclusively from a terrorist attack, but the state of the psyche of people was such that people needed to guarantee safety and that psychological security in advance through preventive character. And what did they do? What we won't be able to do after this law. They've declared a state of emergency throughout the country. Civil protection was the one who operated on protection, but all the systems in the Italian state were under one command. Under one command, and a decision was made by the government, and everything was led by the prime minister. What's he saying? It says that within two hours of the announcement of the decision, all conditions were created that every piece of Italian territory was at sea, the land was covered. Nothing could have happened without knowing. In other words, there was a system. Unfortunately, there is no such system in this Law. It is not even in the projection of the Coast Guard which is also very beautiful on paper, but consists of such different components that even dear God cannot connect to be effective, and that they do what needs to be done. And this Law does not again put this coast guard in the context of who will guard and who will be responsible for the preventive character of all events on the islands, the sea that my colleague used to say, what Pero was saying, etc. So we can't close our eyes here and bring the law to you for it, it's good to bring it. It didn't come in the last term, there was a third reading, it wasn't brought in for reasons that there were different opinions as there are today, and there are some, and there's good that they exist. But that's no reason not to do something good. As with the Coast Guard if we don't tie it to the Croatian Navy we won't have a significant participant and we won't have a carrier, a carrier who takes over military what he has to do, sail out, no wind that will stop, no helicopters that won't land, no ship that won't come to the destination. No one can do that. It's the army. Everywhere in the world. They are different forms from Turkey, it is a civilian command, but it is the formation of military gentlemen. It's a military facility, and it's a service that works. So we can compare that to a playground where you don't want to take the first team, but ask the guards, the directors and those around you who work to play the game, they'll be around them, and you say they're all numbered. They're numbered, but the game's gonna end badly. So when we build something, when we create something, the task is to make it effective, to be true and to be on time. Because in time, this is the main reason why we do all this, to prevent disasters, to save human lives, and to protect both of them and everything that is the foundation of every country, and that is ultimately the protection of sovereignty, because sovereignty is protected by the citizen, because he is a citizen, in essence, and a holder of sovereignty. Therefore, we must send this law into another reading, we must complete it, and we must talk very openly about it on one example, the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service, how will it respond to the call and start and accomplish its mission and role in the elements of complete matrimonism? It cannot, unless we put it on a fully professional level and, as long as it is not a volunteer set up in some budgets, some municipalities, some units of local self-government, it must be allocated to the funds and the funds must be allocated to it. Therefore, our assignments and the meaning of everything and the meaning of everything we discuss are not differences, are not differences in the concept of what the law is made of. Both HDZ colleagues and colleagues from the SDP and the HSP and the HSS, everyone is looking at this law, I believe, and I'm sure of the same thing. They want efficiency, they want the law to cover what it has not covered yet but also to give the necessary efficiency to the entire system that relies on this very important segment because Croatia will perhaps tomorrow and should strive to become one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24907	A fellow representative, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24908	The Centre for the Protection of the wider area of the Adriatic aquarium, which can only be achieved if it is effective, if the legislative one is aware and there we do not need any laws to teach us what we need to do. We know what to do. Let's do it before the others and show that we can secure the protection system at sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24909	My colleague, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24910	Who will tie everyone else to us and not the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24911	My colleague, are you staying at the replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24912	I'm staying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24913	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24914	A colleague of Mark's who spoke quite this provocatively could replicate a lot of things but I'll just have one tiny detail. Many have asked me to give up, but I can't, it's a mountain rescue service. You have in some way underestimated their present-day effect, which although formed by volunteering is unquestionable and they are certainly able to meet the needs of today. What was problematic by this law was solved, meaning their legal inclusion in the reaction it was solved. And professionalization, maybe it happens once. However, you could be understood as underestimating them in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24915	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24916	Thank you very much. Save it, God.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24917	I was just about to give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24918	Thank you very much, Vice President. God forbid I underestimate those who act very well in the frames, but I was talking about the system and the professional core, and that's very different from what is today. So I don't underestimate them, I want them to have a professional core and to be even better and even more effective and they can do it in view of their efforts where and without sufficient resources represent the important backbone of the present system that is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24919	And also reported is MP Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall, he's losing his word. The debate is over. There are no more reports. So, the closing word, Ivica Buconjic, is the secretary of state. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24920	Thank you very much. Here, since the debate was relatively long but it was useful and fruitful I will try to be brief. I think we were all unique in the assessment that the current situation was not good. We were also unique in the assessment that a new law should be adopted that would create a legislative framework for the establishment of a system that would solve all possible and potential problems and threats in a far more efficient and efficient way. This is precisely the goal of adopting or proposing this law to fix this state for which we are all unanimous that it is not good. I've said it several times and I've drawn it when there was an observation that we lost eight months, that nothing was done that wasn't true. I repeat again other than the draft of this law that should have been agreed with both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance and the Central State Office for the State Administration and with the Ministry of Justice we have done some other and legislative procedures and operational. Legislative procedures were what I had already said I will repeat the proposal of the Civil Protection Act is over, the Fire Law proposal is over, the Internal Design Regulation of the new administration is over and what we have done from the operational and yet a series of accompanying sublegal acts. What we've also done on the operational plan, and here's what I'm going to mention to you, although it's not directly about the law, is that we started a job in the establishment of a helicopter service exactly what we realize is that this is the weakest link in this system that has to be fast and efficient. Unfortunately, the technique in both the MUP and the MORH as regards helicopters and these other means and equipment to be used in these protection and rescue actions is in very poor condition, and that is why I would have dared say step away in the formation and establishment of helicopter services but not only on paper but also about the purchase of ten helicopters of which eight will be in the Protection and Rescue Authority and the two will be in the MUP first and foremost for the control and control of the state border but will also be activated in this Protection and Rescue Authority as appropriate. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, the Coast Guard still doesn't exist. There is a nuclearus of a future service. This is now co-ordination at government level, coordination of several ministries that are competent and participate in these affairs, and this is also one of the reasons why we didn't rush to pass this law. Because this new organisation or coast guard or any other state body that will carry out this job will certainly affect the appearance of this law and the seemingly all operational forces involved in the protection and rescue. Therefore, we also made sure that this possible coast guard had to find its place but it was not yet established. There's a coordination, which she'll grow into we'll see. I would also like to say to Mrs. Tomasic that we have information from Korčula. I think she's from Korčula. If fire protection had been far more effective this year, the mayor of Korčula participated yesterday in the work of the Committee on Local Self-Government and he noted it. And indeed, all the reports show that this year's fire protection was far better, more effective with respect to the fact that years were such that even the climate conditions were on our hands but all the reports of the number of fires, of the damages, of the victims are saying that this year we've organized something better. And specifically for Korčula, Korcula was a pilot project where the entire island was one area of intervention. That's where we avoided that efficiency reduction because of the municipal and city borders. We designed such pilot projects in several other areas this year. Fortunately, there was no need for them to be realized. I'm saying, I think the island of Korčula is one of those very operational measures that only took on the ground. I'm just saying this because we're aware that there's really a lot of problems, that we're not involved in thinking that we shouldn't deal with problems and that, in addition to this law, we've been preparing and developing a series of other operating systems and measures to make it more efficient. And to conclude, here I am with my colleague following and recording most of the exposure. I must say that there are also some legitimate remarks, we will seek to discuss them by vote and install through amendments the proposed text of the law which we estimate to be justified and will contribute to the improvement of this law but it is not the point of our job to pass a good law but to create a framework for good action on the ground. If the law is not applied properly and we do not provide for mechanisms for all who must participate, no matter how good it is, it will certainly not improve the situation on the ground. So our key task is that through this law we really get into the hands of the mechanisms for all who have to participate and participate in one real, adequate and effective way. So here is the vote we will really consider most of these remarks because I have already noticed that there are some to be classified and through the amendments we will try to fix the things in which we realized that I can't do better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24921	Correction of the inaccuracy of colleagues of Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24922	Well, Mr. Secretary of State needs to know that it's essential that we pass a good law, because a good law will give you mechanisms of implementation. And not that it's not your goal as a government to pass a good law, you said wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24923	My colleague, it is true that the secretary of state must know this, but you must also know that it is not a correction of an incorrect assumption but an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24924	Second Final Proposal for a Law on Protection and Rescue, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, Bill No. 186, the debate on the text of the law was concluded, the amendments were submitted by the Government and the MPs. The government submitted amendments after the deadline. First, we will vote on whether or not we will debate and vote on the amendments made by the Government after the deadline. Who's in favour of voting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 78 votes for and 3 against the decision to debate and vote on the amendments of the Government, I submit after the deadline. We're going to the amendments now. Amendment 1 to State Secretary Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24925	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen. Well, here we have accepted one part of the comments and suggestions of the Committee on Law, and these amendments to the Government are, above all, the ones that are governed by the expression and nomotechnics of that original bill. 1. The amendment is exactly the same in this sense that the word "headship" is replaced by the word "executive" because they do not have all units of local self-government and therefore is the correction, so instead of "headship" the word "executive bodies of local self-government."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24926	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 1. Governments accepted by 78 votes for and 3 abstentions. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24927	Amendment 2. The law regulates the area of action in disasters and major accidents, since not all articles mentioning disaster have been arranged and mentioning a major accident or in Article 5(6), Article 19, Article 35 and Article 40 have not added the word “greater disaster”, as I said with the Law to regulate the action both in disasters and in major accidents, so that we have practically corrected this deficit and are all mentioned only and more accidents in all cases where the disaster is mentioned.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24928	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the 2nd amendment. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 80 votes to adopt this amendment to the government. Secretary of State, since all these amendments are just nomotechnical in nature, I suggest you shorten your reasoning and just say briefly that it's nomotechnical consent so you don't explain it as a whole. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24929	I agree, if the MPs accept it, here's what you've seen...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24930	Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24931	Amendment 3. only every citizen is replaced by every person because all the bonds of conduct under this Act in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24932	Yeah. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Who's in favor of Amendment 3? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted unanimously by 9+81 votes in favour. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24933	Amendment 4 is also nomotechnical foreigners are replaced in Croatian terms.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24934	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by, unanimously, 81 votes. Amendment 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24936	Amendment 5. ... the first one is over-determined to show that the provisions refer to the nature of the activity. [[The speaker is not understood because of the announcement.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24937	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Single amendment six, five with 81 votes accepted. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24938	Amendment 6 to the other articles shall be governed or subject to a fine so as not to prescribe a fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24939	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 6. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment Six accepted unanimously with 81 votes. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24940	Amendment 7 introduces a distinction to show that the central body must provide certain material assumptions for action.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24941	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 7. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment was adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24942	Amendment 8 is a nomotechnical device.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24943	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favor of Amendment 8. Against? Restraint? Unanimity adopted with 80 votes. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24944	Amendment 9 is a language harmonisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24945	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in favor of Amendment 9? Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 9 was adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24946	For the purposes of this paragraph, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24947	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 10. Who's for him? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 10 was adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24948	The amended text was not visible, i.e. the original text did not show who was obliged to cooperate with, and this amendment establishes this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24949	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am giving the votes amendment 11. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Amendment 11 adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24950	Amendment 12 provides for international assistance, regardless of whether it is aid to another country or international organisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24951	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 12. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Amendment 12 adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24952	Amendment 13. In calling for joint supervision, it should be indicated that it is carried out in accordance with a specific regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24953	I'm opening a debate. I am voting on Amendment 13. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Amendment 13 adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24954	Amendment 14 regulates the delay in the execution of the solution in the application investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24955	I'm opening a debate? And I'm closing. Who's in favor of Amendment 14. Against? Restraint? Amendment 14 adopted unanimously with 80 votes. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24956	Amendment 15 lays down the powers and responsibilities of the person working in the administration with special powers and responsibilities. Then the person who issues the oral order is obliged to issue an order in writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24957	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Amendment 15 adopted unanimously with 80 votes. That was Amendment 15?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24958	15, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24959	Then it's Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24960	Amendment 16 more precisely regulates the right to compensation for protection and rescue obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24961	I'm opening a debate. A respected representative on behalf of the Club, Tonci Tadic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24962	Mr. President, I'll speak from here to speed up the procedure. So this amendment actually concerns an extremely important part, which is to cover the costs of those that are mobilized in the event that the elemental disasters. As I witnessed a number of fires on Hvar where we voluntarily extinguished the fires, we know it was good to sort out that part in some way and it's good that the government is going to this concept. That's really good. However, as it is in a number of countries that are orientational to the sea, so in Croatia, it is necessary to establish the best possible system of rescue at sea, we will sooner or later come to the stage that we will be in need of the mobilization of ships or ships to save at sea. It is also a custom in the UK, it is a custom in Norway, and it would be good if the government in this amendment provided for the possibility of compensation and other costs not only of these costs relating to the work of that man but rather of situations where a man has to or offers his own boat for rescue action. Sooner or later, the Coast Guard Law will likely be in the House. This may also be resolved during the debate on the second reading of the Maritime Code, so that the problem will also have to be dealt with in a similar way as other maritime countries did. So we support this amendment, with a note to the Government, that it would be good to see the possibility if it were to save at sea and if ships were to be mobilized for rescue action to include these costs in this fee. Well, thank you, Mr. President. [[Intruder: If you could just answer?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24963	Say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24964	Article 55 is amended as follows: The following article regulates that it has the right to own material assets that are mobilised, has the right to compensation for damages and lost profits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24965	I'm on, I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 16. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that Amendment 16 was adopted unanimously with 81 votes. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24966	Amendment 17 speaks precisely about what Mr Tadic said that compensation and the way in which the compensation is determined is prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia instead of the Protection and Rescue Authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24967	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 17. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 81 votes, Amendment 17. And then Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24968	A language expression is being corrected. The foreigner is replaced by the Croatian word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24969	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 18. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? Carmela. I find that Amendment 81 was unanimously approved, no, with 81 votes adopted Amendment 18. Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24970	In the amendment 19, the provision of Article 61 is aligned with the amendments to other provisions already amended in the previous text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24971	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 19. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Amendment 19 accepted with 81 votes unanimously. Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24972	Amendment 20 corrects the language expression in one part, and the second part sets out the obligations to align plans for obligeds to draw up plans and prescribe deadlines within which the bonds are required to adopt and bring those plans into line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24973	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 20. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 20 accepted unanimously by 81 votes. Amendment 21 and last.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24974	Amendment 21 shall be determined by way of effect without delay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24975	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 21. Government. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find the amendment to the 21st. Government adopted unanimously with 81 votes. We now have amendments to Vice-President Mate Arlovic. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24976	Amendment 1 is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24977	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24978	Amendment 2 is not adopted. Need an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24979	You don't have to. Who's up for that amendment? No one. There's no vote. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24980	Amendment 3 is not adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24981	Who's in? No one. He didn't make it. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24982	Amendment 4 will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24983	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24984	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24985	Who's in? No one. Amendment 5 was not adopted for lack of votes. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24986	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24987	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24988	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24989	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24990	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24991	Who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendments to the Club of Representatives of the CNS and PGS. Amendment 1.?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24992	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24993	There's no one from that club. Who's up for that amendment? What's no one? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24994	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24995	Who's in? He didn't make it. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24996	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24997	Who's in? He didn't get any votes. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24998	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u24999	Who's in? No one. He didn't get any votes. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25000	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25001	Who's in? He didn't get the votes. Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25002	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25003	Who's in? No one. He didn't get anything. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25004	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25005	Who's in? Same thing as the last one. Amendment 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25006	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25007	Who's in? He didn't make it. Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25008	She's not taking it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25009	Who's in? No one voted, so it didn't pass. I am voting on the final proposal for a law on protection and rescue. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? The esteemed representative of the president of the HDZ Club is asking for a word. Luca Baby.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25010	Mr. President, when you vote on these amendments, you have concluded that many of the amendments submitted by some clubs and individuals on this side of the assembly have no one to explain or attend this session. I therefore ask you, Mr President, on the basis of Article 32. The Rules of Procedure, 18, which says that President of the Parliament is concerned about the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs. I ask you also to inform us about Klub HDZ and the Croatian public, which is why here there are no representatives of SDP, HNS PGS, Club HSS, IDS, LIBRRE and two LSA representatives present. Is it a random event that seems to be repeating itself? Is this about the boycott of this session and these vote of law, or the continuation of the obstruction that has been announced and which has been spent here for a while. Because we all work here until a certain time, we vote, we debate, and some MPs very often leave the session, and there are not any who would give some reasons here and on behalf of the proposed amendments. Therefore, I ask you, on the basis of Article 32th indent 18, to inform the Croatian Democratic Community of this factual state and which is why it is so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25011	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll follow it up there. I'll take appropriate steps in that sense. Thank you. I find that with 81 votes for unanimous adoption of the Protection and Rescue Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Along with the amendments accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25012	Let's move on with the debate on point 4. - Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to finance a water pollution protection project in the coastal area, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 187 So the first and second readings are combined. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was submitted by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. I would like a representative of the motionor, State Secretary Martin Dalic for the opening statement. I think we're just gonna get to the first break. Here you go, Mrs. Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25013	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Water pollution protection project in the coastal area aims to improve the quality of coastal waters in the Adriatic with a view to meeting the European Union's standards and provide the basis for safe and environmentally acceptable economic development. Accordingly, this loan contract was concluded providing 50% of the funding for the first of the three possible phases of the project. The first phase financed by this loan consists of three components: investment in coastal ecological infrastructure, which means the construction and expansion of sewage networks, construction and recovery, expansion of major collectors, pumping facilities and general waste water treatment facilities. The project will also ensure institutional strengthening and the creation of an institutional framework to control water pollution. As a result of the project, it is therefore expected to increase the quality of sewage services. This infrastructure, which will be built from this loan, will benefit some 146 thousand people, or 225 thousand, if taken into account during the summer period, will reduce pollution, establish a reliable system of monitoring and monitoring and lowering wastewater quality. It is institutionally envisaged to use the funds as follows. Croatian waters are obliged to implement the first phase of the project under the loan agreement, through the indirect company Kceri which was founded in September 2004 and is called Croatian Water, the Adriatic Project. The work of this society will be supervised by five ministries involved in the project and two members from local administration and self-government. The funding of the project will take place at three levels. 50% of the project funding is provided by this contract between the World Bank and the Republic of Croatia while the remaining 50% are provided by the Republic of Croatia, Croatia's water and local administration units and self-government. In a way that, as I said 50% of the world bank loan, 22% of the state budget and 19% of the unit of local administration and self-government and 9% of Croatian water from the water protection fee. The Republic of Croatia, which is a borrower, will lend the funds to Croatian waters under the same conditions, while Croatian waters will entrust their unit of Croatian water-adriatic project to the management of the funds for the implementation of the entire project with the contract on the sale of the project. At the time of financing the loan will be financed during the payment of 66% of the unit of local administration and self-government from the amount of financing for construction and 34% of Croatian water from the water protection fee. The total amount of loans is 40 million euros, it is a 15-year loan with a start for 5 years with an interest rate of 6 months... Plus a fixed half-percent margin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Interest rate on 1 September, e.g. It was 2.7%. Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25014	Here you go, ma'am. I mean, these are benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25015	You can joke at my expense, but I, here, I'm not used to the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25016	I'm warning you colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25017	I wanted to say that the Legislative Committee has tabled two amendments that are of nomotechnical character and the Government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25018	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain promised that he would be very brief and that he would reach a break. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25019	Right up until the break, no, well, honored Madam Vice-President, distinguished secretary of state, esteemed gentlemen of counsel. The Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the IBRD in 93 and since 93, better said than 94th to this day, the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn exactly 2 billion 36 million dollars in loans from the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, meaning a billion in loans of that kind, and a billion in 669 million dollars plus 351 million marks and 166 million euros, totaling these two billion and 36 million dollars. The Republic of Croatia also received 35 gifts totalling $34.5m. It was loans to highways, to improve health care, to restructure railways, to rebuild Eastern Slavonia, Baranja, Srijema. From, for example, 74 million marks for the waterway, the sewerage of Split 65 million marks, for the protection of forests in the coastal area 42 million dollars, for the river transport route 156 million dollars etc. I have not noticed a single targeted project for Istria County so far. Maybe out of all these loans, it means out of those 2 billion 36 million dollars, the Istrian County first time might get something based on this loan. But I said maybe. As far as this loan itself is concerned, IDS supports it. Why? Because IBRD funds are the most favourable means that the Republic of Croatia can come into the money market and are finally these means of protecting the Adriatic. I suppose the 40m-euro funds, however, are already reserved in the vast majority. In fact, the project is being competed with by Zadar, Rijeka, Opatija, Biograd at sea. From VIII. election units, so from my constituency they are Rijeka and Opatija and that is enough reason to make it clear that IDS supports this loan. These are loans in which local self-government, as we have heard, pays 66% of the amount it receives at the beginning of 5 years and Croatia leads 34%. The interest is 2.7% and at first glance it looks great. But there's one but. It is the entry of Croatian waters into the ownership structure of a single municipal system as Croatia's leaders enter the system, so it is not very good. It is good that Croatia's waters from the other side pay for the loan, it will not be good if some municipal systems take over through this form. Communal companies in my court must remain city-wide in the future and avoid privatisation. I know that it's important for citizens to get, I don't know, sewerage or water or anything, but it's not good for someone outside of their work to take over these systems. Another element is important. Of these 40 million euros, that means 300 million kuna. The works are waste of EUR 28.5 million. On the goods to be bought somewhere, it's probably $5 million, and on the famous consulting services of EUR 3.4 million. Now why this great money goes to these consulting services for me is perhaps important, and bearing in mind that the gross money is being drawn by those who pay that money from those institutions, the question is whether the rate of 2.7% is just as favourable as it looks at first sight and whether it might be possible for some domestic banks that are already going with interest from 3% to 4% for some city projects to achieve the same thing, and also to reduce that external dependence on external debt. But let's just say this loan is favourable and there's no reason not to accept it. Of course, this loan cannot be used by cities in the interior that are not on the coast but exclusively by cities at sea. I personally regret that Pula did not show interest in this loan and that it failed on the other hand the one for the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development. Therefore, if all the funds are not allocated and if there is room, I invite some coastal cities in Istria to report to the loan. I said it's not for those cities in the interior; Buzet, Chabar, I don't know Shares and so on. The Adriatic is to be kept on the other side. The Adriatic is the largest resource except for the people that Croatia has. To be clear in territorial waters, no one should be released, especially strangers. Neither to hunt fish nor to exploit other resources autonomously from Croatia, but we all have to wonder if we can survive with totally deindustrated cities along the coast as a nation. I'm saying we just can't. Istria is the most developed tourist county. The population is making the biggest income from tourism, but I argue that without industry or county the Istrian can't survive. We can't do it without the liners, we can't do it without the shipyard, the port, the factory, I don't know the sardines, the refinery, one word of industry. Let's just look at how many people are employed in the industry, as much as in tourism and we'll agree very quickly that without industry, let's say on the coast we can't. If someone had given themselves a hard time and looked or counted all the large systems that were located along the coast, and then failed, by Torpedo, Croatia-Line... , The first May from Rasha, Ricardo Bencic, the Trogirian, Zadar, Split and so on, the factory would really realize that the Adriatic industry is a decimal, decimated. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We simply cannot exist without it. It is clear that we are at the IDS Club for maximum protection of the Adriatic, the environment, water and so on, but the policy that has been led over the past 14 years has been totally devastating and worse than that. These ends were not directly affected by war. They've run out of industry and it's a clear disaster as well as not to renew anything on that plan. I don't expect to be... And one more thing, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also around Adria. You need to go out with all the facts with all the information and study, two more minutes. [[Employee: A fellow representative, agenda item please.]] But if the citizens want a referendum, then that referendum should allow them. And for that principle, the IDS will always be, even though I'm not running away from that we can all be wrong in the end, but if we allow a referendum, we will be washed by responsibility for any damage in the room or, I don't know, before, in front of the citizens. Clearly, I do not expect that someone will give Croatia credit to build, for example, a new tractor factory, torpedoes. Of course not. They'll give her a loan for sewers, rainwaters, highways, plumbing, recovery, dumps, dumps and so on, but if we don't attract capital that will restore industry, I repeat, it's, it's being replaced by some new bad one we're writing. Either the capital here or our truckers for that capital will often be in Iraq too. I'm back on this loan once more. Finally, the former government was working on it, and I think that's good, but in the future, if possible, it should really be kept in mind that they try to find funds with domestic lenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25020	Thank you very much. I see a mood in the assembly. Correction of an incorrect quote, Comrade Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25021	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is incorrect that colleagues of Cain will return this loan to Croatian waters, or municipal companies, because it says in the very explanation who will return it. It will be returned by users, which means citizens and businesses, because the cost of the loan will be calculated into a meter of cubic water consumption. So both these consulting services of $3 million and $400,000 will be calculated for citizens and businesses and we will pay them and, of course, in 10 years we have had 200 kuna, 200% increase in water prices. We will probably have the same age for the next 10 years if we accept this model where the pro-forms are returned by the Croatian Government, Water or municipal companies and in nature pay and return citizens and businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25022	Thank you very much. Cain, brave. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I hurt him because I let you talk outside the break, so let's see what you've noticed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25023	Just one sentence. Everything in this country is paid by citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25024	A fellow representative doesn't know what a breach of the Rules of Procedure is. He didn't call in the article. My colleagues and colleagues are taking a break for lunch. We'll continue at 3:00 sharp. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS is the respected representative, Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25026	I'd start with this, thank God this contract came to the Parliament. Thank God we broke through once something that was hard to go no matter who was in power because this is the beginning of understanding that the problem of waste municipal waters is not a communal problem, but that it is a national programme. And because of that, and these 22% of the countries in the budget participate in the total project, and it is not identical everywhere, nor, but it is the average size of the entire programme, which is about a billion, slightly more than a billion and 600 million kuna. So, this philosophy and at all our legislation that says that the problem of wastewater resolution is a communal problem, will never be solved by Croatia if we do not realize that this is a national problem and that we have to solve the problem in this way, and that means by the principle of solidarity for all those smaller places and cities that clearly cannot solve it from their means, we need to find some other sources of funds, whether it will be budget or some other sources, we will still have to agree on it. But I'm saying this is a good start. Namely, there are no colleagues of Cain, but this is actually about the entire Adriatic basin, not only of coastal sites but also of all the places located in the interior of the Adriatic, so the interior of Istria and the interior of the Primorje-Gorski County, the interior of Split-Dalmatia, Sibenik, Zadar and Dubrovnik County. Although Dubrovnik isn't even on the inside. So with this 40 million kuna loan and domestic assets, 40 million euro loans and 40 million domestic funds will solve the problem in Zadar, solve the problem in Opatija, solve the problem of Grobiština in the Rijeka area and address the problem of the city's Riviera. The problem will be solved clearly in different places in different ways. In Zadar, a central wastewater treatment plant should be built and a submarine discharge should be built. Many things have been done in Opatija in the past and this year, and as you know in the budget for this year, 19 million kunas have been foreseen for this programme. I have to admit that I don't know if they've been used, whether the authorities have waited for this law to be passed with the International Bank so that those funds could be used. There was also talk of consulting services here. And we need to explain that. No return is beyond the limit. The consulting services include the creation of project documentation and all those consulting jobs that must be done for such projects. So, this is a fairly favourable loan with 2.7% interest, even though it's said from 1.8 in my day, I guess the euro has been changing -- libor. On the other hand, I would like to say, and it has been initiated already in Croatian waters that the rest of Croatia should be dealt with in a similar way. In Croatia, only 40% of the population is connected to wastewater disposal systems, and 60% of the population is not connected to systems, sewers systems, and only a small percentage of some 4% of Zagreb's which has now entered that category is only small, so 4% is purified. You have a large number of devices in Croatia that have been built and are practically out of service, because neither the utility companies are qualified to operate, nor is it, you also have that they are built as dead capital, so there are facilities built, and you have no sewers built. So, these are Little Curves where nothing happens, and the money is spent. These things should be avoided and done in the future in a way that Croatia leads to them as a roof institution in Croatia for this problem of water but, together with public enterprises, most of which are not qualified to do so. Here I can think of, there is colleague Markovinović, he falls under the authority of Zagreb water and sewerage, in his municipality building sewers but his city, his water supply won't take over. ... Come on, thank God, this has been since he became a representative. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So this problem needs to be tackled in one rational way and when it's done well, I say find resources, whether these cheap loans, whether they're domestic or domestic, whether they're both Croatian Waters and Communal Enterprises. Communal companies in terms of raising the price for wastewater disposal, which today actually has very few cities and at a symbolic level. In fact, we haven't settled it in Croatia. Prices of wastewater disposal services in Croatia do not exist. Through that price, regardless of how it seemed to be going to someone's standard of citizens, we have no solutions for the development of settlements in Croatia, cities and settlements, or for any civilization level in terms of solving this problem. On the other hand, we have an obligation not only to the sea, but also to the rivers and streams, to leave them behind. We also have an obligation to cleanse that water to come clean to those who are further downriver than us. This is about the Adriatic, too, because we must now, with all the countries in the Adriatic, have a common strategy. Surely we don't pollute the Adriatic like Italians. The Italians on the coast have 30 million people, plus tourists, and we have about a million and 800 on the entire Adriatic Basin plus our tourists, that's your ratio and from that ratio to calculate how much pollution is. So, by the way, God has given us our currents to take the coast and carry everything to the Italians. I would like to say that in addition to this programme, which is at the level of a billion and 600 million kunas on the Adriatic itself, in the construction of systems in a large number of cities which Split is with Solin, Kaštel and Trogir solves their problem, i.e. for the level of 270 thousand inhabitants, Sibenik solves with a loan of domestic credit and with the resources of Croatian waters, and is expected to be very quickly finished by a part of these systems as well as by a system of integrity. When you look at villages or cities on the Adriatic which are larger than 50,000 inhabitants then they represent 50% of the population on the Adriatic, and that would make us, even though they are only joined at 50% today. If you're looking at villages that are larger than 10,000 people, then that's an additional 20% of the population joined. These 30 percent are in much smaller settlements and it will be very expensive, specific investments, and today joining these sewer systems is 26% only. This says that the state will have to intervene in these small settlements because they themselves, and even with the help of Croatian waters, can never solve this problem. I'm glad there's a lot of people here in the House who come from local self-government and know exactly what this big problem is and know that these problems, this problem itself, can never be solved. As for therefore further investment, I would like this programme to be made, this loan immediately on 100 million euros, however, the World Bank and also our own people who have negotiated, from the experience we have decided to go to three phases of the project, in a way that will be divided into 10 years for realisation, and so that the phases can overlap for several years, and the payment would go each stage in particular. The reasons for this are simple because it happened in Croatia that loans were taken from international banks and interest was paid, return returned and not yet spent. So that's why it's been phased out here, and I hope that the people involved in this problem will effectively solve this problem, so that it really solves this problem in four years, until November 2008, when it's foreseen under this contract to use the total loan. So from today it would be four years, and five years is a grace period I hope those who work on this will take it seriously and realize this program. This efficiency is actually very important because money costs, money is no matter how small the interest is, however, we are not quite ready to understand this problem in the right way, so it often happens to come candidates for various programs without actually having any documentation. We will have to change the same philosophy in Croatia because then we could be much more efficient and deal with these programmes earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25027	Thank you very much. The next club is the HSS Club, representative of Zeljko Pecek. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25028	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished members of the government. I'm going to say something different about this bill, it's interesting that he doesn't cause any special attention here in the Assembly because the assembly is empty. We are uninterested because it is a routine proposal at first sight, it is one of a series of projects that we finance through the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development that is finally the 20th project in a row, so it is probably at first sight routines. Also, at first glance, this looks good, we have 5 years of moratorium, we have a low interest of 2.7%, which is based on... plus a margin of 0.5 we have a 10-year loan, but we don't see that the compensation for this loan is 0.5% one-time and we don't see that 0.35 fees for the unused part of the loan, one of the very important elements of this entire arrangement. It is also wonderful at first glance, the loan is taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, co-financing is from Croatian Water, some small participation units of local self-government and we are solving the ecological problem of the Adriatic. However, when we look at the loan agreement a little bit, in Appendix 1, we see something and a different attitude towards the overall bill proposal. All we know in reason is that this is a coastal area I thank Mr. Marasović, who has actually introduced us to something more detailed about this project, however, what is important here and this should be pointed out several times that this credit is returned in nature by using drinking water or by paying compensation for waste water and Croatian entrepreneurs or economy. How does that actually relate to the economy? We boast that we have macroeconomic stability, we have a stable course, we have low inflation, but we also have a "stable export" that has been stagnating for 10 years. However, within 5 years, we have increased the budget by 100%, and I will remind you in 99, it was 6.2 billion euros for this next year it is projected to be 12 billion euros. Our salaries are twice as high, energy is 70% more expensive, and municipal services that are now drinking water and waste water 200% for the past 10 years have gone up. Exporters simply no longer have valves to compensate for this expensive cost generated by their country and generated by state-owned companies. They used all the reserves in the productivity of the work, they used all the reserves at the repromary, and this contribution of the contract tells us about our approach to using the loan and how we're going to build this investment. $28.5 million is work. $5 million and $100,000 is a commodity. I hope it is not import goods as we have previously imported pipes from abroad for the construction of water, in addition to the fact that there are several factories in Croatia that do so. So I'd like to ask the Proposer to give us an explanation for this part of the arrangement in Appendix 1. What my colleague Marasovic tried to explain was that the consulting services are 3 million and $400,000 relatively low. I agree that might be possible. But it's 8.5% compared to the project, and it'd probably deserve a little wider elaborate than dry-boiling that we're going to pay so much in the arrangement. What bothers me especially, which is an unscheduled part of the loan. We've got as much as $3 million unscheduled part of the loan or 7.5%. In other words, when you add up the indistinguishable part and when you add up the consulting services, that's as much as 16% of this credit arrangement. Anyway, too much. No one can convince me that this way, I will call it the schlamperaj undisputedly increases the cost of using the loan, and thus at the end and the price of water use, i.e. the fees for wastewater. All this surface approach will of course go to the end-user, because Croatian waters will calculate it in the price of the end-user and we will again come if we act in this way over 10 years to increase the prices of water and utility by 200%. That's why we're proposing at the HSS Club not to accept this bill until we get a better explanation than the government. Especially to return to the issue of consulting services of high, unscheduled part of the use of credit. I think the proposer has to convince us that this loan will be used within the optimal time limit, because of those actually interest rates that are waiting for us if we don't take advantage of it. How it will be used rationally and how there is actually one more serious intention with documentation to complete it within the expected time limit. I stress any delay, any overpayment of consulting services, overuse of credit is paid by end-users who return right through the payment of too much water use price. I'm actually going to quote what's written in the reasoning of the law to make it more convincing. So I quote the argument: "the total return basically burdens the cubic meter of water consumption in the project area", meaning paying citizens, paid by entrepreneurs. We have to fight that with this kind of cheap funding we don't get uncontrolled price hikes over the next 10 years. Because I'd like the utility service to increase 7%, not 70% or 200. I would like to give support to our entrepreneurs who will only thus be able to lower their entry prices and better quality organize production and go towards exports. What is also alarming here is the intention not to make direct use of credit with local utility companies at all. The model is the government takes credit, transfers it to Croatian waters, Croatian waters enter the core capital of municipal companies at local level. And of course the local self-government that directly finance it through the allocation of funds that directly finance through the collection of more and too high the price of drinking and waste water remains through such arrangements up to 20, 30, 50% of the underlying capital in its businesses, it is actually a new form of asset ownership owned by cities and municipalities. This is why the HSS proposes that the vote on a proposal for a contract be postponed. I would also like to oblige the Government of the Republic of Croatia to report to the Assembly on the possibilities of reducing the consulting services and education referred to in Appendix 1 in the amount of 3 million and 400 thousand kuna. We would also like to oblige the Government to report to the Croatian Parliament on the reasons why three million dollars were unscheduled in the withdrawal of the loan funds, because it will cost us? And also in addition to the 1st of this contract. And, of course, we'd like the government to brief us on whether there's any other possibility that credit can be used by end-users because it's going to be cheaper because the state won't take away what is owned by cities and municipalities, or their utility companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25029	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The HSP Club remains a representative of Pero Kovacevic, a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25030	Madam Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to this debate and reading this material, I remembered the saying of the father of Dr. Ante Starčević's father, who said, "Life doesn't admit dissension." Why am I saying that life doesn't admit dissension? Because now you'll see there's a lot of discrepancies here. First, the first disagreement is that at the same time in Croatia we have a project to protect against water pollution in the coastal area, and on the other hand we have a project by Adria. On the one hand, we will protect the Croatian Adriatic and water from pollution, and on the other hand we have a project called Adria, where we will pollute it. These two projects aren't going together. It's the third important thing. I was saying that on behalf of the Club about that contract with the international, with the World Bank to finish off the highway. We had the same situation, and I fully agree with Mr. Pecek's exposure to this part. We're saying that we're getting a favourable loan from the World Bank, so a five-year start, a 10-year payout, then a start and an interest rate of 2.7%. But right here it is said that it means not 10%, slightly less than 10% of the 40m euros, 3.4m euros goes where the World Bank says. So let's not say it's such a favourable loan. Let's make an effort, so make the loans in the loan just work. Let's just do credit work. So that's how we'll make it an even more favourable loan. Because look, with that loan, 10% went to those services, but they determine who's going to educate people, and we're paying for it again. We pay from what we've borrowed and then we get our people back, and they decide who gets it. I mean, that kind of situation doesn't look exactly like me, it's totally one discrepancy. Let's make a move. By the time we had that loan, we had an even bigger situation. They said, it said, it is true, that on the Croatian side legal interpretation for the implementation of the contract is given by the law firm Haženkojevic, and that is 2%. And then we rightists offered that we would give free interpretations about the implementation of such a concluded loan which would cost cheaper. Normally, no one wanted to accept it because everyone has their own interests. Now that we're talking about interest, it's an interesting situation that we need to look back. The World Bank has many elements of globalisation in it. Let's just take an example, and here Caine was talking about how they gave us a loan that was good enough for us to get rid of the garters. And why did they give it? Because they want to get to real estate in Croatia and then they gave a favourable loan. Now, what's behind this? I don't know if any of you are aware that drinking water is going to be worth more than oil in a few years tomorrow. Do you know that in Argentina concessions are privately owned, you know who? Bechtella. Drinking water in Argentina has Bechtel and this is another time, Croatia has drinking water, we know that drinking water is somewhere, there used to be 3% and now it's about 1.5%. It is a huge asset, and I wouldn't be surprised that the final part of the pressure to go to the concessions will go, and then we won't have anything in Croatia anymore. So I'm looking for an explanation why we can't make even more favourable loans, why we're making such a favourable conclusion that the World Bank will always determine the services of the consultant. Who negotiates on behalf of Croatia, on whose behalf does he negotiate? He's not negotiating HSP in mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25031	Thanks a lot, buddy. Next up is the HDZ Club's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25032	Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! Here, I'll calm down if Pero does it so temperamentally. It is, of course, necessary to consider this from all aspects, although I am speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club in the introduction I will say one personal experience but of course related to this topic. During the period it seems to me even last year or there while I was mayor of Zadar, ambassadors from different countries from Zagreb came and offered conditions and actually assessed how local self-government would react to the World Bank's offer for such loans. I told you in a joke, of course, but I told you pretty hard that first we need money and favourable credits so we can produce, have something, let it into such systems and then build such systems. Of course, in a joke that's plastically translated, give us a hand in establishing life first, and then this is an upgrade that will follow. Obviously, these are interests on the other hand, and objective needs arise. We want the coast to develop tourism and tourism has been defined together as a strategic national branch. However, we often do so declared because there is almost no city in the tourist area that is completely solved sewer systems. Unfortunately, you have the fact that we have cities that are about 90% or somewhere around it and these big tourist centers have septic caves and not built sewer systems. And we want to develop tourism. Yes, it is necessary, the question is at which stage, at which point you do it. Of course, this doubt Mr Kovacevic is expressing can also be observed. Is they offer us but of course they also see their interest especially when you see consulting services. I can say as a financier, as an economist, and you others who have life experience and others that mostly the models of the functioning of these banks of the world, European and others are in this same system, it's only a matter of size. It is done through consulting houses but precisely known which is the pre-prescribed which. Either you go that way or you don't use those funds. Now, Croatia has defined itself of course because there is not enough of its own accumulation. It must be defined as an imported so-called. battery and in that part service the needs of the state in that common part. I also agree with those who say that it seems to me Mr. Marasovic before and others that small local communities, especially those that are tourist-developed, will not be able to build the necessary infrastructure without the help of the state or anyone else. But I also believe that the state will not be able to build these systems without these or some other credit lines, or help which it will then be able to realise and subsequently begin to collect its revenues in order to pay through it. Of course, the price of water cubes or any other cost used in the municipal system has a significant impact on the standard of living on one side. On the other hand, this cost cannot be passed on to others who do not use such systems or use them in a small extent and, in that sense, that price either received or dropped water which is then calculated according to the place of charge shall be calculated in such a way that it has current costs, costs of maintenance of the system, investment costs and these costs are being developed and I think it is simply necessary to control that this water price is not the price of oil and we agree there. However, these systems continue to actually be realized because countries earlier in the project system... We remember the Gulf of Kastelan, for example, which was destroyed and not polluted, and so other projects that are already in, this is one of the phases that has been happening so far and will continue to be realized no matter what cities or districts are going to run for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can't get... what Mr. Cain says is my Pula or my Zadar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We can't observe it that way, we're still the state council here, of course, the local patriotic but primarily we need to see how the state in that system is covered in the development of water supply systems and in the development of sewer systems that are essential for economic development again. In this sense, the use of these funds will be a priority because it seems to me that, I recall saying, it was planned even somewhere around 80 million funds but as it is just estimated that these funds cannot be used and so far some of the funds have not been used because the project documentation has not been completed or have not been prepared and then we have a payment of the capital cost which, of course, is taken entirely on the unused part of the salary. In order to avoid this, this was defined by these 40 million that could be realised in the time provided so as to avoid the additional capital cost that would be foreseen. Here, for these reasons, and in this doubt whether this price is small or large, with certainly a note that these offered conditions at this time and there are no particularly favourable conditions of lending and these are credit lines intended only for such projects. So, we can't re-apply it, and that's where I end up with the introduction of why I said the one and the personal assessment and the experience that dedicated loans that can't be re-applied and can be used precisely for projects that are currently ready to go into realisation. So we will, of course, support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25033	Thank you very much. State Secretary Mrs. Dalic came forward for the closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25034	Thank you very much. I will try briefly to address and answer the questions that have been raised during the debate. Whether all the funds are already distributed. No, that would be impossible before such a contract is ratified in this House of Commons. However, at this moment there is a clear interest of four cities in the coastal area and all units of local administrations and self-government from this area that have interest and projects that meet and the objectives of this loan can therefore report to the Croatian Water Association Project "Jadran" and then a procedure will be implemented that is prescribed by the Croatian Law on Local Administration and Self-Government, an assessment, related to the assessment of these projects, and such projects will then be able to be financed from this loan. Consulate services. The loan funds provided for consulting services are designed to finance the implementation and implementation studies necessary from both technical and legislative aspects in order to make such facilities possible. I remind you, therefore, of collectors and sewers that must be carried out in accordance with their implementation, making them in accordance with our laws. And therefore it is also necessary to make appropriate studies. In addition to this Act, a tender procedure is described, which will also be carried out by all contractors who will perform the work, and will be awarded in a public competition that will be published in the National Journal and in at least one daily news. Unscheduled assets, the existence of unallocated funds in this loan is standard, the standard element of the contract with the World Bank. Why are there unscheduled funds? As the use of the loan is foreseen by 2008. Therefore, since all structural elements cannot be fully considered and this represents one reserve which, during the duration of the loan, can be allocated either to the costs of the purchase of goods, or to the costs of the purchase of services. And finally, why can't we make more favourable loans? It is quite clear that Croatia is becoming more developed and the more advanced the possibilities of making more favourable loans will be greater. However, I would like to inform you that, for example, on the bond market, Croatian market bonds are now traded at a margin of approximately 0.7 to 0.8% above the reference interest rates. Maybe a year and a half ago that was over 1.5 or 1.3%, and this loan foresees a 0.5% margin above the reference interest rates. Therefore, this margin, which is likely to be smaller in the future as Croatia progresses, is still significantly less than the margin that today trades Croatian bonds on the capital market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25035	Thank you very much. The debate is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25036	Second. Final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to finance a water pollution protection project in the coastal process, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 187. Let's vote first on the proposal for a conclusion of the HSS Representatives Club. The HSS representative club proposed the following conclusion. It consists of three parts. Under 1. The vote on the final draft law confirming the loan agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for the financing of the water pollution protection project in the coastal area is postponed. Second. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report to the Croatian Parliament on the possibilities of reducing the consulting services and education referred to in Annex 1. A $3 million contract and $400,000 U.S. dollars. And a third. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to report to the Croatian Parliament on the reasons why $3m of US dollars has been unscheduled in the withdrawal of loan funds. Also in addition to the 1st of this Treaty. The government has also shown itself about the view of the proposals for these conclusions. Taking the view that these conclusions should not be accepted. Please engage. Comrade Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25037	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Can we hear a reason why the conclusions are not accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25038	Yesterday, a government official, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance explained in the debate why the government, Mrs Martina Dalic, holds that these conclusions should not be accepted in this assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25039	Mr. President, I think we're going to break the Rules of Procedure because the Prime Minister has to be under the impression that this is about an amendment, not a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25040	Thank you very much. We did not violate the Rules of Procedure because a representative of the Government was manifested in the debate on the Proposal for this Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Treaty on the Proposal for those conclusions which your Club has submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25041	Can I give you an extra explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25042	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25043	Can I further explain our conclusions?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25044	Not anymore! We've closed the debate!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25045	Well, that's a very unusual way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25046	In a very ordinary way. Please, come on! Please vote. I'm asking for a result. I find that 33 MPs, with a abstention of 4.75, did not receive the necessary majority. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted and become an integral part of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of this law. Please engage. You're welcome to vote. Score. I find this law passed with 86 votes for, 25 abstentions and 2 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25047	The next item of the agenda is: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on freshwater fisheries, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 188 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When setting up the agenda, we accepted the application of the orderly procedure in the adoption of this Act. You've received the motion for an act. The Rules of Procedure unites first and second readings. You can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. And the debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? It is State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25048	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments and additions to the law on freshwater fisheries are designed to create legal assumptions for the establishment of a fishing inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, which would also be in accordance with the Law on the establishment and part-time of the central authorities of the state administration. The Internal Design Regulation of the Ministry of Agriculture establishes a fishing inspection in freshwater fisheries as a special establishment unit at the level of the department. The proposal for a law lays down the scope of the inspection work and the inspection control system. Also, the proposal for a law is in line with the 2001 agriculture and fisheries strategy of the Republic of Croatia. But also with new needs in the area of inspection surveillance. So far, inspection surveillance has not been specialised enough, it was part of an economic inspection within the State Inspectorate. We believe it is also necessary to strengthen it with human strength, but first of all to bring it closer to the mother's vault. In fact, this would allow us to have continued information from the field, therefore, better quality control of the whole situation but also feedback on the effectiveness of the measures we are implementing in this sector. The permanent dislocation, exposition, therefore, Osijek, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci and Zagreb are also foreseen. Also, this proposal for a law is in line with the trends of sport fishing in Europe and in particular in this section on equalising the conditions for passing fishing exams, the purchase of fishing licences by foreign citizens with citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It also facilitates the procedure for the regulation of fishing and licensing for persons with disabilities of the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia who are allowed to fish on all liquids, based on one fishing licence, therefore, without prior confirmation by the Ministry of Agriculture or without additional administration. The introduction of special habitats also provides for better quality and greater protection and conservation of fishery resources, since it includes plantation, feeding ground, wintering sites and fish migration routes. We also believe that the application of this Act, as prescribed in Article 34, will strengthen the role of science and profession in this area because the funds collected from permits and compensation will be returned to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and used for the mortiring of freshwater fish resources. Also during the application of the freshwater fisheries law, certain shortcomings have been observed that have prevented better quality management of fishing waters and the protection of fish stocks. And in that sense, certain improvements have been proposed. I think it is important to point out that the amended articles of the Law which determine the compensation for fishing are in a way that ensures that more resources are provided to fishing rights holders who are also obliged to ensure quality management and protection of the fish fund. The law is discussed on the Committees on Agriculture, legislation. We have received a lot of suggestions from the legislation on nomotechnical harmonisation, and we will turn that into our own amendments until the vote. And we have three amendments from the Committee on Agriculture, of which they are, they are actually in agreement at the session itself, and so they will be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25049	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. The first is the HNS Club, the PGS. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25050	Honored vice presidents, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The above-mentioned Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on freshwater fisheries with the Final Proposal for the Law states that it is to be adopted by emergency procedure. We at HNS, PGS are not satisfied with the urgent procedure of the Law and its Amendment and supplement, which regulates such sensitive matter as freshwater fishing, which requires serious access and normal procedure. Under this course, we are referring to the first and second reading of a more serious approach in the making of laws that regulate the management of natural resources and the Croatian Constitution, which points to special care for natural resources in its Article 52. We must pay particular attention to this article because the constitutional basis of this law is also mentioned in Article 52. The proposed urgency is based on the need to create a legal assumption for the establishment of a fishing inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. This is also possible to ensure the changes and additions of this law that would solve this problem exclusively, and all in accordance with the Law on Construction and the Part-Corruption of the Central Authority of the State Administration, "National Journal" No. 199/03. and 30/04. In particular, it is necessary to discuss the provisions on fishing law because, as the applicant himself says, it is a basic document that enables the authorising officer to manage a particular fishing area or a certain fishing zone in accordance with the applicable economic base and annual plan. According to field knowledge, the majority of the authorisation holders are sports fishermen' associations, fishermen who often do not care enough about the needs of professional Rijeka fishermen who are already due to a number of other circumstances in an unfavourable situation. An example of the temporary loss of the Charengrad fishing ad and the general situation in the Danube. We believe that the law, the legislator, is obliged to ensure in law the appropriate status of the institution of a professional freshwater fisherman because it is a category that ensures existence through fishing, and we point to this problem because we know from experience that between a sports-recreative fisherman and a professional fisherman there is a competence of competition for space that very often ends badly for professionals. The term "appropriate" used for authorised professional fishermen often loses its significance in conflict with individual sports fishermen or associations. We in HNS and PGS are of the opinion that the sensitivity of this topic requires legal participation, i.e. consultation of scientists of scientific and practical aspects, i.e. sciences and professions, as well as representatives of the sport fishing alliance without their assessment and broad discussion, is difficult to engage in the adoption of such a law by emergency procedure, because the details of the problems covered by the law are most of us unknown. With the hasty adoption of this law, I would especially like to draw attention to the expected amount of individual penalties that do not act on a educational basis but can cause serious social consequences. Taking into account the material situation, both sports and professional freshwater fishermen, we specifically point to Article 72. We therefore propose that, within the framework of the amendments and the addition of the Law on freshwater fisheries, those provisions that are essential for the establishment of inspection, and that the whole law which is in accordance with the regulation of the European Union be drawn up and put into practice on a regular basis. With regard to possible fishing in the Vran Lake for indigenous populations, such as Kornati for Murter's legislator foresees the possibility of sports-recreative in line with the internal decision of nature park management in freshwater fisheries. However, there is no category of small fishing, additionally, which would allow people to use the top or grid and we are looking for additional introduction of this category. I am aware that in this law only two points touch the protected space i.e. areas such as Vransko Lake Nature Park, but regardless of all these remarks and possibilities we in HNS and PGS will support the proposal of this law because we are aware that it is better with it than without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25051	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25052	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on freshwater fisheries according to the Government of the Republic of Croatia aims to regulate, improve the economic component of river or freshwater fisheries on the Danube and Sava rivers, better organise sport fishing in the Republic of Croatia, accommodate fishing societies and the fishing alliance of Croatia, generally better organise and regulate sports fishing in Croatia, then improve the management of fishing waters and the protection of fish stocks as well as the environmental side of this law. Finally, perhaps no less important, organisational changes in the area and jurisdiction of the state authorities of the administration, i.e. to establish a fishing or fishing inspection. The general importance of freshwater fishing in the Republic of Croatia's economy has been in a devastating trend in the past 10 years. The Republic of Croatia once exported up to 18,000 tons of freshwater fish, according to data I found on the Internet. Today, Croatia is exporting about 3 and a half thousand tonnes of freshwater fish, mostly carp and trout. Our relationship with this branch or this activity is also shown in the formal sense of the Republic of Croatia on fishing and fishing has three laws. The majority of European countries organise this area uniquely in one law and for a salty and freshwater fisheries area, some countries even regulate hunting by one law and place them in the same regime. Since this activity has been hit by drought over the past few years, and I as a non-professional on fishing, but by the party's task I am changing the Vice-President of Dom Matu Arlovic in this matter, I have been warned that the drought has caused huge damage to the fishermen in the Republic of Croatia and that 15 million kunas should be invested in the pond, which could probably be returned through foreign exchange exports within a very short time period. All this shows that taking care of this branch is unsatisfactory over a long period of time. According to what I found on the Internet on the state of the farm, I will quote an article: "The abandonment of technical facilities, the lack of favourable and long-term loans, the high prices of cereals, high water and veterinary benefits, the damages from cormorants have reversed freshwater fishing for a decade in the Republic of Croatia. In only 10 years, the area under the ponds fell from 12 and a half thousand hectares to 8 thousand and 300 hectares." This is already enough alert for the ministry's competent ministry and fishing organisation. This is primarily about freshwater fishing or sports fishing. From fishing associations I received a warning that most countries' fishing license for a sports fisherman can be obtained in each tourist agency. If Croatia, which is a Croatian tourist country and wants to be at the top of the tourist offer, then I see no reason why the fishing licence for sport fishing on certain waters could not be obtained, for example, in tourist agencies and in the context of tourist trips to the Republic of Croatia. Another warning for the proposer. Namely, it is about how it can be used for sports fishing from the border to the border and Sava from border to the border, so the Danube from the border with the Republic of Hungary to the end of the state border with Serbia-Montenegro and Sava, along the state border with Bosnia and Herzegovina. We suggest that sport fishing can be given and so to say to unprofessional fishermen who could do fishing on those rivers with an annual flat-rate fee. On behalf of the Arlovic Club, he also submitted 6 amendments, the Club attaches them and supports them in the debate. We consider these if they are accepted that the Club will also be able to vote in favour of the adoption of the law in this form. Of course, we propose that, in a certain way, the relationship towards this branch be changed and that talks be reached, until the start of negotiations with the European Union, a full law on the whole activities of fishing and fishing from sea to river and sport, so that we have standards that apply to the countries of the European Union and thus prepared to come to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25053	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club Mr. Representative Mato Šimac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen from the government, colleagues and colleagues. Sports fishing in the Republic of Croatia deals with about 52,000 citizens, which are primarily recreational activities. The competition deals with about 2.5 thousand members of the Croatian Sports Fishing Federation. This large number of participants in fishing on our fishing waters points to a prominent social aspect of sports fishing, which is otherwise highly appreciated in the world. Fishermen of all professions stay on the water every day mass while fishing, and also good security guards jio fauna and nature at all. It is important that the Republic of Croatia regulates fishing and fish farming through legal regulations. Applying the Act on freshwater fishing enables the protection of fishing resources, rational management and use of the same, all with respect to scientific achievements and professions. Since we do not know what fishing potential we have at our disposal, systematic research is financed with the purpose of monitoring the state of the fish populations and their habitats, or monitoring. What does the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on freshwater fisheries bring us? An important law on freshwater fishing was adopted in the fall of 2001. Based on his provisions, all sublegal regulations have been passed. And most important were fishing rights for almost all fishing waters, which was also the main condition for rational management. To freshwater fishing areas today, as a rule, the masters of the sport fishing association. And in a small part of the public institution in protected parts of nature. The three-year application of the Law identified certain shortcomings as well as the indetermination of certain provisions of the Law. For this reason, but primarily because of the re-organization of the fisheries inspection at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, this amendment and addition of the Law are proposed in an emergency procedure. In addition to the changes in the structure and jurisdiction of the Authority of the State Administration, the harmonisation of the Law with those of the State Administration should be carried out accordingly. It is estimated that the current law should respect the fishing trends in Eruopa more, stimulate the fish, especially the young. In order to develop their concern for the protection of nature and the environment, as well as for fishing ethics. On the basis of this final proposal, the Law removes the perceived indetermination of certain articles of the Law. It harmonizes the Law with the strategy of agriculture and fisheries of the Republic of Croatia. It harmonizes fishing on protected parts of nature. It brings legal regulations into line with the trends of sport fishing in Europe. It provides more quality protection and protection of the fishing treasures of the Republic of Croatia mainly special habitats. It provides better funding for the protection and management of fishing waters. It strengthens the role of science and structure in the management of fisheries. It enables disabled people of the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia to fish on all liquids with one permit. It better solves the delivery of data in fishing and aquaculture. It introduces a mandatory respect for the organisational structure and decision of the fishing rights officer in the purchase of licences. It regulates the obligations of Croatian and foreign citizens to pass fishing exams and buy licenses. It regulates inspection supervision by introducing a fishing inspection taken over by the State Inspectorate, and is now set up in the special department of the Fisheries Management Department of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy. With regard to the abovementioned Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, it supports the final proposal for the Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25055	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25056	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on freshwater fishing was adopted unanimously by the Croatian Parliament in the previous meeting, i.e. in 2001, which was certainly proof of the preparation of the bill. Over the past three years, all the sublaws that have ensured the application of this Law have been passed. Fishing rights have been granted on all fishing waters, based on two public invitations to tender. Under the same law, economic foundations and annual plans are developed to ensure quality management of the fish fund of our waters, all in accordance with the Law. Fishing services which control fishing and water conditions are also set up to ensure legality on the ground. I understand the promoter who is seeking to correct and clarify the provisions of a number of articles that will better regulate the management of the fish fund of our waters and make it easier to apply in practice. This proposal for the Law is a normal sequence of professional work, as changes are introduced gradually, i.e. this proposal goes one more step further and more precisely than the 2001 Law. The amendment of this law was in the plan of the former ministry of past term, and this law is a continuity in work. In preparation for this presentation, I did not have the exact information from the RES, on the state of freshwater fishing from 2003, so I would take advantage of this moment to remind the Secretary of State and Assistant that he should have delivered an annual report in the Croatian Parliament in 2003 on the state of agriculture popularly called "green report" so I would ask the Secretary of State to pass it on to Mr. Minister. As chairman of the board, I've sent a few rushes, and I believe that this will come in the course of this session, given that it's a legal obligation. The assessment of the situation of this proposal does not provide data on the production of freshwater fisheries as well as an assessment of the value of fish catches. Last year, as far as I know, the catastrophic drought in Croatia produced a modest 3,000 tonnes of freshwater fish, and about 12,000 tons of cereals are spent on this modest production. Five thousand and 500 tonnes of freshwater fish were raised for comparison in 2002. To mitigate the consequences of last year's drought, 400 million kuna was allocated from the state budget and some of these funds were also spent on Croatian fish producers. The first intervention was in the money and by the ministry's resolution was of course due to a number of other activities, such as faster compensation than cormorant damage. That's one problem we've been dealing with for a long time. Of course, as they themselves would recover from a natural disaster as it is already here and have been noted, unfortunately, which hit them hard. Unfortunately, we must conclude that no other activities have taken place in this year except that if we look at the globally halved incentives from the rest of the ministry and the fish producers and especially all other producers have been destroyed, however, by the elemental disaster of the reduction of incentives that occurred due to too little part of the budget foreseen for the payment of incentives, of course not to the change and in the rebalancing itself where there was a possibility after all the justifications we heard. The law itself has an indemnity in Article 26, which provides for an annual quota of food for cultivation as a supplement to Article 47. The law on freshwater fishing. The HSS representative club provides an amendment proposing to delete this article because the specificity of freshwater fish production is not possible to predict the annual food consumption. It is, in fact, a climate conditioned semi-intense production with a combined diet and a large consumption of cereals produced on domestic surfaces, which may result in the non-consummation of the quota envisaged and the bill does not provide for that. On the other hand, in accordance with the fisheries strategy and agriculture as well as the national fish production and consumption programme in the Republic of Croatia, it is envisaged to increase the production of freshwater fish. More food is needed to produce more, which would require a re-examination of the licence. This also interferes too much with the business policy of each economic operator. I hope that the promoter will have the understanding and see his mistake and accept this amendment. This bill encourages fishing tourism, simplifies the purchase of permits and particularly regulates the rights of fishermen with disabilities of the Homeland War of the Republic of Croatia. We are also glad to see that at least in freshwater fishing, amendments to fishing associations are accepted, thus improving the law. The law still regulates inspection controls for the takeover of powers to exercise control over the application of the freshwater fisheries law by the State Inspectorate. The agriculture ministry has established a special department of fishing inspection in the administration awaiting the adoption of this law in order to begin with what we estimate positive. The proposed amendments to the law are in a good way defined by the jurisdiction of fishing inspectors as conditions for the exercise of supervision. In addition to this, gentlemen, I would like to refer you to the current article 70. The law on freshwater fisheries which does not change and which addresses the issue of carrying out economic fishing on the sweet waters of the Republic of Croatia for natural and legal persons in the best possible way. This article shall be prohibited, in full, from fishing for foreign natural and legal persons other than those established by the international contract. For this reason, gentlemen, I wonder why we do not solve the issue of fishing for foreigners in our fishing sea, but this has to be done in public because of the ill-prepared text of the new Maritime Fisheries Act. I think that in this House of Highs, we must insist firmly on protecting the natural resources of our homeland and not on offering them to others, thus jeopardizing our own 1,000-year existence on the Adriatic that has been left to us as a vow by our ancestors since our arrival in these areas. And let me be allowed and I think it's important to mention for sure that fish don't drink wine but I have to say when it comes to wine it's Martinia today and it would be extremely good and I believe it wouldn't hurt the fish of those 0.05 proms. Our law has long, long, long stood. I believe that by looking at the laughter of my colleagues here and on the right and on the left, they'd all be happy to support it, and I can see that the government is doing something informally, but they've just come to the 0.03, we're going to increase them to 0.05, so I believe everyone will be happy about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25057	Thank you very much. And St. Martin would support that. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25058	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Croatian Party Rights Club supports this initiative on amendments and additions to the Law on freshwater fisheries but we must not mention and express any deep concern about the existing state in freshwater fishing in Croatia. In one word, the situation is bad and alarming. Our ponds are collapsing, they're devastated, and I have to say that in that economic branch, privatisation has also done its part. The big problem is not to worry about existing ponds because, unfortunately, in the case of large droughts and minimal water shortages, water cleanness and protection from industrial natural pollutants results in a large sea of freshwater fish. According to our knowledge and according to the requirements for the construction and opening of new or refurbishment of existing ponds, Croatia could export largely freshwater fish and not in part import. Aquaculture or cultivation of freshwater fish can be a major economic branch. I note this occasion that until the 1990s we were also fish suppliers to NATO needs in the territory of the Republic of Germany. In Croatia there are a large number of seines, large excavations of minerals and mineral wealth are executed, and unfortunately these areas are not turned into ponds and aqua culture, but detached glids as large water predators. In the part of the amendments and additions regarding the article in which the rights of Croatian wartime wartime disableds from the Homeland War, the Croatian Party of Rights Club welcomes the proposal of Article 14(5), where defined. It is also known that in the past term there have been attempts to amend the law by making it real to Croatian military disabled people from the Homeland War in a way that has diminished and taken away the fact that, fortunately, God has not passed. It is now defined exactly as the Croatian Party of Rights before, that is to say, that Croatian military, wartime wartime people of the Homeland War can get directly from the Ministry, i.e. from the authorisation officer for sport fishing for all these homes in the Republic of Croatia without having to be members of sports fishing associations. These amendments and additions to the laws under the Government's proposal, i.e. the Ministry of freshwater fisheries, were designed to create legal assumptions for, as proposed by the establishment, i.e. the transfer, I would say fishing inspections from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, because according to the establishment of the State Administration, it is prescribed that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is carrying out inspection tasks relating to freshwater fisheries which we hold unwell. Because this and this proposal make it clear that the Ministry will only oversee itself in its work that we hold cannot be objective and is not a quality solution. Such a solution has also been made in inspection and in Croatian forests where inspectors will, for example, Croatian forests within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy to oversee the work in Croatian forests which we also hold is not a quality solution. All of this has so far been stated and proposed and accepted if this Law will enable better management of fishing waters and contribute to the protection of the fish fund. However, I must point out that we do not know exactly what our fish fund is in Croatia and what its future development is like. Sincerely believing that this law will do so, the Croatian Party's Club of Rights will also support this law in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25059	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr Krešimir Ćosic. Here you go. He gave up, he gave up Right here. [[Intruder: He hasn't even answered.]] Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik, go ahead. He's gone and he's basically losing his right. Mr. Stazic. Thank you, too. Mrs. Ljubica Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Basic Law on freshwater fisheries adopted this Assembly in 2001. The applicant says that certain shortcomings have been observed during the application in certain articles that have prevented better quality management of fishing waters and the protection of fish stocks. In principle, I think it is good to correct what has proved to be a flawed or wrong solution in practice. And by passing the basic law, we made a mistake when we did not allow fishermen, natural persons to perform non-commercial fishing as an additional profession. We have missed the fact that along the Danube and Sava rivers live people who are not professional fishing and fishing do not deal commercially. They are almost regularly engaged in other affairs but are traditionally tied to the river they live by using its wealth. In their spare time, a few fishermen mostly for their own needs but a possible surplus of course know how to sell and thus fix the poor home budget. That's how the present inhabitants live, that's how their fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers lived. It's simply a tradition that didn't harm the fish fund and for the people who deal with it, it was a pleasure and a benefit that isn't great, but it does exist. Such tradition also has support for the population who, although living on the riverbank, do not fish even out of a hobby but can include fish in their menu precisely thanks to those who are not professional fishermen but are a little fishing. Since I am a lover and a volunteer prisoner of all the dearer Sava rivers, I am well aware that there are no professional fishermen in my part of Posavina, but I also know that, for example, a good share of the inhabitants of the village of Davor and Orubica survive precisely because of such fishing. They are generally peasants whose nature has not given quality land or enough land to live on from agriculture. They always lived partly from the earth and partly from the water. By the time of the Homeland War, they had sailed ships and had known shipmen, for known reasons they had lost their jobs and returned to their homes, and now they have neither employment nor can live on agriculture. Little is known that only the village of Davor has given 750 defenders of the Homeland War who are moving out of Davor today because they have nothing to live on. We wronged these people when we passed the Law on freshwater fishing because we did not have in mind existing specificities. We banned them from fishing, and what did we get? We didn't protect ourselves from the fishing fund because the Sava River is the border between the two states. Citizens of another country unbounded fishermen and fish do not know the state line in water. So we haven't achieved anything to protect the fish fund, but we've done damage to our citizens. Now is our chance to correct our mistake, to allow these citizens non-commercial fishing as an additional occupation. These people do not require the state to allow them to do so for free, they are willing to pay an annual flat-rate fee that must be reasonable and cannot be an approximate level of obligations paid by professional fishermen. That by any chance this proposal for a law in the first reading, I am convinced that the motioner would accept my comments, is now the only way to correct the amendment. The amendments submitted by counterpart Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club are already on the benches and I will not write my own. But I call on the motioner to make a precedent and accept reasonable proposals regardless of what comes from opposition deputies because not accepting them will not harm the opposition but people who probably belong to all the political colors and even now ruling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25061	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. He'll make up his mind on Friday, I guess.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25062	Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on freshwater fisheries. First, we will vote on whether we will be voting on amendments that the government has tabled outside the deadline. Who's in favour of discussing and voting the amendments that the government has filed outside the deadline? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 79 votes for and 2 against, it has been adopted to debate and vote on amendments to the government that have been filed outside the deadline. Minister Petar Cobankovic. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25063	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Amendment 1 to Article 2 It's about editing expressions, improving expressions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25064	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 1. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 1 to the government accepted by 79 votes and 2 against. Excuse me two abstentions, 79 for and 2 abstentions. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25065	Amendment 2 to Article 3 In a clear way, fishing is determined in protected parts of nature.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25066	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 2. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that the amendment has been accepted by 80 for 1 abstention. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25067	Amendment 3 to Article 5 of the words "and the annual plan" shall be left out as surpluses.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25068	Thank you. I'm opening up an argument. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting Amendment 3 to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 3 accepted by 79 votes for 2 abstentions. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25069	In Article 7, the words "and the annual plan" are also lagging out as superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25070	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. I am voting on Amendment 4. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 4 accepted by 79 votes in favour and 2 abstentions. Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25071	In Article 9, the sentence is deleted because it is superfluous.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25072	It's too high. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 5. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'd like some water, please. I find Amendment 5 accepted by 79 for two abstentions. Amadman 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25073	In Article 14, too many words are deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25074	Nice. I'm opening a debate. I'm in the middle of a debate. I am voting on Amendment 6 which deletes the superfluous words. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 6 accepted by 78 for, 1 against, and 2 abstentions. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25075	In Article 15, which regulates that trophy fish specimens are exempted from the obligation to mark by cutting off the lower tail fin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25076	I'm opening a debate about cutting off the bottom of the tail fin. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the amendments to the vote. Who's in? Tonci v. Restraint? I am voting on Amendment 7. Who's in? Against? Abstained? And there go the lower parts of the tail fin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25077	No, they don't stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25078	They're staying. I find that the unanimous amendment has been passed with 80 votes. Amendment 8. That this leaves out the word "new" as an extra part of the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25079	Yeah. Amendment 8 to Article 17 It also leaves out the excess part of the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25080	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm giving the vote to leave out the extra part of the text. Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that unanimity and amendment 8 has been adopted by 80 votes. Amendment 9?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25081	This Regulation shall enter into And here, in a transparent way, the right to recover funds that have not been used to invest in the fishing area has been arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25082	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 9 passed with 80 votes. Amendment 10? I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 9 passed with 80 votes. Amendment 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25084	This Regulation shall enter into And here, in a transparent way, the body's re-arranged, expression, the body of the competent one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25085	It's Amendment 11, now we're on Amendment 10. Amendment 10 also leaves out the word new, as an extra part of the text. Ten.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25086	Ten. This Regulation shall enter into In a transparent way is the reorganized expression of the body....
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25087	That's Amendment 11, that's Amendment 11, in a transparent way. We're ten. Do we have the same table as the minister? These are your amendments. Okay. Nomotechnics. Who's for Amendment 10? Against? Restraint? 79 for, uh, one against, uh, the adopted amendment. You have explained Amendment 11. That's it, in a transparent way. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 11 accepted by 80 votes. Unanimity. Amendment 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25088	In Article 31(3), paragraph 3 is deleted as surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25089	I have the Ministers of Amendment 12 on Article 30. 12 in Article 30. It's the same eraser. Now, Amendment 12 to Article 30.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25090	The word "was" is deleted because it is superfluous for a linguistic and grammatical reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25091	That's it, then. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 12. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 12 accepted by 79 votes and 1 against. Amendment 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25092	In Article 31(3), paragraph 3 is deleted as surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25093	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 13. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 13 accepted by 78 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Amendment 14?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25094	In a transparent manner, the allocation of funds on behalf of the fishing fee has been arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25095	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 14. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 14 adopted unanimously with 79 votes. Amendment 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25096	The proposed amendment amended in part the statement in accordance with the observations and proposals of the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25097	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing up. Who's for Amendment 15? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 15 unanimously adopted with 80 votes. Amendment 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25098	This amendment complies with the criminal provisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25099	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 16. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find Amendment 16 accepted by 80 votes for and 1 abstention. Amendment 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25100	This amendment lists the full name of the Law and the number of "National Journals" in which it was published.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25101	I'm opening a debate. I'm finishing up the rsar. I am voting on Amendment 18. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that, with 79 votes for and 1 abstention, Amendment 17. And Amendment 18 to the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25102	Excessive words in the article were deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25103	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment 18. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 80 votes to be adopted and this amendment to the government. We now have a few amendments to Agent Mate Arlovic. Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25104	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25105	I'm opening a debate. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thanks, he didn't get any votes. The second amendment also serves as a representative of Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25106	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25107	There is no representative, so we vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get any votes. 3. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25108	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25109	Thank you. Amendment 3 becomes an integral part of the Law. 4th Amendment of Representative Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25110	It's partially accepted. We accept paragraph 3 in the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25111	In the part where the station is accepted, an integral part of the Law, and about the part that is not accepted, since there is no representative, we must vote. Who's for the unacceptable part of the amendment? No one. Unaccepted part of the amendment by MP Arlovic, Amendment 4 has not received a single vote. 5 Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25112	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25113	It becomes an integral part of the law. Six representatives of Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25114	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25115	Since there is no representative, who's in favour of the amendment? No one. He didn't make it. Amendment 7 to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25116	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25117	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8 to the representative of Mate Štimec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25118	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25119	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 9 to the HSS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25120	It is not accepted, in fact it has been consumed in the previous amendment. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25121	Is it consummated? Then he's not being voted on. 10 amendments to Agent Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25122	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25123	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 11 representatives of Mate Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25124	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25125	No MPs, we have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? The amendment didn't go through, he didn't get any votes. Ministers, you have accepted amendment number 8 of Mate Štimec's MPs and become an integral part of the law, then you have stated that the 9th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HSS reads "Article 26 is deleted." Consumed with the previously adopted amendment, the previously adopted amendment of MP Mate Štimac reads: "Article 26 extends the indent 2.", and these suggest, the HSS Club to delete the entire article 26, so it is not consummated, we must vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25126	Excuse me. This may be considered to be partially accepted because this is stated in coldwater ponds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25127	Yes, we do. Who's in favor of Amendment 9 of the House of Representatives of the HSS? Thank you. No one. The amendment didn't go through. I am voting on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on freshwater fisheries. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that in unanimity with 81 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on freshwater fisheries is adopted in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25128	Thank you. Let's go to the next item on the agenda then. And tomorrow we start with this item of the agenda - Annual Financial Reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development (HBOR) for 2003; In accordance with Article 11. The law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development The Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development submitted that report. You received the report in the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received reports at the session and the Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. HBOR's chairman, Mr. Antun Kovachev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25129	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will try to be brief in the light of the time and bring out what Croatia's most basic Bank for Reconstruction and Development was doing in 2003. Introductoryly, I would just like to say that our basic task is to promote the development of the Croatian economy through 4 major programmes: financing and export insurance, encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises and financing large economies and infrastructure. We pay particular attention to regional development, i.e. to the more balanced development of the Republic of Croatia. We must point out here that this 2003 HABOR financial report confirmed the independent audit opinion of the international audit "Deloit and Tush" in March 2004, so this year. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in July, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget on 14 September and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction on 23 September. The main financial indicators in HABOR's business in 2003 are that at the end of last year we passed, I would say a magic figure of 10 billion kuna of the total balance sheet sum, so at the end of last year we had 10 billion 337 million kuna of total balance sheet sum, which is about 23% higher than the previous 2002. Total gross loans were around 10 billion and 600 million kuna, which is 30% higher than the previous year. And the capital of 4 billion and 107 million, which is about 40% of the total balance sheet amount in the last year. The total expenditure was around 683 million, and the total, I apologize, total income of 683 million and total expenditures of 516 million kuna. So the profit at the end of last year was 167 million kuna. I must stress that we are trying to keep the real value of the capital the state has entrusted us with and is not our primary task of showing great profits and I must stress that within these 167 million gains is about 106 million exchange rates. So the real profit is somewhere around 60 million kuna, which we think is fine given our original goal of developing the economy. The basic activity of HABOR or our business in 2003 can be seen through only two figures. Total approved loans amounted to 3 billion 877 million kuna, and total business activity, so total loans and total guarantees were around 5 billion 960 million kuna. HABOR had the primary task of restoring first the war in the economy in the first or first years of the project. Then we started since 1994 to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, and since 2000 we have been with the development bank and the export bank of the Republic of Croatia. And I must say that of these 16 different credit programmes in our tasks, the most active export programme, the HABOR credit programme was a programme for crediting the preparation of goods for export and export of goods that increased by 70% compared to the previous year. Export business insurance also increased by 81% from commercial and political risks compared to 2002. We have spent the initial programme for the third year directly, not through business banks, because simply the business banks for this most risky programme had no interest or preference. In order to reduce the risk, we organized special workshops for beginner entrepreneurs and through these workshops or first study of entrepreneurship about 1500 applicants and beginner entrepreneurs. The new programmes in last year were indicative credit lines to banks and customers for the purchase of Croatian goods and services, popularly in Croatia called "Hermes Line" on those famous German these framework lines and a programme to provide investment abroad from political risks so as to ensure political risk for those Croatian companies that want to expand in either the region or other parts of the world by seeking to increase exports through this vision. The biggest innovation in the last year was the reduction in interest rates for exporters in the area of special state concern. Until last year, the interest rate was 3%. We cut it really to a minimum interest rate of 2% at the annual level. For the other exporters, we reduced the interest rate from 5.5 to 4% and for all other users from 7.5 to 7%. And a new premium insurance system has been introduced against political and commercial risks where they are secured lower, lower charges for exporters. In late 2003 the first information centre in Split opened, and I hope we will have two new information centres, in Osijek and Pula, and we are still planning to open in Rijeka and Varazdin. We signed six new agreements on co-operation with export banks, export credit agencies, which at the end of last year was 21 signed agreements. Here's what would be in the shortest lines of what we did, what we did in 2003. I wouldn't bother you with a series maybe for, for parliamentary representatives of irrelevant details, but here I am going to be there and very gladly answer all your remarks and questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25130	I thank the director, Mr. Antun Kovacev. Now does the Committee rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Professor Dr. Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25131	I thank the director, Mr. Antun Kovacev. Now does the Committee rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Professor Dr. Slaven Letica. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Joseph Leco. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25132	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25133	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the HBOR's financial report for 2003. The activities of HBORA during the observed period were consistent with the work guidelines and focused on financing and insurance of exports, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, the financing of infrastructure projects and the development of economic activities. The strategically monitored bank has encouraged the development of areas of special state care, the island through its programmes, and has channeled funds that are important on our path towards full membership in the European Union. The bank and the financial operations were successful, we have heard here that the total revenue of €683.3 million was realised. The 516.5 million kuna gap, and the financial result is therefore a positive amount of 166,8 million kuna. Its structure has also been heard, therefore, to be said that 106 million kuna refers to exchange rate differences. HBOR is an export bank of the Republic of Croatia, which provides one-stop shop financing and export insurance services to Croatian exporters. The best results were achieved by crediting the preparation of the goods for export and achieving a 70% growth compared to 2002. It is also an incentive rate of 4% for exporters and it is a favourable way of financing. NEWS in support of exporters are credit lines to banks and customers that facilitate and speed up the purchase of Croatian goods and services on foreign markets. It's like we heard so-called. Hermes lines. Insurance of export transactions on behalf of and for the account of the Republic of Croatia is becoming increasingly important in promoting the competitiveness of Croatian exports in particular at risk markets. The HBOR thus recorded an increase in secured exports of 81% compared to the previous year, and the number of countries for which the insurance was granted increased from 14 to 22 countries. Without exports, it would be difficult to make progress on the economy. I would also like to point to the development role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Small and medium-sized HBOR business is encouraged through several credit programmes. Interest rates shall be appropriate and consistent with the areas and purpose of lending. The Bank draws attention to even regional development, and for areas of special state concern and islands it has less conditions when granting credit. HBOR also credits beginner entrepreneurs and this is one of the most risky programmes. Future beginners have no balance and no business experience. For them, the bank organizes workshops on which it acquires initial knowledge of entrepreneurship. HBOR should continue to organise such workshops for entrepreneurs as small and medium-sized enterprises are able to achieve good results in production and export within a relatively short period of time and thus contribute to new employment. When we talk about the bank's development role, it should point out that the HBOR has also funded a project to rebuild the Ernestinovo and Gerjavinac electricity system. This funding has enabled Croatian companies to get jobs and participate in the implementation of this complex project. We have recently witnessed, according to experts at the most important European energy event of the year, the reuniting of the European electricity system through Croatia by releasing the work of the Ernestinovo trans-European station. This investment will also extend the possibility of trading electricity and the integration of Southeast European countries into the European Union's electricity market. The HBOR contributes to the development of the economy through a programme of developing economic activities under which it granted loans of 831.2 million kuna in 2003. These funds focus primarily on modernising production capacity through the acquisition of new equipment for the introduction of new technologies, new products with the aim of reducing business costs and increasing competitiveness. In order to contribute to the development of the Croatian coast, HBOR agreed in cooperation with the German Development Bank to refurbish and expand the water supply and disposal capacity of EUR 37 and a half million. The HBOR continues as a development bank for Croatian exporters, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, helping major economic operators to achieve jobs and their advisory role. We believe that the financing and export insurance business and support for small and medium-sized enterprises as well as other activities of the bank contributed to the development of the Croatian economy, and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I propose that we accept the annual report of the HBOR for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25134	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25135	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We at the HSS Club will also be happy to accept the HBOR report for the past year, as we are pleased with what it says in the opening explanation of the bank's transformation, from the Bank for Reconstruction to the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because it has been through the implementation of these projects from export financing, monitoring the small economy, monitoring the local infrastructure that bank has succeeded in such an intention. We are also satisfied with the incomes achieved, i.e. expenditure and the profits of 166 million kuna made by a team of 210 people. The credit potential put on the market last year of 3 billion and 900 million kuna is good, especially if the guarantees are added up to 5 billion and 800 million kuna. The biggest interest rate was 7%, and the special quality is for those who export, who have total income and exports up to 30% where actually the interest was 4%. In this way, in the last year, a 670 million kuna loan was granted for export promotion. However, what we are not satisfied with are the events of this year, I doubt that we will gladly accept the HBOR's 2004 report, as all these processes have stopped the signed stand by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund. I will remind you, thanks to such an arrangement, HBOR has received a cap on the debt of EUR 100 million and has also received a limit in the placements that weighs about EUR 200 million. When we add each other together, it's almost a billion kuna restrictions that apply to HBOR placements actually this year. In this way, a fundamental question arises whether, by the name of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, a quasi budget fund or the rights of a bank. I believe that she is the real bank, regardless of what has the national sign, and I wonder what it would look like if the HBOR was in, in fact, that the commercial banks were in the position of the HBOR, so that the government was under pressure from the International Monetary Fund and one of the commercial banks obliged to stop payments for a billion kuna or not to be charged abroad for some 100, 200 million euro. Obviously this decision has been made beyond the positive banking legislation, it is a political decision and it is unfavourable that it was also made at the moment when the Parliament was sitting, when this stand by arrangement was signed, because I doubt that we here because of these indicators that we all positively talked about would allow a simple approach to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, this story does not stop, the International Monetary Fund, or the Government, has also accepted a restriction on the issue of guarantees, because the International Monetary Fund has conditioned that guarantees for all loans are not accepted, especially those guarantees provided by the Government for agriculture, and for the textile industry, i.e. for some companies that have not successfully returned loans to the end, so state guarantees are also charged. The most important thing in this report and what happens in HBOR is the monitoring of exports, and fortunately from production, meaning from the purchase of repromation and to the financing of ino buyers, there are four programmes. One was delivered in 98 and three were delivered from 2000 to 2003. In the last year alone, the report for exporters was placed 750 million kuna or as we can read 2 and a half times more than a year ago. For the first seven months of this year, we also have a great interest in a billion and 900 million kuna of approved loans for exporters, but we have one. This big problem is called the grant fund for preferential export financing which actually enables this kind of cheap lending, because we do not have enough security in the budget for these purposes. I will tell you that in 2000, 23 million kuna was allocated for those purposes, a year after that 157 million kuna, in 2002 180 million kuna, in 2003 240 million kuna, and in this year only 165 million or other words compared to last year 75 million kuna. Already in August, we actually missed more than 5 million kunas in order to continue to track exporters, better said so that we could subsidise interest on those who use HBOR loans. A fundamental question, in fact, that I want to ask myself and you, which is why we didn't rebalance the budget just in that position, in order to strongly undermine exports, to continue to place these credit lines at interest of 2 and 4%, respectively. I guess that's not why we're here because no one asked. The finance minister is in a double role, manages the budget, and so is the president of the HBOR Supervisory Board, and we expected the initiative to come from that direction and for that reason. I will also remind you that in the previous break-up we also had credit lines that accompanied little entrepreneurship so that in three years, exporters at the rate of 4.5% received 620 million kuna credits, and those who deal with tourism in a small economy received 820 million kuna credits. These credit lines are also no longer available, the sum of a billion and 500 million euro. However, just as money should be found in the economy sector for budget rebalancing, I suggest we think about it that way. At the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, only 17 million kunas were spent in the small economy sector. Of which 6 million kuna per salary or 10% budget. At the position of the same ministry, there are 6,897,000 kunas, and the position is called, encouraging exports. Using zero, we haven't spent a single kuna in the first six months of this year on those purposes. First my proposal or better said appeal goes that way. Let's not just declare ourselves and strongly stand up for exporting, exporters here in the Parliament, take advantage of these good trends that came from the results of HBOR activity back several years and some other credit lines and secure that money in the Subsidisation Fund that is unusually needed, unusually important by the end of the year to have good trends in exports as so far. That is why I call on you to try to secure this money through the Ministry of Finance, and through the budget rebalance, because the loans in HBOR that are in the function of phesing exports stand and next year we will talk a little differently about the results of HBOR's business, but of course without the guilt of the administration and the people who work there, but we will only be guilty of not recognising this phenomenon and of not reacting correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25136	Thank you. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then he's Mr. Agent Ante Markov. He's gone. Good to see you, too. Mr. Representative Jura Bitunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25137	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the Management of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be brief since most of my colleagues aren't there, they're not present, so I'll reciprocate my presentation, or I'll say a few thoughts, a few ideas that I consider important. First of all, I would say that Mr. Pecek is already threatening the report, the future report of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for 2004. I wouldn't comment on it. I just kind of underline it. I join all committees, committees and in, when it comes to assessing the work of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the development for 2003 personally joins such thinking and I believe that the HBOR has fulfilled its obligation over the past 12 years, a commitment drawn by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to the establishment of the Bank itself. We can say that HBOR acted in two directions. One is in terms of resolving municipal and other infrastructures on Croatia's Republic and the other when it comes to the economy itself. I can transfer all units of local self-government from the Cetin region when it comes to the placement of funds that occurred over the past period, meaning until this year, so I can say that a total of 255, cca 255 million is placed on the territory of the town of Sinja, Vrlika, Trilja and other units of local self-government. From that in the municipal infrastructure cca 55 million, and when it comes to smaller activities, they amount to 35 million kuna. Total, total, I'll repeat 255 million kuna. However, we have another problem, and it is related to the development of water supply, which is what my colleague Rebic was talking about, that is, asked a parliamentary question, related to the resolution of the Croatian Bank's loan, the obligation of local self-government units to the loans of HBOR. De facto these are our obligations towards Croatian heredians which fully service obligations towards HBOR., but a total of these funds 70% waste on local self-government units. And there it was done, I would say it was not made, but it was made a major failure in view of the units, and I would say the injustice, given the individuals of the local self-government used to resolve the water supply and disposal loans of the World Bank to which, where Croatia is, in these cases, the Croatian state, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia has made all its commitments. I would, therefore, appeal, take advantage of the opportunity, although this is in some way out of the context of the very point of the agenda, to have the government find certain solutions and take appropriate steps, together with Croatian waters, to resolve this issue. I will mention that, when it comes to the economy, so far the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has placed some 37, cc 37 billion kuna in the Croatian economy and whatever it is the state bank, I believe it has led one correct and independent policy, and on that side the President of the Board and other employees of my congratulations. The role of the bank is not only in monitoring economic activities but, as many, some colleagues have said, in consulting, providing information, information on the ino market, both economically and politically, and I believe that the bank has also played its part. I would especially like to praise the efforts of HBOR and HUP, the Croatian Employers' Association when it comes to export programmes that are now, where certain workshops will now be held and I think it will be another step towards the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to get as close as possible to business people, especially those who do, who are doing first steps when it comes to the economy. I would especially like to stress the following. 91% of the Croatian banking system is privatised and is privately owned. It's no problem to get a consumer loan from any of these banks. If you want to buy a car, your door is wide open and things are solved quite quickly and easily. However, if you want to open, run some crafts, some production is then put on many obstacles, the conditions that our businessmen cannot bear and in this sense I believe that the counterweight to such a policy is precisely HBOR may be possibly the Post Bank and it is also the obligation of the Government to try in the time ahead to respond to these challenges and in some way that the financial system of Croatia is as effective as possible in order to start importing and win markets, but thank God with quality and products themselves. The role of HBOR in the future will certainly play no matter what Mr. Pecek said, a significant role this year and next, mainly in the coming years. I believe that state budget funds should be more significant in terms of interest subsidies so that loans for the Croatian economy are more favourable... to loans and the placement of HBORs. Of course, environmental projects and infrastructure at all will be one of the tasks of our development bank, and in this direction I am sure that the management of the Croatian Bank will respond to new challenges. Once again, I want to do the best in my work and I congratulate you on the total so far, not just in 2003, but in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25138	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first replica is Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25139	Thank you very much. I'd be happy if Mr. Bitunac had otherwise understood my exposure rather than as a threat, he'd be happy if he shared I could worry actually that in HBOR it stopped with the approval of the loan somewhere in August for exporters in subsidized interest. The joy of it is very simple. In a fund that is now serving to subsidise interest, there is no more money, and there is no money because we have allocated 75 million kuna this year, and I am undermining it once more, less money than last year. In last year, 240 million kuna, this year 166. I would also be happy if both Mr. Bitunac and I and we all advocate that the situation be different and support exporters as we have supported them over the past three to four years. As for the crafts, Mr Bitunjac also tried to be naughty there, however thanks to the amendments to the Law on crafts I will remind him that today it is possible to open the craft in Croatia within one day where we have a craft register in electronic form so that if someone opens in Gospić or Dubrovnik crafts within one day the registration is already on the server in Zagreb and over the past three to four years 17 thousand crafts and 60 thousand new jobs have been opened in the sector. In fact, that is not true, and I would ask that we concentrate in the debate not in the form of a threat but in order to be happy when we adopt the HBOR report for the following year, to secure the money needed to subsidise interest in exporters as we have done over the past three to four years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25140	Thank you. Another replica and then Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25141	Dear Mr. Vice President, I think this is a good opportunity for this discussion by my colleague Bitunjac to say that it is during this debate that a good difference is seen between the confusion of the government's economic policy and the successful one in the last government because it is right here, and that's what my colleague Bitunjac has been discussing that thesis and confirmed. In fact, he praised the good work and the good investments involved in the economies of this enterprise and in the part of the exporters. It is particularly interesting to say this now because the government has launched a new promotional action and web portal "Open door HR" where, as one of the most important new projects of this government in the current one, it is precisely an incentive for beginners and these exporters, and just as the chairman of the administration of counterpart Kovac said that this is a project that was implemented both last and previous years, it means no new project of this government. And thirdly, like my colleague Pacek, I would like the funds in the budget to be more significant. I hope that this year, unlike last budget vote, you will also support my, but also the amendments of all other colleagues, which will address the increase in funds for direct transfers to citizens in entrepreneurship and for HBOR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25142	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Jura Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25143	So I won't go in line but I'll give the advantage... What's this about? I believe that the HBOR as a state bank or as any other state institution in any way always exists mechanisms and ways that the Government acts on such systems, but thank God the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development works professionally and it is fat-provided. I don't think we're going to fail, we're going to push about $17.18 million into Victor Lance or some other similar projects, and the bank's going to charge, and that's what taxpayers would do. When it comes to Mr. Pecek, what you mentioned in terms of the threat, I said figuratively. So you're a minority, so you can't even threaten, but I'd say the next thing you know about opening a trade. I wasn't talking about formal opening of crafts, I was talking about getting credit for small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. Therefore, I know very well what obstacles are ahead of them and I see in this the role of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development that these private, craftsmen and entrepreneurs are not in a position to raise expensive loans from existing business banks but rather to be serviced by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25144	Thank you. Let's move on. Next up is Mr. Sima's representative. Here you go. Thank you. And lastly, Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25145	Mr Vice-President, I would like to look back on this report with a few words, in fact, starting with the basic objective with which the bank was founded to encourage the development of the Croatian economy and until this moment when it developed into a successful bank in terms of its business and in terms of support for individual development projects. We have to go back to the time when it was really necessary as such and when it primarily had its basic activity aimed at rebuilding and even that existential part of the renovation of houses because it was founded in one time in 92, and in the experience that Croatia must have one such bank that will support certain projects and that will certainly be support for the Croatian economy. Surely at that time, commercial banks were burdened with their problems, disintegration, restructuring, etc. and could not and were not normally in accordance with market conditions were adapted at all to any incentive of something that was foreign to them as large giants. Now it's a different story. But what I want to point out here. That the bank means it continues to place its credit programmes through commercial banks and that it still does not consider branches normally because it is not the objective of dealing with citizenship. But what am I saying? What I'm trying to say is, in one part, that's what collects that credit program. We see here in the report that the bank is opening info centres, that the info centre in Split is open which is good, it certainly means approaching programs for people. There will be an info centre in Osijek. What difference does it make from the opening of info centers and not opening branches when and thus the funds are invested in buildings, in people, means in equipment. Whether or not the part of the winnings and the retained profits that are definitely reinvested in the programmes could be considered as being marketing means, directed and approached by its programmes and on the ground, since then it is also supporting regional development. What I would also like to point out is that, and what is well noted, the bank is very supportive of regional development, but somehow in this report I lack certain statistics in this period from 92 to now, how much of the region has been involved in how these funds have been used to encourage this regional development. Just as I lack more quality statistics in monitoring activities, i.e. using programmes in the development of certain activities. We see significant numbers in the development, in the promotion of shipbuilding. Surely this is one specific activity, that the Croatian economy's strategy was to safely enter the area, but we do not know what shipyards they have received in this regard and how much policy has affected the use of these funds and how the bank has protected itself from these risks. I know that the report generally mentions this and the bank according to the findings of the State Audit has a good report, it has insurance elements, but we are also interested in a few more life-saving things, who had some conditions to use these programmes, and we know in particular that the shipbuilding has eaten something that has really eaten a lot, a lot of state money and how much of that money has returned and what strategy in this regard was present. What should certainly be commended, it's looking ahead. This is to raise the competitiveness of the Croatian economy in order to join the European Union. It's a program for beginners. Our people weren't, our people were always experiencing credit in another way. I need to get a loan, I need a loan, but the loan is something else. The bank's got the right access here. It's not hard to get credit. It's important to ensure that the loan is returned. So, are you able to repay that loan then you're a successful entrepreneur? That's one of the greatest values. The promotion of small entrepreneurship, the education of young people, will also build on the development of Croatia. I am also interested in how much the bank's activities coincide with the activities of the Ministry of Economy that the department certainly has. Whether a particular coordination has been made there and whether in this sense they work together and how the president of the administration sees it, so that both the bank and the Ministry of Economy spend on the same or similar programmes the same money. So, what kind of cooperation is this particular approach to small entrepreneurs, especially in terms of joint programmes, promotions and performances? Since we see the Minister of Economy promoting its programmes on the ground, I would like to see what HBOR's support is in the sense. Also, agriculture in the structure of activity, so we see that the programmes for tourism, shipbuilding. I don't see any more, I don't see any clearer support for agriculture. I know that agriculture is a painful issue for the Croatian economy, but inevitably in terms of restructuring in order to join the European Union. How we will raise the competitiveness of the programme announced in an ambitious sense by the Minister of Agriculture. Agriculture is another structure and certainly cannot be educated or monitored in a way that has no time, such as one intellectual or one entrepreneur of another character. Where and how the HBOR participates in encouraging these programmes and how much funding is spent in encouraging agricultural programmes, especially now in this sense, when they are meant to be, they are the most needed and also in using those pre-accession funds and other things that must be adapted for the Croatian economy, above all, to somehow stand by European agriculture. And what we heard from Mr. Pecek's debate, I must judge the unsuitable in the least possible way. We discuss the 2003 Report and evaluate it with success. Successful both in the developmental sense and in terms of the bank's business. That we're going to discuss the 2004 report differently, we don't know. In 2004, it's still going on. Which means HBOR can't be a bank, or a para-state bank, a para-state fund. All those moments as long as there are results that indicate that the funds have been spent effectively, but also cannot be allowed to penetrate the state budget, even through the HBOR. And we've all been openly witnesses that just through HBOR the budget was broken and then you have the power to say publicly that you won't allow it. We've all been thoughtful and polite not to say it, but we have to do it again when you've just caused it. Here, thank you very much. I support the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25146	Thank you very much. The first replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25147	Dear Mr. Vice President, I agree with my colleague, Fuček, especially in that part of her discussion, in which she spoke affirmably about programmes for entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs. And I am particularly pleased that my colleague Fuček has assessed this report of the HBOR for 2003 extremely positive, and this actually supports the policy of former Minister Pecek who actually proposed to the Croatian Parliament the law to introduce specific credit lines for young entrepreneurs and beginners. I also hope, fellow Members, that you will support the amendments to the budget this year to return those funds to that level that was in 2003, because your vote has also reduced the funds for beginner entrepreneurs in this year 2004. And as for the 2004 Report in which you referred to what it might be like I have to say that I am also expressing my skepticism since, here is a programme of entrepreneurs-initiators, young entrepreneurs to this day one single June from the State budget was not spent because a successful project that was prepared was not able to continue and not manage it properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25148	Replication response, Mrs. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25149	I have to answer to my colleague, Lugaric, at the replica when she spoke about the 2003 report and that I support, anyway. In the report, there are all data on the success of the bank and the programmes that are certainly the basis for the continuation of certain other development programmes on which this Croatian government works. Whether the success will be in 2004, and it will certainly be so, we will discuss this when the report will be on the Assembly. We're discussing the 2003 report right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25150	Replica, Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25151	Thank you very much. I really don't understand this debate. I think I speak equally when I was in position, now in opposition, and that is for the improvement of the Croatian economy. And if we all realized that we delivered loans to exporters under favourable conditions, so come on, let's try to change something in that direction. So that's what we decide in the Parliament. I also told you where we have the money, that it's not used in the Ministry of Economy over six million kunas, that's exactly what the incentives are. I really wouldn't want it to turn out right now that we're competing politically over things that are notorous. Well, it's not safe if we don't approve that we're going to be more unsuccessful this year than we did in the last year, it's not relevant if we've allocated less money to interest subsidies that we're going to be more unsuccessful. Mrs. Fuchek, I invite you to take this as a fact and as a common struggle to change that situation. I don't say anything politically bad or try to apostrophe as bad if there's still time and desire to change this situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25152	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr. Antun Kovac is final.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25153	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, above all, for the support of this report and the work of the HBOR so far. At the beginning of the introduction, I said that our basic task was to support the development of the Croatian economy before the figures on the financial result and work of the HBOR in 2003. And it is certain that the past government has come across programmes of the former HDZ government that it has implemented in fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and exports and are also continued by today's HDZ Government programmes launched by the coalition government. I wouldn't look back on it because I don't think that makes any sense. We cannot encourage the economy, I would say the figurative branch on which we all sit for the three-year, four-year mandates of any government, because I think it should be particularly in this House above all priorities. I will refer to the observations of the HBOR reduction or the restrictions given to us by the IMF for 200 million kuna this year, which is unfortunately true, and the reduction in the debt of 100 million euros. In fact, the previous government as well as this co-operates with the IMF in order to improve the Croatian economy, unfortunately some measures have to, accept or agree with the IMF, and perhaps especially in the short-term view they do not seem acceptable or seem to be some kind of promotion for the economy. This is a particular problem for HBOR in this year, however, because of these limited resources, we have made stronger criteria and set priorities, primarily the incentive of exports, the promotion of a large economy in particular to restructure the large economy as an increase in competitiveness for both domestic and foreign markets, because unfortunately today we have the same competition on the domestic market as we do abroad, given that we are an open market economy. We therefore gave more placements to exporters and to the large economy, as Mrs. Fuček noted well, given the programmes that the Ministry of Economy is working for small entrepreneurship. I will only give you one piece of information, so I believe that the operation and operation of HBOR in both the active and financial terms will be successful and at the end of this year, namely, we are only for one programme, the basic programme for the promotion of exports, the preparation of goods for export, the export of goods, so by the end of the 9th month invested or loaned a billion and 30 million kuna, that is 465% more than it was in the previous year 2003. I think we've put that priority really well, that's very significant. In addition to this, I will now be immodest to believe that it is not a random number of increasing Croatian exports in the first 9 months of this year of 17%, so it is the first time that it has so significantly increased exports, in 9 months I hope that these three months by the end of this year we will fix that figure further. We also focused on a programme that is very important for exporters and is not related to financing, or lending, it is insurance from political commercial risks, we have issued a shelf of 105% more than we have doubled the number of approved export insurance policies than in the last 2003. I believe that therefore, our transfer of weight lending to the economy exclusively will result in a special export economy resulting in good indicators not only of HBOR, which is not only its purpose but also of the Croatian economy at the end of this current year. As for the lack of funds for export subsidies, it is true that Mr. Pecek has said well that we have already used the subsidies in the 8 months to boost exports but we have not stopped this programme in agreement with the Minister of Economy and with the Government, I hope that, within the framework and please, your support in the 2005 budget, we will compensate for the missing subsidies for the promotion of exports in this year because we are now doing this practically at our own risk, i.e. the risk of HBOR and the possibility of losing in this year. I hope it doesn't come to that. I'll answer Mr. Bitunjec about these water supply loans. We approved these funds so to say in the war, therefore, we felt that these areas of the Cetina region, especially from the municipality of special state care, should also repair water supply systems and build new ones where there was no drinking water at all, unfortunately these are loans and we cannot write those loans off we have to ask for payment as well of all other borrowers. We believe that there will be understanding in the Croatian government but this should again be fought in the budget for next year to secure a bar for those municipalities that are in the area of special state concern that these loans do not return but cover themselves from the state budget. As far as the info centres are concerned, counterpart Fuček said, if we are already investing in the info centre, then we can also enter branches, however, it is a much larger investment, on the one hand, we do not want to compete as a state development export bank with business banks. However, in order to be closer to economies and entrepreneurs, we will open up by the end of this year and start the next five info centres where entrepreneurs will be able to get quality information, and thus we will better control the work of business banks, i.e. their branches in certain areas. As for statistics from 92 until now, this report for the past year, so we didn't share statistics and data for the entire HBOR period. I suppose that's why Mrs. Fuček's comment is probably Vartex and the textile industry relative to the shipbuilding in view of the end you're coming from. I have to say here publicly, I think it is also known, 90% of HBOR shipbuilding loans are covered by the Ministry of Finance guarantee, i.e. the Croatian Government, because we think it is too risky, i.e. I will say openly, the only shipyards that we partially finance without the guarantee of the Croatian Government or the Ministry of Finance is Uljanik, given its indicators or success in relation to other shipyards. We are trying to protect our capital, and so far we have done it successfully, so what is possibly a political or social decision to grant credit we are trying to cover these loans with a state guarantee so as not to come about the write-off or the loss of those funds. Here I think I answered, sorry there's one more question about agriculture. We have already adopted a programme for the development of cattle production in agriculture together with the Ministry of Agriculture we are preparing special programmes for long-term plantings, i.e. lending of olive growing, fruit growing and wine growing, I hope in these two months by the end of the year that we will have finished programmes to do so before Croatia enters the European Union. Another question asked by Mrs Tomasic about insurance on the islands. In this current year, so in 2004, we cut the mortgage by, from 1:2 to 1:1,5, and it's a little banking or financial illogical that we've reduced the mortgage for the area of special state care and islands even lower to 1:1,3 so I think these problems of small entrepreneurship that Mrs. Tomasic told me, I think we're going to solve with HAMAG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25154	Thank you very much. Here's a correction, I'm hoping for a brief Mr. Matusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25155	The correction will be brief, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr. Kovachev said that the only shipyard they didn't ask for was the state guarantee Villa Vuljanik. However, that is incorrect. Because I have to remind myself that in 2001, a loan of 18 million euros was granted, which is not covered by state or other guarantees to Viktor Lentz, and that's true. So, no Vuljanik, but Lenac, and we know that after that, there was a right to property and society, etc., but we're going to talk about it with some other story.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25156	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point and today we're terminating the session, we're continuing at 9.30 tomorrow at the point I announced, and the rest of the points will announce in the morning I hope the President of the Parliament. Thank you very much and good night. Interrupt session at 17.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25157	Annual reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of HABOR for 2003. The debate is closed. I am voting on the decision to confirm the annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development of HABOR for 2003. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the conclusions were accepted by 110 votes for, 3 abstentions and no vote against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25158	We're going to the 7th point of the agenda. - Proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee for the determination of facts in connection with dealing with registration and archival material /transscription / from the Office of Presidents – Proposers of Destiny of Representatives Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25159	Dear Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the Group of Representatives, who we have tabled this proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee and for some of the things we still need to determine and put down and I ask you to postpone tomorrow at half past ten. And I also ask all the club representatives to submit proposals for members of the committee during tomorrow so that everything is complete and that we can discuss it in a way that requires such a serious matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25160	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, proceed with the session! It is on the agenda - Proposal for a Commission of Investigation to establish facts related to the handling of registration and archive materials / transcriptions/ from the Office of the President - Proposers of dozens of MPs pursuant to Article 5(1). The law on investigative committees proposes this act is tens of MPs. I would like to ask the representative of the honourable representative, Antu Djapic, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25161	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Therefore, pursuant to Article 32(1), on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts relating to the treatment of registration and archive materials otherwise known as transcripts from the Office of the President of the Republic, which sent dozens of MPs to the Croatian Assembly on 2 November this year. So we have all witnessed that for years around the transcrypt situation has been spoken of in every way except in the right way, and that is that once the bench starts to fly in the Croatian Parliament. What exactly is happening with the archival structure of the transcripts from the Office of the late President of the Republic of Dr. Franjo Tuđman because it is more than clear to the Croatian public and to our parliamentary representatives that this is a problem that is of exceptional public interest and which deeply and too deep into national security and generally in the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian people. In particular, the indisputable commitment of each country to the protection of its national and national interests in matters of defence of national security. In accordance with its rules in the field of defence of national direct security, the protection of classified data and the storage of registration and archive materials, Croatia is obliged to apply general and specific measures to protect this material, in particular when it comes to data representing a state, military or official secret. State secret information is important for the defence of the state by detecting or swelling that could have serious consequences for the security and defence of the state. Officially, covert sub-categories are important for the defence of the state and national security by detecting which adverse consequences could arise for the security and defence of the state. Registered archive material from the area of defence of national national security which is also marked or represents classified data of a particular type or degree of secrecy cannot be made available to unauthorized domestic, foreign or legal persons before the expiry of a period of 35 years from the date of their creation, except where concrete documents under the prior approval of the Government may be made known. It is indisputable that registration material was created in the Office of the President in the period of Homeland War according to its importance, value and content archive material is of immense importance to Croatia and should be kept as such, with special protection measures prescribed for such archive material. On the contrary, we are witnessing that many transcripts from the Office of the President have been made public in Croatian media significantly before the competent authorities have executed the confiscation of confidentiality with these documents. The final example is the public publication of the Brijuni transcripts since July 31st 1995, which I will talk about later. Protection of the registration and archive material created in the Office of the President who are also classified data from the special state public interest in Croatia and any handling of this material against regulations is a classic case of breach of public interest. Therefore, there are established indications of support for private interest at the expense of the general classical public interest in cases of transaction of transcripts from the Office of the President and it is high time for the Croatian public to find out the full truth about it on the one hand or to take preventive measures to answer, deal with classified information and prevent illegal leaks of classified information on the other. How other countries deal with their registration and archival and when they build it, and when and under what conditions it has been made available to the public, it appears to be an example of Great Britain in the case of their archive material on Bleiburg events. According to their regulations, such material is available to the public after 45 years. The deadline of 45 years did not make it available to the public for the protection of their national interests but extended that deadline for a new 20 years. It's also interesting how media houses protect their archives and don't allow them to be seen and the state doesn't. Therefore, the aim of the Commission's research proposed by a dozen representatives of the Croatian Parliament is to identify all facts related to the handling of both the registration and archive material, so the transcripts from the Office of the President, in particular those which are classified according to their content. The Commission must establish a list of all transcripts in the Office of the President mainly in the area of defence and national security of the State, the application of general and special measures in the storage and protection of transcripts, the circle of persons responsible for their protection and preservation, the circle of persons who could so far come into possession of the same or the contents of those documents. The Commission's obligation would be to establish the facts and whether unauthorised domestic or foreign natural or legal persons are allowed illegal access to those transcripts if it is to whom and with whose approval it has been authorised and whether it has been unlawful or alienating those documents. The investigation committee is obliged to take into account the documents and documents and to obtain important witness statements, find the experts and other evidence necessary to decide on the handling of the registration and archive material from the Office of the President and to examine whether there have been any counterfeiting of certain transcripts in relation to the original tone records or whether there was even a possible counterfeiting and the records themselves which are indicated by the participants of these events. In the procedure conducted by the investigating committee, it shall be the responsibility of any person whose work or behaviour or conduct or failure is being examined, in particular to enable or oblige officials to demonstrate the facts and circumstances of their activities in connection with the handling of the registration and archival material of the Office of the President of the Republic. The investigation committee should pay particular attention to materials, transcripts that have been taken away from secrecy and when, to whom they have been delivered and when, which have been publicly published and when. It is the Commission's obligation to establish the reasons why the records and documents under the former Government's decision of January... The years created in the work of the late President Tudjman did not take over the Croatian State Archives from the Office of the President of the Republic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is a special task of the investigative committee to determine the facts and whether the transcripts from the Office of the President delivered to The Hague in a legal manner, at the request of the prosecution and how certain transcripts illegally entered the media before they were taken away from them. The area of research covers the activities of all state bodies, in particular the Office of the President, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the former Government Office for Cooperation with The Hague, and all legal and natural persons who, in any way, were connected or could be linked or owned or have had insight into that material or may assist in deciding the facts on the handling of registration and archive material from the Office of the President. The study should start from the first correspondence in the Office of Presidents after the death of Dr Tudjman and cover the handling of this material or transcripts during the period from the death of President Tudjman to today with a special emphasis on investigating all cases where transcripts may have been mistreated in an illegal manner. In particular, it is important to identify which general and specific protection measures are applied to the protection and storage of all material and therefore no release of the registration material, which were persons and whether they were responsible for the legitimate storage of that material has been made public. And for the first part of the presentation, it's final. Round of questions. In order to determine the facts relating to the handling of transcripts from the Office of Presidents, the review of the way of possible, unauthorised or unlawful treatment with transcripts would be required to investigate the following. What archival and registration works found in the President's office after Dr. Tudjman's death? What archival and registration material recorded after President Tudjman's death? And whether general and specific measures have been applied in the Office of the President or other authorities for the protection and storage of that material. Who is given insight into the material and on the basis of what powers? Did the material come into possession of unauthorized domestic and foreign natural and legal persons? If it is in what way and with whose failures or warrants? How did the media unauthorizedly come into illegal possession and publicly publish it even before taking away the secrecy of certain material? And are the key transcripts relevant to the tone records and examine the possibility of making counterfeits? And whether the transcripts were legally delivered to the prosecution in The Hague and who was carrying out a copy of the tones in transcripts and in what way and with which general and specific protection measures were carried out. So for an introduction, I think more than enough. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25162	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Club representative of the Croatian Democratic Community. Dear Representative Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25163	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is indisputable that the documentation was made in the Office of the President of the Republic in the period of the Homeland War 1991/95. According to its importance and content, the archive material of special historical importance for the Republic of Croatia and, as such, should and should be kept with the application of specific protection measures prescribed for such an archival tradable, taking into account the fact that a series of documents with “state secret”, “secretly classified” was in the media without prior declassification. That's inadmissible! It's simply not respecting what we often call a legal state. Respect for the rules of conduct in such situations is an element of the construction of the rule of law. The fact is that these documents were published in the Croatian media significantly before the competent authorities carried out the confiscation of confidentiality with these documents. The latest zoning example is the case of public publication of the Brijuni transcripts since 31 July 1995. Any treatment of this material against regulations is a classic case of violation of the rule of law and non-compliance with the rule of law. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support the appointment of this investigation committee of the Croatian Parliament in order to establish facts and true truth. The obligation of this investigation committee is to determine whether unauthorized domestic or foreign, natural or legal persons are allowed illegal access to those transcripts, if and with whose approval? It is also necessary to examine whether there have been counterfeiting of certain transcripts in relation to original tonnes, or whether there have been even possible criticisms from the very records pointed out by many participants in these events. I would like to remind you that on 28 May 2002, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club of Representatives supported the establishment of an investigative committee to examine the legality of the work of the state bodies in connection with the granting, entry of the archive building, the transcripts to the UN Prosecutor's Office in Den Hague. Furthermore, I quote: “I am informing you that at its 23rd session on 20 June 2002, the Croatian Parliament did not accept the proposal for a decision to set up an IAS to examine the legality of the work of state bodies.” This should certainly be emphasized by the fact that there have been organised efforts to prevent such illicit distribution of documents in time. We certainly see some unusual facts, there are transcripts, there are video records, there are no tone records. I'm one of the participants of that first Brijuni meeting since 17 July 1995. He said recently, and General Miljac, he's not on the list. There's no me on the list either, it doesn't matter, but it's important the next fact that after a few days in the "morning list" a photo appears, so there's a video of my face showing up. Therefore, there are documents, there are video records, there are transcripts and they are dosed, they are distributed to whom and at which point they correspond for certain objectives, political objectives, for creating a certain, inadmissible impression. Tonne records are a basic document. I'll say it freely, but I'll say it responsibly. Without the tone, these transcripts mean nothing. There are many reasons why he has every reason to doubt the authenticity of these documents. Maybe I'll just mention some. Unlectured text, termination of sentences, interruption of thoughts, statements by individuals about things they didn't know anything about, about which they never spoke. Certainly the atmosphere in the Republic of Croatia when it comes to such an important document, I would say it is inadmissible, unserious and irresponsible. There's no transcripts in the president's office. After a few days transcripts were found in the president's office. The transcription fan is not fully authentic. In a series of personal conversations with the President of the Republic, I would like to make it clear that he has never, but he has never shown any intrepidness or hatred towards the Serbian people as it says here in these transcripts. He made clear the difference between the rebel Serbs and the Serb people. So there certainly is, I say again, and that will be the case after the first reports of this Committee. The president's speech has never been such a character, and I would say so much about it so far because many witnesses from these meetings will be able to testify in certain parts of these documents that do not respond to reality. What I'd say is particularly important. These documents are placed in a completely unacceptable context. They're putting themselves in the context of something that's trying to be created as part of some new truth about our recent history. The context of a criminal enterprise is created and the real context of the space and time in which the Republic of Croatia was then forgotten. I'll remind you. Then a few days before the Storm, more than 20% of Croatian territory was still occupied, to Split traveled across the Pontovo Bridge which was exposed from time to time shelling, to Dubrovnik for 12 hours and several months to Slavonski Brod more than 5 or 6 hours. Huge damages in the Croatian economy, tourism damage, several months before the start of Operation Storm in Zagreb were falling grenades and what is particularly important, the point of this broader context, then the attack so-called. “Bio-crisis 2”, the first “Bio-crisis 1” took place in 1994. The objective of this biking crisis and the conquest of Bihac was definitely to concentrate all forces, meaning from Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina hostiles near Sisak, Karlovac, etc. Regardless of the various talks and negotiations of Karadzic, Mladic and Martic did not change their intentions and the release of the temporarily occupied territories of the Republic of Croatia, I said, given the damages in the economy, tourism, shelling of the city of Zagreb, a large number of refugees, the release of the Republic of Croatia was the first-class responsibility of all Croatian state institutions, all Croatian citizens at the time. Therefore, the government, the President of the Republic, and finally this institution. Changing and putting these events into context of unacceptable crime stories is part of non-random events but organised and planned. Respecting the context of space and time is a special task of the Croatian Parliament, as well as of all state bodies. And that is why I will once again emphasise and remind you of one key, important document of the Croatian Parliament, which is the Declaration of the Homeland War. Dear gentlemen, Article 7 states: "The House of Representatives of the Croatian National Assembly invites all citizens, state and social institutions, unions, associations and media, and therefore also the media, and obliges all officials and all state bodies of the Republic of Croatia to protect the fundamental values and dignity of the Homeland War as a stock of our civilization's future." Unauthorized and irresponsible manipulation of documents, putting into an inappropriate political and historical context is contrary to the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on Homeland War. Certainly the HDZ Club will not only support the work of this investigative committee today, but what is particularly important should be pointed out that, in accordance with the Declaration on the Homeland War, all Croatian institutions should ensure full support for the quality, serious and responsible work of this commission in one, I trust the common goal of all of us to determine the circumstances of illegal distribution of these documents, but I would say not for personal reasons but for much more serious reasons that threaten the truth about our recent history. It should certainly be that when this commission starts to work, it has an appropriate, serious methodology of work that will guarantee that the results and findings of this commission are one important document that will have its own weight. And historical, but I'd say the political one. Before the conclusion, I would say this: we must also conclude some facts that are indisputable in the work of this investigative committee. It is necessary to establish first and foremost the fact that it was systematic, I would say a planned and organised illegal manipulation of archive material from the president's office. That's a fact. The fact that these documents were delivered to The Hague is not to be proved in the work of this committee, that they were delivered to the Croatian media and all without respect for those basic, basic rules as used and how they are managed and available to this material. The second fact is that archival structure was located in the president's office. We're not going to be doing research on whether or not that material was in the president's office. According to this tour, I'd say this material was used by various inadmissible foreigners to leave the site. Furthermore, it will determine the responsibilities of individuals, institutions, motives and reasons why all this was happening. And I conclude the HDZ Club will give full support to the work of this investigative commission and, in accordance with the Croatian Parliament declaration of the Homeland War, ensure that all institutions make their full professional and responsible contribution to the work of this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25164	Thank you. HNS club PGS, respected deputy president Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25165	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The moment the proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee on transcripts from the president's office is coming is witnessing further degradation of this institution of the Parliament and the adoption of the Parliament in the pre-election arena. This is not the place where you run your election campaign. That transcript leak started when some of you worked in the President's office in 1992, I'm asking you to discipline your colleague a little bit. This transcript leak began in 1992 when some of you worked in the President's office and, as you remember, a transcript of the conversation with, between then-President Tudjman and Jovan Raskovic appeared. The issue of course is extremely interesting and in this respect I agree with the speaker, the leak of the transcripts began from the Office of Presidents, it began from the Office of Presidents in 1992. It is also a very interesting question that says that this would be good and should be explored and that it has already to be explored is how these transcripts were created, where there was even the possibility that these transcripts existed. In what way it was possible and possible that, without the knowledge of the participants in the talks, conversations were recorded in the Office of the President of the Republic and those transcripts were made. That would also be interesting to find out. A large part of the transcript from the Office of Presidents, as you remember, was carried out after the death of former President Tudjman in part and by the criteria of what his family or his son, Miroslav Tudjman, considered and estimated to be a matter of private subjects. So it refers not to political but to private issues. What and how this criterion is applied would also be interesting to establish if, of course, these transcripts could also be obtained. It is obvious from the proposal for the establishment of the commission, it is obvious from how it is supported from, from the representatives of the HDZ Club, that one of the functions of the commission, one of the essential functions, would have been to justify some of the participants of these talks and to try to exculpate from those things that seem at least according to transcripts, were said in these discussions and in those situations. We agree that the context was different, but what is said is said in any context, and that would also be interesting to establish because this, this attempt to justify in this context certain statements or certain things that appear in transcripts or to use the parliamentary investigative committees to reinterpret their own role or their own contribution in these talks, was shown in another way, of course, by the abuse of parliamentary institutions. As for the transcrypt in The Hague, if some of the transcripts and data were available to The Hague, Tihomir Blaskić would never have received 45 years at the first trial and when they became available, it proved that the punishment had been reduced to practically what he had served before. So it's not exculpatory not found not guilty, it's guilty, but at a dose that's incomparably less than what he earned in the first trial and what was judged to be 45 years. So it is obvious that the insight that The Hague and co-operation with The Hague are also the basis of the delivery of documents and full insight into what was really happening has relevance. I would therefore be interested in how and why the unknowing conversations of people who came and participated in these talks were recorded, and then they were disappointed by letting some of these transcripts into the public and leading politics in this way since 92. And I'd be interested in how it's even possible to record conversations without the knowledge of the people involved. I would also be interested in how it was possible that the relevant data had not gone to the relevant places in the first row of The Hague when they were to leave, and when it was necessary to establish full truth. I would be interested to know that the different people who swear to democracy today, the equality of all nations in freedom and public words in Europe are what they were saying back then. But it is not a question of the investigative commission, which is established at the time when the party that is instigating it has its presidential candidate here in Parliament. And this is one of the ways we're going to turn this institution and the pre-election arena so we can compete here. Dear colleagues, if waited 12 years, can wait until after the presidential election. So if you wait 12 years, you can wait until the presidential election is over, and then no one will doubt that this initiative is used to use this assembly, lobbying and campaigning for its own candidate. In 12 years, two months won't make a big difference. And after two months, we will also support the establishment of this commission. And now I'm asking you to at least try to keep the minimum intensity of this institution, and then we'll establish and distinguish the presidential candidates in which they participated in the delivery and manipulation of transcripts. But now let two months make no difference, and let this institution not turn into an arena for pre-election candidate competition. Let them compete in public, let them compete in the media, but let them not exploit Parliament for it. HNS PGS will be against establishing a commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25166	Thank you very much. According to the Law on Investigation Commissions, at the request of a certain number of MPs, it is proposed to set up an investigative commission for each issue of public interest, one is the legality of the work of state bodies. A certain number of MPs have submitted this accordingly, I was obliged to put it on the agenda immediately as President of the Parliament. And he would not agree that because I did so and because according to the Law, this was included in the agenda for the degradation of the Croatian Parliament. Corrections to incorrect allegations, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25167	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Pusic's esteemed parliamentary representative, has argued that the foundation of the investigative commission at this time is exclusive only in the role of the election campaign. I have to realize that's not true. I would like to remind you that the Croatian Democratic Community's Representatives' Club has requested the establishment of an investigative committee to examine the legality of the work of the state's authorities in connection with the granting of concessions to the UN prosecutor's office of the Hague tribunal since 28 May 2002. It is disputed and rejected in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25168	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure respected Vice-President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25169	Thank you. Article 209 was not the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25170	209th cannot be a colleague of Pusic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25171	Yes, an agent can correct an unethical allegation. But this wasn't an incorrect allegation but my opinion of what my colleague had corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25172	Thank you very much. It's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it's about contesting your claim as incorrect. It's not working. It's also about contesting your claim. You have made a certain claim that the other representative has challenged as incorrect. Drugi correction of the incorrect quote by honorary representative Zdenka Babić Petričević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25173	Mr. President, MP Pusic said General Blaskic had received 45 years. First sentence because no documents were available. The first verdict in 45 years was made on the basis of Stjepan Mesic's testimony in the trial against Tihomir Blaskic, on the side of the prosecution before the Hague court from 16 March 1998 to 19 March 1998.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25174	Third Amendment, Honored Representative Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25175	Thank you, Mr. President. A respected colleague said that if the court had had had some documents then Tihomir Blaskic would not have received 40 years. And I say it's completely incorrect, because if that were the case then both the court and Blaskić would prove their innocence by that logic. which is absurd. But it was about changing the court's policy, or changing its position according to command responsibility, which was contributed by these documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25176	Okay. My friend Ferenec, we have a Rules of Procedure, we have a deal, we don't throw away. Please make the next correction of the honourable representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25177	Mr. President, I'm correcting the same quote from my colleague Pusic when she said the transcripts were in The Hague that General Tihomir Blaskic would not have been sentenced to 45 years. So I'm just going to relate to what my colleague Bagaric said. It's simply not true, but it's one manipulation, with the Hague court's decision. Because, indeed, on the basis of which documents in the first trial, Tihomir Blaskovic was sentenced if his sentence was reduced on these grounds. So it's simply not true that it's manipulation for political purposes, with a verdict of the 1st and 2nd court ruling of the Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25178	And the esteemed representative, Maria Byte, is correcting an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25179	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Vice President Pusic, saying about the transcripts that came out of the President's Office, she claimed that this was the moment where the election campaign was held and that we were turning this institution into an arena. This is an incorrect allegation, as the pre-election campaign begins after the candidates who have won the right to run for office have been announced by the electoral commission and elections have not yet been called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25180	Club of Representatives Libra, respected representative Jozo Radoš. Well, I know, but then pick up on time. Yes, you can. On behalf of my colleague Radoš, Proposer, please choose the respected representative Pero Kovačević. Just please report in time, not in a flash of seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25181	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely, so the purpose of our motion is to determine only the truth, and the truth must be above all else. Above the current political situation, above all, it must always be true. I am pleased that Mrs Pusic supported the need to set up this commission. And this debate from the bench just once again indicates that the truth needs to be determined. We can't sit here with our hands crossed and Mr. Ice what's happening to us anymore. We need to determine an uncontested factual state, even those things that you said if that's the case, it needs to be determined, so we need to determine everything that's written in the media that there's no more speculation. So we must not put speculation under the carpet anymore than exactly, professionally, objectively establish the truth, and it can even, what you said, answer to current President Mesic in the campaign. He's got nothing to be afraid of. There's not a single presidential candidate to be afraid of. So let's determine the truth, only the truth, a commission formed by professional people who know how to work, who must have an obligation not to engage in political evaluations of their work in the commission, but professionally, metrically move from the meaning of the death of the late President Tudjman, and we ourselves know that there was a first commission, the former government of Prime Minister Matesha brought that it had to register all the citizens, there were Dr. Prostovic, he was General Kashpar and I think Dr. Miro Tudjman. They were supposed to decide, 1st, which is private and what's state. So they should have figured that out. So the commission has a way to go, that we need to see exactly how it's done, it's run in the manual books, in the manuals, we know what the subject is, we know what the class is, we know what the file is. From that we started with me and General Praljak and General Gotovina doing the rules on the elimination of registration and archive construction. I'm interested as an expert on whether the President's secretion of the registrar's and archival structure was made in the Office. So let's just go to the truth, let's not use this for politics. The truth is, the truth is needed for the sake of the Croatian people to prevent this and to prevent future leaks of classified information from happening, and the truth is also needed for our indictees in The Hague, because if these indications exist that there was a counterfeiting, it means there is a great chance that the issue of responsibility and General Gotovina and everything else will be resolved immediately. Let's say that transcript of the famous July 31st 95th, it's got the Hague prosecution pulling this part of the so-called. A criminal enterprise. Now, if it was a fake, if it didn't answer, or if it was this one, that one, let's figure it out. We must be responsible for our history, and we must be responsible for our future. So let's not speculate, determine the truth. The commission should work objectively, without politicizing, professionally, with experts and everything else and have nothing to fear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25182	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. For Club Libre. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25183	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I'm going to say that the issue of leaking classified information is one of the very serious and very difficult issues of this country, but a question that is not just about the President's Office and a matter that lasts for 12 years. Which, of course, I'll talk about it later. As for the proposal, however, that this is a national security threat, if the issue were to endanger the country's national security, according to some traditional national security models, then not only would this country, but all countries facing this problem would be really at risk. Lucky for me, it's not like that. The national security model of the 19th century or the first half of the 20th century was a model of a state fortress where human rights were not respected, in which they were secondary, in which there were no independent courts, in which there was no freedom of the media, in which there was no right to the availability of information. All these modern states have, and that is why it is very difficult for old countries who have been facing this problem for hundreds of years to create a good model of protection of secrecy, while at the same time all these rights that I am talking about, so the rights of the person, independence of the judiciary, the right to access information, the freedom of the media to protect all these rights. This is particularly difficult and traumatic to face new democratic states that must all be made in ten or fifteen years, and therefore, if the national security model were the one from the first half of the 20th century, all those countries would be at risk of national security. But fortunately, it's not like that. Contemporary relations between countries are significantly different, no more difficult enemy blocks, countries are directed to co-operation, and of course security, so national security is sought within the framework of collective security. That's why it's not such a problem for national security, but it doesn't mean that the issue of leaking information from all state institutions is not a big problem. However, the problem is another cartoon. The leak of information or the secret availability of information, what is called dealing with information, creating unfair merits, creating a positive media image of itself as a civil servant, as a politician, deserves promotion without real work behind it. Real credit. That's the real problem. It's a very big problem, it's a national security issue, but in a different, more modern way. Information sharing, the secret availability of information from all levels, official information, is a general phenomenon in all transition states, and this is particularly painful when it comes to Croatia because Croatia has special circumstances because of the war, because of its relations with The Hague Court, because of the construction of a democratic society, etc. But the problem in Croatia, as I said, has been there for 12 years, since the beginning of this country and should be said when it comes to The Hague, and this is, of course, in the context of The Hague, it should be said that all of this happened or mostly and what happened was relevant before 2000. In 99, the Hague court sent an official request to the Croatian government with specific provisions concerning the conduct of General Gotovina as commander in the Storm. In 99, I repeat, the Hague court already has specific documents, 15 of them required by the Croatian government, concerning General Gotovina's actions in the Storm as one of the commanders. So these documents were previously sent to The Hague and The Hague had already sent a request that, according to specific manual numbers, the Croatian Government, or its office, deliver them to the court. And so this is a problem that is much wider than what this is about. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Rights, which is how we see it every day. Every day from our institutions, not only these traditional ministries in charge of national security, but other ministries that are more and more important for the state's operation, the official secret, business secrets are just as important as they used to be military or state secret, secret information is being delivered daily. Our media is publishing them, and, of course, behind is the budget to work. Those who provide this information, they have a privileged place in those same media, they have merits, they have political promotion, they have popularity, they have a good place with their boss in the ministry or anywhere else, and that there is no real work behind it, but behind that is this dirty work. That's what you can say, and it's a really big problem for this country, but I'm afraid that the HSP counsel club is accessing him in part. And that's because of our law on the protection of the secrecy of information. The Republic of Croatia has a very primitive law on the protection of the confidentiality of information by which everything, but only all state secrets and no clear procedures are prescribed as to how this state and official and military secret is kept. Therefore, under such circumstances, in fact, when everything is a state and military and official secret, nothing is a state, military and official secret, and that law for a full of 8 years is a fundamental law for dealing with secret documents at all levels of the state, which is absolutely unacceptable, and as long as it is so, of course, it will not go forward without saying, of course, that this law does not help raise some kind of security culture. And finally, the question of the investigative commission. Unfortunately, over the past ten years, the work of the Croatian Parliament has proved that no investigative committee has solved anything. In particular, this investigative committee will not be able to do so for two reasons. This investigative committee and the Council of the Republic of Croatia have no jurisdiction to examine the conduct of the President of the Republic. The only instrument standing in the Assembly is the question of the trust of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is strictly prescribed by our Constitution and if it is wanted and if it is considered to be such a great crime then it should be done, but it is known what the procedures are. And the second question, of course, is that this commission's work will certainly become the focus of the pre-election presidential campaign with the ambitions of one part of the participants to turn it into a campaign against the current president of the Republic of Croatia. It will certainly be so, it will prove itself, I'm afraid already today, it will prove to be in the commission's work and therefore I don't think this actually makes much sense. It's a good idea on the ground but it's partial, it only covers one institution in this country, and it should cover everything. It covers only one period since the death of the Republic of Dr. Tudjman until today and not the period since the establishment of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, since 1992 and these are the reasons why we believe that this commission will not be, will not bring results. It will be a waste of energy, it will be unnecessary political conflicts in the Croatian Parliament. Croatia is a democratic country. The issue of the transcription of the President of the Republic of Croatia, both before 99th and after, will be the topic of the presidential campaign. This cannot and should not be prevented but in the way this enables the campaign. When all candidates are facing each other who will be able to charge and defend themselves. Turning a parliamentary speaker and an important parliamentary body into an institution that has not proved itself is, in fact, the introduction of the Croatian Parliament into a process in which the Croatian Parliament should not officially participate and these are the reasons why, of course, these reasons that I spoke about earlier, why Club LIBRE will not support this initiative and will not participate in the work of this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25184	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25185	Mr. President, dear colleague Rados said that the general phenomenon in all transition states is the leak of information or transcripts from the Office of the President of the State, in fact, alluding to the fact that it is a common practice in all transition countries and that it is not an impact on the issue of national security. It's an incorrect quote. In this way, the leak of the transcripts is not a general phenomenon in all transition states, and it is precisely because, in a certain sense, this and the specificity of our political relations are based on the position of the promoters and proposes the formation of this investigative commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25186	Second correction, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25187	I thank Mr. President, it is incorrect to say that Mr. Rados, that the establishment of an investigative committee of campaigns against the current President of the Republic is only because the establishment of this commission should lead to the truth. That truth can either be against or in favour of, therefore, those who have dealt with transcripts and therefore cannot prejudge the conclusion of a commission that has not even been established and I believe that this allegation is incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25188	For the club HSP, respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25189	Dear President Shakespeare, colleagues and colleagues. My colleague Vesna Pusić is disoriented both in time and in space. She mentions that there was a transcript in 1992, talking about the 90th year and trying to impose the thesis that this is about politicisation and pre-election campaign, knowingly or unconsciously accusing the current president of more than all of us together. The establishment of this election commission is the biggest event for this Croatian Parliament. Perhaps after the Vukovar Commission of Investigations, in the Vukovar Investigation Commission, after the fall of Vukovar, there were as many as I recall, three lawyers and five police officers. At that time, I was against such a concept of the investigative commission, because lawyers, lawyers and cops couldn't understand either the drama or the tragedy or the heroism of Vukovar. And in that sense, this investigative commission will be a failure if you approach it that way. I'm going to go through this problem from a slightly different perspective. My friend, Croatian writer, gastronomic expert, warrior, poet and philosopher Veljko Barbieri, told me a moving story about his grandfather some 15 years ago. Namely, his grandfather, who was a very respected pharmacist in Makarska, a great seducer, a globtrotter and an adventurer, had a box that he had always locked up, his whole life, and the children in the house were constantly wondering what kind of secrets he was hiding in that box. And when Grandpa died they were infinitely unhappy, but they found comfort in the fact that they got the key to that chest. When they opened the box, they were completely shocked. There were a lot of love letters in the book, a few dried roses, a few blue, black, red, brown hair, a few travel notes. For old or ancient Barbiery, the fortune of life was in that box. When he died, everyone forgot. I knew Dr. Francis Tudjman. He was an extremely curious man. With transcripts, with about 4 thousand transcripts, with 8 thousand different documents he collected in 9 years and this mass of material testifys that this man worked on average for 12 hours for 9 years. I'd like to know what I'm going to find next year in the President's office. That's how many buildings I'm sure you don't. And when it comes to transcripts, there's always one important element missing, and that's what the English call "body language". If I were to say that there is a colleague, Vesna Pusic, what you said is very wise, even though it would be read in a transcript of people would be terribly resentful to me, and you know that there was one Havelovska or Kunderovska irony in that. Now we're going back to being things. In one of the most beautiful, most often quoted speeches in human history except for Jesus ’ speech on the Holy Mountain, it is Pericle's speech over the grave of the fallen Athenians in the Persian War, in the Peleponnese War. It is very important that the note bene should be given here as a textbook by all Assembly speakers when entering this House because its structure is infinitely interesting. The first and most part of his speech is dedicated to the glory of Athens. In front of him are mothers, brothers, children of fallen heroes, and he speaks, but he speaks of the glory and greatness of Athens, he speaks of the constitutionality of the order, of the equality of the citizens before the law, of the openness of the city, of how there is no xenophobia in that city, of the kingdom of democracy, of the size of poetry, of the perfection of the theatre, and afterwards he speaks only after about half of his speech to his relatives and says about a sentence like this: "It was honorable to die for such Athens." Now imagine Croatian warriors who today should face themselves and believe that it was honorable to fight for Croatia. I knew them in the '90s. With Tanja Torbarin, I visited the barracks for the first time where it formed into an illegal Croatian army. We found a boy she was a big star for, he was in a cat called "mothers on decks" in Dalmatia, and there was Mickey Mouse, who whistled at the pressure of his hand, and he wanted to show it to us. I never knew later, and I managed to find out if he was alive or dead. So this isn't about any banal case. It's just that he's the current president, because there's no secret. When it comes to who discovered the transcripts, it is known that Stipe Mesic did it. Now the question is whether he did it from the motives Veliko Barbieri had. If those motives were boyish to look into the chest, that's one thing, I don't believe it. Because a great fan of these opportunities is Ivan Zvonimir Čičak, like this, about the stepsmen in "The Morning List". Since the first day of entry into Pantovčak, it has begun dealing with transcripts by only the Mesica known criteria. These transcripts appeared in public mostly when political opponents were to be discredited, both Mesic and those, his political followers. When it comes to responsibility, whoever works in this investigative committee should be treated according to the concept and responsibilities voted by German philosopher Carl Jaspers after the Holocaust and genocide developed and which was more or less maintained in philosophy and responsibility today. He distinguishes four types of responsibility. The first is criminal or criminal responsibility, it's always personal and individual. So the second level is political responsibility. When it comes to political or state responsibility, I would like to remind you of a voiced sentence from a retired general whom Cosic probably met, his name was Jozef almost as Rados, Gareth. He came here and said one important thing, told the Croats they lack a theory of statehood and awareness of statehood. So the awareness of statehood is something that is extremely important for the survival of this people. The third level of responsibility after political responsibility is moral and the fourth is metaphysical responsibility. In this case, it is a responsibility to those who are no longer present and whose names are very often known only to God. The Croatian people today, in order to have the right to hope for the future, must find the complications of what the great American historian Steel Comandre calls a useful past. All nations are no better than Croats, all wars are ugly and dirty. You in wars must discover part of the usefulness so that they may be an inspiration for people who will defend their country tomorrow. I've been exploring patriotism in Croatia and I've always been fascinated by the circumstances of these people, and in Croatia there are strangers who have killed themselves after the war. There are 1800 of them, they should be reported to the Parliament or not to insult their names, but simply to list names and to have an impression. They are simply freaked out because they are touched by their intimacy and returning to the issue of election campaign I would like this election commission to possibly postpone its action by maybe a month, I will have the opportunity to face the current President Stipe Mesic in other places and in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25190	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25191	Twice, the Honorable representative of Letica does the same lapus and calls this commission an electoral, electoral commission, although it should be investigated. But from that twice-repeated lapsus, it's actually the subconscious truth about the reasons why this commission is founded. The reasons are like in his two-timed laps...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25192	A fellow Stazic Lapsus correction...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25193	... Mr. Letica said "election" not "investigation."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25194	A colleague revealing your speaker's subconscious motives is not a correction to an incorrect quote. A colleague revealing your speaker's subconscious motives is not a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25196	No, I fixed the lapus. This commission is not called election...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25197	We don't have a law enforcement institute. We have false allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25198	No, the rectification of the quote. Correction of an incorrect allegation that this commission is called... [[/The noise in the hall, the speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25199	Okay. Dear Representative Željko Kurtov, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25200	Mr. President, my colleague Letica said that in 2000, they started selling the transcript, which is not true. As I recall, the first sale of the transcripts was to Mr. Marinko Christmas when an agreement was reached between the late President Tudjman and Jovan Raskovic and the release of that agreement as I recall, the deal failed. As far as I'm concerned, there's even a suspicion that the war might not have been in the Republic of Croatia if it hadn't been for the release of that tansscript.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25201	Honorable representative Antun Vujic on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go. Please, peace. Please don't throw away! It's not right to throw. We agreed we wouldn't throw it away.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25202	Mr. President, there's one thing I like and one thing I don't like. I am not pleased that behind Mr Letica's inspired lecture, I am taking the floor, but I would still warn when it comes to such large four principles of responsibility that it should not fall to the first and already know before the investigative commission formed, who gave transcripts as Mr Letica has already said directly about Mr Mesic. What I'm glad to do is, I'm glad to speak on behalf of the SDP club, so a party that neither as a party nor any relevant individual within the SDP has anything to do with any transcripts in terms of any abuses, leaks, etc. And I'm going to set two principles. Whether we want to preserve this country from this kind of abuse or not. If we want to preserve her, then we must primarily do so through those institutions we have to protect her. And if we don't want to keep it, then we can call on such practices that actually interfere with the work of these institutions. I want to say very clearly, that the SDP not only condemns but with a quite dose of contempt is well said, it is now taking part in the debate on this subject. But I also want to say that the formation of a commission, and the unrealization of all those decisions that the former government had made and that went towards solving this problem, which is that the whole of the building is entrusted to those who are the only ones who can evaluate it, that it's not going that way. The Commission's method contradicts its objective, because it shifts back to political diction what should be addressed within the framework of the institution's professional work, which is permanently impossible for them to carry out their duties in this respect and to really help this country. I have to say that even the countries, therefore our relatively neighbouring countries, are one directly adjacent, one less adjacent but which, in some ways, have had some similar problems, have solved this problem. In Macedonia and Slovenia, after the president's departure, all his archives are going to state archives immediately and there is no possibility of any abuse with it. We haven't done it yet. We did not do this but now it is a question of what should come eventually to the State Archives after they have done some previous actions that reduce the possibility that these institutions can also establish authenticity, store and keep such documents from being misused. The first division of that archive was on December 16th 99th. It was then found that the work of the President of the Republic remains in the Bureau's office, one part going to the successors of Mr Franjo Tudjman, the late President and the third going to the party, so HDZ. Even then, the archival profession had nothing to say about it. Given that without those independent intermediaries who in such an essential state matter, because please, let me just say that the state may consist of the military, the police, but it's almost in the third place State Archives. They are independent, they are independent of keeping the State Archives from the state itself, especially from those subjective elements that appear on behalf of the state. So it wasn't even done then. It is already the first step in that it is very difficult to talk about authenticity, and there I agree with some colleagues who spoke here before me, although they represented different attitudes than this, which is that the value of authenticity is quite zero, i.e. everyone can counterfeit it, everyone can present today in one way or another, and that is one vast multitude of opportunities that should be dealt with by a possible commission, which therefore does not deal with the main things and which is not equipped or can deal with actual fact-finding because it requires scientific methods. In the processing of archives... A scientific, critical analysis, a comparison is being carried out, a whole series of other things are needed here to, I think, act metrically and protect this country from abuse. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, on January 1, 2001, the government made such decisions that the building is located in the Croatian State Archives, although it is now clearly half-way or one that we do not know in which volume it is complete. And also, that these documents can be used in accordance with the law on archival construction and archives, and that the possible use of these documents, which has been continued through all governments so far, can only be given to the Government with a special decision in the event of its specific obligations. This last part was not disputed or may be disputed because it stems from our constitutional obligations. It is regrettable, however, that until today it is not realised, and it is unfortunate that today we are going in the wrong direction again, in the direction of committees which cannot therefore be explored and have no authority, and they have no expertise to do so, and not to solve this thing once and for all, with an energetic pawnage of this Parliament, that the whole of this building is given immediately to the Croatian State Archives. It's a pity that in the name of the Homeland War we're talking here, and we're not using the main fluids of the Homeland War. The liquid of the Homeland War is this Croatian state that has its own state institutions. If there are abuses, and therefore allegedly there are, they are abuses that are punishable under the law. There's a law on archives, there's a law on official secrecy, and there's a state's attorney's office that deals with it, not a commission. On the other hand, there are institutions that can store these documents, which are equipped to do so, which is the Croatian State Archives, which are not placed in that position. So such a debate, such a body that contradicts the very meaning of what makes it nothing but an integral part of what these documents have become, one propaganda war, turning these documents into a single current political commodity. And if it's something that's causing our disgust, which is that it's already been committed or repeated once, that the abuse of these documents, the transcripts, etc., now we should do it one more time so that we can re-exploit the whole, so to speak, composition of dirty laundry to the Parliament, what are we going to do? Protection of secrecy? No, but once again the confusion of deepening the gaps of unnecessary, once again battles in history, again battles backwards, rather than resolving a state issue in an adequate way. In this regard, the SDP cannot support such a single commission nor can it participate in its work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25203	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25204	Mr. President, my colleague Vujic said at the beginning of his speech that it was not good to speak in advance, that the transcripts were shared by Stipe Mesic. I'll do it on two examples to correct you. First, Mr Stipe Mesic when he became President of the Republic and as soon as he entered the Presidential Court he introduced foreign TV houses that were unprecedented in the history of civilization and allowed them to record everything they wanted and take everything they wanted. Another example when, in March 1998, the citizen Mesic was then, and today the president of the citizens in The Hague testified in the case of Blaskic, he made it very clear how and how he wants to demonise his predecessor and how and how he will be grateful to his bosses and sponsors. Otherwise, these transcripts and his testimony from The Hague brought our voiced lawyer, Anto Nobilo, and they were already in circulation in Croatia for 72 hours after the citizen Mesic then testified in the Blaskic case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25205	Thank you. And another correction, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25206	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Vujic, said at the beginning of his presentation that he was happy that the SDP had no connection or responsibility in relation to the transcripts. Namely, I will remind my colleague Vujic that it is precisely at a time when the most...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25207	You will remind him of the correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25208	Yeah, yeah, well, I'm correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25209	You have to say yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25210	For the past 4 years, the SDP has been the government of Croatia and, of course, its responsibility lies that it did not accept the Commission's investigation two years ago and 2002 respectively, the establishment of an investigative commission to determine why and how transcripts go public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25211	The HSS Club is a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25212	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. One very serious topic, one very serious matter, of course, is in a somewhat broader context than in the proposal itself, it is called, unquestionably located in the shadow of politics above all from the fact that the presidential elections are ahead of us. And this one shadow in one negative way affects the level of this debate and this proposal in a negative context. Therefore, it is very welcome that Mr Letica's proposal or position is very welcome that such a serious regulation and the reason why the Croatian Parliament must take responsibility for the situation earlier today, but above all that tomorrow and its proposal is worth precisely that the context of the presidential election would not lead to and would not overcome the importance of this material, in order not to further influence the reasons why the proposal of the decision is inauguration, in order not to confirm those reasons which have led to this situation even worse, and this can be created in the context of very high political charges that I will certainly expand and deepen during the presidential campaign, because it will clearly use everything in line with the electoral rules and those moves and ways of communication that are available to each of the candidates. Therefore, precisely because of all the presidential candidates, precisely for matter, I think Mr Letica's finding is correct, that time should be promoted by this commission to create conditions and to realise what is to be achieved in this Decision on the establishment of the Research Commission but to create a positive political climate in the presidential elections as appropriate for a democratic and modern country. I will now return to matter itself, of course all that is prescribed by law and which is not implemented is a violation of the law. The tasks of each Parliament, the tasks of each executive authority, are to remove the reasons that lead to the non-legislative implementation or misimplementation. The fundamental laws governing this matter, which is the treatment of all kinds of data, documents, transcripts bearing a national, military or official secret, is governed by the 99th year Data Protection Act. There are also two regulations on information security of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces and the Defence Data Protection Regulations. These documents should have made up one closed whole to regulate how to deal with protected data with protected decisions. Unfortunately, the law on the protection of the confidentiality of data has never in practice come to implementation, and that's what's not being said here, and why hasn't it come? I think in why he didn't come, we'll get to why we have this condition today. In fact, Article 29 of that same law should form a body to participate in the implementation of that law, which is referred to as the Security Verification Council. That council is actually the epicenter of everything that's going on. Why? This Council was to be composed of representatives of the Croatian Parliament in part of independent experts, and the third part or third part was to be composed of public media persidents in view of the way the world functions. Any material which any material, any electronic media, wishes to publish and on which it is located or has come in a manner that says this Law cannot be published without legal sanctions unless it is given to this Council or approved by the Council, depending on what it wishes to publish. That is why the Council was to be chaired by a representative of the public media so that this council would not become an Inquisition. Unfortunately, as usually happens with us, this has not happened, and then we witness different ways of dealing with protected documents, the same ones from the president's office as those from the Ministry's office and all those documents that bear the mark, state, military or official secret. So today we have various archives from those in state administrations, to those in private houses, with various goals of these archiving, some exist to protect themselves, some to influence politically, some stand for memories, they are the most banignant, but in any case we have another legal problem, and that is what is punishable under the Penal Code in these proceedings. We have two types of punishment that the Penal Code knows and can be sanctioned. The first is if you give information with such secrecy to a third party, it is a criminal offence, if you publish it the same you have committed a criminal offence, but if you have it neatly in your home and keep it not a criminal offence. Unfortunately, it is. Is the task of this proposal, which is the club of the HSP and it is completely legitimate as regards the club of the HSS, legitimate because it was done the way this House did. Therefore, he is legitimate. We at the HSS Club hold that it is necessary, with what I have already said, and this is a kind of delay in the activation of this Research Commission, that it is necessary to extend the subject of interest in accordance with the law, which means other words that if we want to achieve a final goal, which is that we know exactly how to deal with protected documents, that we know exactly what to do in the presidential office when the mandate of the President of the Republic ceases, where these documents end, who is in charge of archiving them but how to prevent daily leaks of information from the security sector and their sectors that are happening, and all those who want to watch, clearly I mean under that and under the State's attorneyship can daily list any press, weeks even under the existing law, and it is not right and it would not be fair for all to blame the law, the law has its own implementation deficiencies, but it can still be handled. And why this has never been settled in Croatia in accordance with the legislation until today, it is one question that absolutely needs to be proposed and should be contained in this proposal of the HSP Club. We hold that the subject matter of interest of this Commission of Investigation should be expanded, in a way that the other authorities of the state administration are also a security sector which is absolutely irrelevant, but in any case, coordinating its influence is crucial to those documents found in the Office of the President and which were from there and coming out. But his knowledge is unquestionable to establish how Pero tells true truths. Therefore, the subject of the interest of this Research Commission should, of course, be extended and those circumstances should be created in which the measure of matters will be discussed, avoiding any political assessment, because political assessments will return the matter to where it has been, and where it is today it does not belong to the rule of law, it will always cause real harm to every country, and regardless of what fellow Rados said that the time of such resuscitation of the threat from this kind of illegal action has passed, it has never passed, every serious state that holds itself will always rest on the right, on respecting the law and on the protection of all that and all those documents that she has ordered to protect them, and has determined to protect them, because it knows that they are important for the functioning of a country. Therefore, the level of threat from this manner of behavior is difficult to grade and evaluate. But in any case, it's very big and definitely bad and it gives politics and gives all of us who speak to the public one special responsibility and all of this is happening to us, and we are at the heart of that attention. And for this reason, the expansion of the action of this Research Commission, with a certain time shift that a political hot situation would not rely on what we want to do well and not to just eat and divide the minimum common consensus that we can achieve, I think the proposal to postpone application is to postpone a certain short period of application of the Research Commission and start work, but to expand the delirquent and to make very concrete measures practically the conditions for this matter to come into line with the interests of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25213	Thank you very much. I'm reporting that at 10.43, it's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25214	Mr. President, counterpart Ante Markov, both at the beginning and finally said, and I will quote what he said at the beginning "I consider the commission to move so as not to create confusion in the presidential campaign". A colleague of Mark's not only that it's incorrect, it's completely infancy. Every election is a political competition, where politicians are placed on the political market. Politicians are public figures, they're all to be known about. See how it happens in America and Western Europe. And I'm going to prove this to you on an example. Today, all media and last night's TV stations are broadcasting a statement from our colleague Zeljke Antunovic that HDZ is buying the votes of independent representatives due to the vote on the Zuzul case. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25215	My colleague Lončar, please don't use words infantile for representatives first. That's offensive, and don't use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25216	Mr. President, since you took some of my time just to finish one sentence, believe me, I know how to speak, and there are speech parabolas in the speech room. So I ask you nicely in accordance with our Rules of Procedure let me finish this sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25217	Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25218	I fixed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25219	Yeah, all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25220	I am, but then I'm still going to prove it, but you can see since my time's up, let me finish. Because I'm saying that politicians are on the political market, it's a political competition, then according to that, I wanted to make a statement, so is there something wrong?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25221	You can make a statement when it's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25222	I know, but President, this isn't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25223	Let's limit ourselves to corrections. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative, Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25224	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me, as the promoter, a few words, and in terms of what is said here from support, to giving negative assessments of this initiative, I would also say to some qualifications that I am obliged to respond to. I am very sorry that on behalf of the Club Mr Vujic said almost with disgust he speaks for this speaker, giving such a qualification, an assessment of this initiative as something extremely negative, something that should not happen from possible mental hygiene at all in the Croatian Assembly. Because the assessments he has presented and the qualifications of this initiative are absolutely unacceptable for us from the Croatian Party rights that we are initiators of this initiative on the establishment of an investigative commission in dealing with transcripts from the Office of Presidents. I would first of all like to vigorously reject any intention of our party when we went with this initiative, we collected before our signatures, then asked for other signatures, that motivation was focused on presidential elections, and I will explain why. We are from what is visible, as the last Mr. Markov said, as well as from fellow Radoš, it is evident that the competent state institutions did not act according to this matter and structure in accordance with the laws. A colleague, Vujic, was a competent minister who had to fulfill the legislative regulatory decision to take over an archive that was in the President of the Republic's Office. That's what the current minister had to do. Therefore, the departments were not doing their job. He mentioned that a colleague of Markov had not done his job by the State's Attorney's Office or the police. So it's definitely the matter and the structure to react to. Why did we react in this time that coincided with the presidential election? Absolutely not because of the choice. I would like to remind you that, two, two and a half months ago, we may have been incomplete, that I came to the fact that a car in The Hague tribunal is a transcript of the so-called Transscript. The Brijuni transcript gave it to the public, and what motivated us then to try to do something about transcripts, compared to those of our Hague arresters who are in The Hague. So, ours, I don't know about other motivations. Our motivation, not motivated by presidential elections, is that when fellow Letica had been well delayed by the formation of the commission until the presidential elections, he can say it from the candidate's perspective, because he doesn't really need it. From the perspective of helping people in The Hague, however, time is no more. That was supposed to be done yesterday. Why am I stressing this now and what basically motivated us? So, no presidential election. It's basically the foundation that we want to actually achieve by forming a commission if it forms because I see that a good part of the opposition doesn't want. I don't know, it's the first time that we don't want to make a commission about this. Most of the time, the initiative of every committee has nothing to hide, fear if it has no responsibility whatsoever. In the proposal for our round of questions to be done, it is how the illegal possession of the transcripts and what is whether the key transcripts of the relevant tone records are and to examine the possibility of making counterfeits and whether the transcripts are legally delivered to the Prosecutor's Office in The Hague. I don't think of any man or official nor the President of the Republic thinking he's responsible. I just want to say that I have a transcript of July 31st 1995, that's so-called. It's a brilliance transcript. What does a transcript really mean? The transcript could be a faithful copy of the tone record of a July 31st meeting in Brijuni. The example submitted to the International Criminal Court is not a faithful copy, and it is mainly because only in the transcript have some participants who have been left out and have been publicly confirmed that they participated in a meeting with the President of the Republic of Croatia in Brijuni in 31.7.05. I do not know from Miljavac, Glasnović, Rajčić, Budimir, etc. Therefore, all the participants of the meetings that could be contacted and living as Domazet, Professor Tudjman, General Zagorac, Crnjac, deny the course and content of the talks as stated. Therefore, why now on November 23rd this General Assembly of the Security Council finally adopts a final resolution on The Hague in which this is the last train at all. So, not as important as who but whether the transcripts are brilliantly falsified. It's the last train when something can be done yet. Perhaps we naively believe that by determining that these records are forged, there may be still a possibility that before addressing the Hague court, the Security Council may avoid General Gotovina entering the resolution together and Karadzic and Mladic. These are key issues and that is why we must do everything in our power when the state institutions have not already done so, when the State's Attorney's Office does not do so, then we must at least try to do something to determine whether the copy of the 31.7 was true or falsified, whether it was forged with the intention of falsely accusing individuals before the International Criminal Court, who forged the document and as such tampered with the Hague court and who supplied the fay falsified document to The Hague court. That is, therefore, the key question of direct support. So the primary question is whether he's falsified or not. If he is a falsifier because the basis of this transcript of this Brijuni is based on charges against three Croatian generals, which accuses the Croatian Army, the Croatian State, President Tudjman, not to list everything that happens in these Hague indictments. Why is it important to determine the authenticity of the transcript? Because that transcript of July 31st is the basis of the charge of so-called. The criminal enterprise of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of ethnic Serb persecution with the operation "Storm" of freed areas, yet again a fundamental indictment for those generals. If it were to prove that the indictment was based on a falsified document, we are convinced that the Hague court or we hope maybe we hope but that's what we say is a legal battle. We have the possibility of a political and legal battle to prove that it is a falsification based on whom General Gotovina, Markac and Cermak have been accused and one of the main roles should be the commission that even hastensibly. This can be determined within 10 days, to examine people who were present and to see if this brilliance meeting ran in the way in which this transcript I have in my hand, a mirror which was primarily falsified to be established. So let's do our best to do our part. Maybe it won't be much, but if we don't do everything we can, then there's nothing we can do about it. And who will be President of the Republic will show the Croatian electoral, Croatian people, and surely this debate will not be crucial in deciding on it. It is important to us that, before the start of a formal campaign of presidential elections that may begin in early December, we bring or determine the truth about these transcripts and that we can try to help in such a way before 23.11. to determine exactly what was happening, so that the document may help to some extent either the President of the Court of Justice Meron or who will already file a report saying that it is questionable or suspicious of what was being said about General Gotovina in The Hague. And those who say it's impossible to prove the truth but only before the Hague court are not true because Gotovina's indictment has already been changed once. She's changed and it's radically changed. Therefore, there is no reason to believe that this transcript has been falsified, no reason not to make a new change or even withdraw. Let's try. It doesn't cost us anything to try and do it and it's not against the co-operation with The Hague Court or in the fight against political morality in Croatia, exactly the opposite. In such a way, we make that contribution that we as a state body are legally obliged to do, the right to do something, not to tie it to the presidential campaign. I really don't want to be rude. I don't want to see how the presidential election goes. I don't mind because of my presidential candidate but it's very important that we do something by 23.12 to at least meet some of our minimums I would like to calm our conscience that this Parliament has done everything it can to help General Gotovina, Markac and Cermak. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25225	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25226	Mr. President, I'd like to correct my colleague if not only forgeries, but also by choosing documents, some people can be blamed. General Gotovina and General Blaskic have assurances and claims that, in some way, by selecting documents given to The Hague, it has affected their guilt or justice. So it's not just fake and forgeries that matter, it's about choosing documents that were sent to The Hague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25227	Thank you very much. But that's one addition to the proposal. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25228	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament! Well, the first thing I'm saying is that this legal initiative, this idea is good. However, a time when this is proposed politically compromises the idea. We all agree that confidential, secret, I don't know, military, official, etc. the documents of a girl from certain bodies of state authorities such as the flood river and the truth is also so far it has not happened that anyone in the Republic of Croatia was responsible for this and to assume that it will remain that way. They deal with these documents, they're used to disabling each other, to degrade each other, to compromise each other. One word to hurt the other. But it's not just people who get hurt. Sometimes the earth suffers as a whole, and most often the truth suffers. Well, it's clear. It wasn't just that motive that always happened on Wednesdays. These materials were often distributed there in the early 1990s to keep it on the market. So, once before 2000, these materials were sold. It was known exactly how much a transcript from the president's office, how much a document from the Department of Defense costs, how much some document from the interior ministry cost. And they're all dealing this power to pop up the former one also goes with the service of certain material to the Croatian public, for example. There's that "cash" operation about catching Gotovina with the help of the English intelligence community. It is not a problem for the services to cooperate, the problem is if they are allowed to go to work and work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to perform the forces of the Republic of Croatia. Just as indisputable that Gotovina must defend himself in The Hague. That former government was also insinuating the earlier one and so indefinitely. Clearly, some material should be stored for a certain number of years, e.g. 35 or 40. However, I repeat, in Croatia so far, everything could have happened. As far as these famous transcripts from the president's office are concerned, the question now is whether they bear any sign of official military secrecy, however, it is not even disputed. It is not disputed, and I think we all know that these documents can, on the other hand, very faithfully reconstruct Tudjman's euro. And now we need to ask ourselves if it might be good for some of these documents to appear in public. We have to wonder if these dominus dealers and close associates are the late President Tudjman. We have to ask ourselves what some private collections of these former presidents contain. Against whom? And we're just all aware of that. Are some to make for example. Buying the favor of The Hague were prepared as we had just heard of sending documents against certain persons? It was everything. But in my court, it is the least necessary for the publication of some documents at this time to be called by the President of the Republic of Stip Mesic. What, on the other hand, is almost incredible that there is no way in hell to leak secret contracts to the public. about Croatian telecom or privatising some other large, I don't know about monopoly companies in the Republic of Croatia. And what's he saying? That when that big interest is Wednesday and many of it has an interest, then it's a secret and what should be the most normal public matter. But now to return to this suspicion of President Mesic. If he was imputed to him, he helped the nation know the character of the government that a good part of the citizens voted for in that last decade, I think he did a lot of things especially if it taught us not to repeat some mistakes. But now why is this commission proposed? Apparently, as Mr. Djapic used to say earlier, because of the transcripts from Mr. Franjo Tudjman's meeting with the military peak in the eyes of the action of Storm, and all of us on the other hand think that the background of this investigative commission is how at this point to impress President Mesic. First, it's supposed to be on that transcript of 31. Seven. In 95, Carla Del Ponte founded her indictment against Gotovina, against Markac, Cermak, etc. First, let's not impute Mesic, he finally put himself in the defense of Markac, Cermak, Ademia, he made a mistake in my court against General Gotovina but certainly wanted the best for General Gotovina and the country as a whole. To be cynical today, these transcripts can no longer be impressed by Milosevic. It's true these transcripts can hurt someone, just why are we going back so much in history even though it really should be asked why this is happening to this country all the time? Doesn't this country have any other life topics to talk about as well? However, I agree, if someone is doing harm by publishing such documents it is the first class problem of that man, but I agree with the nations as a whole. Here, we have recently heard that POA has invited Miss Helena Puljiz to some informative conversation, which should be read on one side towards her, according to media independence but on the other hand as a direct pressure on President Mesic. Now, if someone in this country is dealing with it, then the problem is as serious as it is serious and the publication of certain documents. If the state's attorney goes, it doesn't matter, the former, present or any government by its own judgment, which he does, and that's a huge problem. If every police, I don't know, the material can get to Pethrach and his society before it can get to the investigator. And that's the problem. If Croatia does not have a commission for conflict of interest and that is the problem. So there's no telling who in this country what this conflict of interest is. If 6 are conducting an investigation on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and this is a problem, as is the problem if the documents of a girl without any coincidence and, unfortunately, this Assembly may also be involved. It is certain that all of us should be asked what this means for the country, what does it mean for confidence in the institution, who can even trust in such a Republic of Croatia or in such a government? So I'm against digging into the past, and I'm against having someone disembowel the president at the time of his campaign, and that's when it's supposed to be, and that's what the Pugliz case is going directly to President Mesic. What Croatia needs is a sure seriousness, how to turn to life's problems, etc. Clearly, you need to set the system in a way that information must be available to everyone but what is classified material must also be hidden from any abuse. And that should be it. But we're a country, and that's what Mr. Letica said that has a 14-year-old statehood. He quoted a general who said that in the Republic of Croatia she had not yet regained that awareness of statehood. And it's clear and there's so much to change, but we can't change anything by planting. Finally, the season of dealing with these documents was opened by another presidential candidate there, as we heard in '92. We remember that transcript with Raskovic. And then we were on our way. In the beginning, these documents and had some price, transcripts from the presidents of the 100 Marks Office, from the Government of 700 Marks, from the Ministry of Defence 500 Marks, from the HDZ 100 Marks, eventually the inflation of these documents brought down the price of all these transcripts to zero so that today, even Milosevic cannot call on those transcripts anymore. So we should really get serious, we should stop getting set up, whenever conflict of interest is Wednesday, whenever transcripts are, whether we're not ready to support on the other side what's good just because someone who's not our political thinker suggests it. However, Croatian democracy is indeed young, so it is no wonder that some child’s disease cannot prevail overnight. And once again, I'm going to paraphrase Mr. Letic when he mentioned that general, he says you miss him, that's his quote, his awareness of statehood. Mr. Cosic is really right. No one needs to be framed. You don't have to plant Tudjman, you don't have to plant Gotovina, Chesic, Caine, or anyone else. Clearly, the storm was legitimate, and it was clear that the space was supposed to be occupied to return. What happened after the storm should also be condemned. But hardly anyone can say that Storm was a criminal enterprise. It would be hypocritical, it doesn't stand, it doesn't suit the truth. Finally, it is not a dispute that soldiers spoke at the Brijuni that year 1995. It is a dispute that politicians often agreed on a relationship between Zagreb and Belgrade. It's the easiest burden to transfer to soldiers. It's cowardice to me, and I've been talking about it for 10 years. And to condemn unnecessary palaces, clearly I condemn as probably all normal people in the Republic of Croatia do. I also condemn the easy sacrifice of people like one Blaskic who, as Mrs Pusic said, did not exculpate, released the blame, but again one such document that he was hiding, and was in the president's office eventually helped him. And again, principle. We cannot show one person one way, according to another person, and especially let us not plant one another. The commission in my court can't determine anything after all. Why? Because as Mr. Radosh used to say, you can't question the President of the Republic. And I'm gonna end up with a good idea, but unfortunately it's been put up with at a bad time, and then one idea just like that, under the allegations of storm, compromises it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25229	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25230	Mr. President, a colleague of Cain said, I quote, "They have dealt and dealt with all of these documents." So a few sentences afterwards said, "It is at least the President of the Republic of Stipe Mesic's fault." That is completely incorrect. We know fellow Caine that as soon as the president came to the office, he gave his closest associates to handing over these documents. We have one weekly who published 90% of these transcripts compared to all these other Croatian media. I know you didn't deal those transcripts and documents, but neither did I. But the President of the Republic is unequivocal. Then you said that the aim of this commission is to quote, "How to pop President Mesic." So please, in the election campaign, President Mesic is as much a candidate as the other 10, 15, 20 or 30. So did you look at how it's done in America? I'm curious, I'm going back to what we're on the political market so let's see what he offers the political market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25231	Thank you. The second correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25232	At the opening part of his presentation, counterpart Cain said it was a legislative initiative. This is not about any legislative initiative but about a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. And secondly, he said that both this government and this government are dealing with transcripts and these documents. That's not true. This government does not deal with any transcripts or documents, especially in the context of the proposed decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25233	Third correction, respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25234	Dear Mr. President, Agent Cain said in his statement: "They were dealing in the Ministry of Defence, in the Presidential Office, everyone was simply dealing." We know a lot of people, a lot of institutions, civil servants, and I personally belong to everything. I did not deal because this is about the sacral matters of the Croatian state of national interest. It's hard for me to think that anyone has dared to deal because it's the state. That shop is treason, and those who are eventually or might be dealing are traitors to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25235	Next respected deputy president Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25236	I am correcting Mr. Cain's claim and an incorrect allegation that has confirmed the attack, the pressure, the disabling, the insinuation of President Mesic in connection with the establishment of this commission in and ahead of the presidential campaign. If so, and President Mesic himself claims that he did not deal, I trust him as president of the Republic that he did not deal. Then what bothers him or anyone to determine the truth? I am convinced that the investigation committee will determine the truth that will show that it has not been dealt, not that everyone has been dealing. I'm not, and not many others, are I? Then it will help President Mesic's presidential campaign. I don't know why all this noise is coming up in advance. Which is why some shake in advance and claim they haven't done it all the time. Then when they didn't do anything... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25237	Thank you. Next, respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25238	... Mr Cain argued that the aim of this commission is to shock President Mesic. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Turn on the microphone or turn on the microphone.]] It's just not true and it's unacceptable. Disqualifying the commission before it has begun work is not acceptable. It's a very clear goal of this committee. To establish the full truth about Operation Storm as a key operation of the Homeland War. She's not a criminal enterprise. It is an operation that has provided an independent and complete Republic of Croatia. It is unacceptable that today in the Republic of Croatia there is only an evaluation of the operation by journalists, not military analysts, non-institutions, unknown institutions and non-scientists, experts and soldiers who can give an objective assessment of the operation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25239	Thank you. Next correction, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25240	Mr. President, I am also correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow Caine, who said the aim of the investigative commission is to strike President Mesic. President Mesic is not mentioned anywhere in this request. Not in any sentence or word. Here the truth is spoken of by the President of the Republic, but the president, the office was before Mesic and will be after Mesic. So I don't know how he recognizes it in Mr. Mesic. Perhaps the investigative committee will determine that some people around Mesic have done so and may protect him with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25241	And respected representative Ruža Tomasic, correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25242	Mr. President, I'm correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that he has far more important issues than this. There is no Mr Cain because we do not have a future in the European Union until we resolve this among ourselves in Croatia, so we finally take one, a unique position towards The Hague, the European Union and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25243	Thank you. Honorable representative Milorad Pupovac on behalf of the SDSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25244	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, our experience with the committees in this House is at least as far as I know, as far as I can tell. None of the commissions we've formed are even stable, and if it's stable, then it's stopped working. And I, as a representative of this House and a party that has no presidential candidate and has not chosen to support, is interested in discussing first and foremost in this House. Why do we at one critical moment for parliamentaryism in Croatia, for the relationship between the government and the opposition do not have key mechanisms such as commissions that would do their job? That's the real question. And what did we do to have him? And colleagues who initiate this in one, at least part of them, in one piece said we'll discuss Victor Lentz but we'll discuss everything else. So we're going to explore the guarantees that were given there, but we're going to explore others. I would not like to say that it would be wise and fair to apply the same logic in this case but expected. She's expected. Especially since no one can really challenge the fact that not only from the Office of the President of the State, and here it is really not the place to insult the role and institution of the President of the State, regardless of who it is, the transcripts have been leaking since the very early 1990s, information and sales. And then when it came to national security and the matter of peace in the state of gentlemen. Now the question is whether we can give such initiators who have sold peace in their country and the security of their country trust and support for these things. Me and the party I belong to and the policy I'm running, I'm sure they won't be able to. If there's nothing else, then this place I'm talking about, and I still have a lot of fat reasons. And from this place, ladies and gentlemen, I've never heard any presidential candidate speak except one. Who hasn't missed an opportunity to apostrophe himself as a presidential candidate. And it's been months, and Mr. President, this place and this hall are not the scene or the place where the presidential campaign can be held.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25245	It's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25246	And there's a presidential campaign going on. And it's being run.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25247	And it's being run.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25248	So that's how it's supposed to be put. And as for the debate on issues of the Institute of Secret and Institute of Public Affairs, this is not about such difficult issues as treason or treason. The issues of the institute of secrecy and the questions of the public's intituaries. Why we don't have a valid institute of secrecy or a valid public institute. We're all dissatisfied with the way some things are publicly presented. Everyone. But at the same time, I would ask the question here, who has the right, even if he is the Supreme Commander, even if he is the President of the State to negotiate and when he has the right to negotiate people's fates without prior notification of this House. Those I represent about Serbs in Croatia and their fate were caused secretly by those who were not allowed to talk to because we did not empower them. And for me, it's a question of who should have done it. And why he did it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have touched an important issue. But at a small moment. An important issue for Croatia, which is certainly not the moment that we open it today, and no serious state and policy opens it that way, but does it the way it does with archives and with all the documents that are relevant to a country. And a big bust in the chest like this or like that left or right in this respect won't help. I'm sure it won't help. Therefore, if we need to decide on this proposal which, when it comes to matter itself, has the support of the SDSA Club, when it comes to the problem itself. But when it comes to the time when this is to be decided, the SDS will not be able to raise hands for it. Therefore, we also propose to accept this, but to prepare and implement the debate after the presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25249	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Ivo Lončar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25250	Mr. President, my colleague Pupovac said I'm literally quoting. "We have touched an important question in an irrelevant manner." That's completely incorrect. Which is an important or irrelevant moment in politics. Is there any kind of guy I'd like someone to tell me? Otherwise, by contesting this inaccuracy of yours, I'll tell you the following. My life chalk is to respect opinions I disagree with, but it's not very convenient for a man to say this and I respect you both as a man and as an intellectual and as a political Croat, to speak like this at this point. Gentlemen, the truth must be found out no matter who it is or who it's about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25251	Thank you very much. For today, I have called on the extended presidency to discuss issues of importance for Parliament's work on the basis of a unanimous proposal from all club representatives. I'm postponing that session for Tuesday 16th November at 13:30. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25252	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I ask the representatives of the clubs not to argue the HSP club with President Mesic. He is the President of the Republic of Croatia, and I ask you to read exactly what it says here in the future. President Djapic and I, on behalf of the party, worked on behalf of the Club, gave this material to who and where we blame President Mesic. Who are we blaming? We present only facts, facts and facts. And it's happening and transcribing isn't taking away the degree of secrecy. And please nice one more time, now I'm going to read point 3 carefully. It's a motion for a decision. The investigation committee is obliged to establish a list of the registration and archive material found in the Office of the President after the death of Dr. Tudjman. The application of general specific measures to protect the registration and archive material in the Office of the President and other bodies of the State has no Mr Markov, or which are in possession of that material. Because we know how to get here. Most of the ministry was the one that apparently produced that material. And later it went to the President's office. That's what you know how to do. Luka Bebić and I know when we were doing the defense plan. It was created at the Department of Defense and it went to the President's office, the president brought it in. So it's in the transcripts, too. So it's moving on. The circle of persons who have made an insight or can materially unauthorizedly possess this material, and how and how it happened that, without taking down the degree of secrecy mark, transcripts have been published in the media. They gave legal aid to the prosecution in The Hague, why it was not implemented in the work of the government's January 2001 decisions. That's it. Here's Mr. Vujic said it nicely, but he was the minister in charge of it. The president of former Racan signed the decision, he as minister should tell me why it wasn't done. I'm not saying it's his fault, but we want to know the truth. Because to this day, that decision is not respected. Someone told me maybe it was against the constitution. What didn't go to the constitutional assessment? So the argument has been put out here a lot. Mr. Markov is talking about the fact that according to the Data Protection Act, no council was formed, neither this nor that. Well, Mr. Markov used to be president of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thus, we were made in all situations interested in the truth and only the truth. And there can't be any political reason, Mr. Pupavac, above the truth, any campaign above the truth, but if we're going to do a campaign here. We sure as hell don't take her. In this part, we are interested in the truth and help of the Croatian state, the help of whom? To our generals who are accused and awaiting trial, some are already in The Hague, because it is our obligation to reveal the truth about the counterfeiting. If it is, who did it? So you know what that means for defense one? So you should be aware. And what could be stronger than that? And if we're going to campaign already, what Mr. It's going down. [[You don't understand.]] And the Zuzul case is part of the campaign. Let's be realistic. Is it? It is. It's all part of the cappella. And this part of Mr. Kurt's when he said that our candidate, or he's independent of our support, is an important difference, Mr. Letica did it. So let it be established. We're not afraid of the truth. Well, don't think about it. We are the real ones, my people. What's the difference between us and others? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25253	Thank you very much. Now we're done discussing clubs. We still have 16 speakers. In order for the debate to take place, it might be good to have a little economical debate so that we can have that break and prepare for the vote, because otherwise we will continue without a break. At 3:00, we have a vote. We're going to an individual debate. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25254	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I will, in accordance with the position of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and the personal position, be sure to exclude myself from voting on this subject, because I believe that this topic has come, let me put it that way, whether I want it or not, at a bit of an awkward time. As a rule, I am always in favour of forming and establishing investigative committees and examining the truth when there is a public interest and when there are factual grounds or reasonable doubts that something should be examined. However, I am not in favour of actually establishing investigative committees to replace the regular legislative and political activities of this House. That's number one. And number 2, I must say that I am not in any way in favour of Parliament being at any point in the agenda, and even on this one, turning into a stage where not only a political struggle is being fought, which is perfectly normal and understandable, but rather a pre-election campaign for non-presidial candidates who are not actually able, so they are not members of Parliament, so they are not able to be fully, completely equal. For this reason, I believe that if there were any idea of forming this investigative commission that it should be formed on this subject after the presidential elections. Second. The fact is that there remains actually a question of the relationship between the Institute of Secret and the public, actually a question of what it is secret, what it is public on our occasions. In such a situation, it is quite clear that a different way of discussing the transcript should be discussed. Indirectly, by amending and supplementing the laws or full adoption of a new law which should determine the appropriate degree of secrecy, what are issues of national and national interest which deserve to be declared both secret or secret information and in such a situation as is known, relating to the issue of national security, or the security of defence and security of the country can and should be prescribed by law. And it doesn't make sense to open a discussion about data leaks, about investigation, and to form an investigative commission regarding transcripts, without having previously regulated these issues by law and not being properly asked. Third. Look, at the same time, if the law doesn't do it, we're getting into a constitutional-legal college. The fundamental principle, including the rights, human rights of human and citizen members, is that they have the right to information and that they have the opportunity to control public authority through this information. In such a situation, any issue which is subject to the work of state institutions, regardless of whether it is a legislative, executive or judicial authority, or the Institute of the President of the Republic, is absolutely certain that the Croatian public can and should actually be informed. In this regard, there is no doubt that it also fulfils the constitutional right of every citizen to information. Now, the Constitution itself says, in such matters it is possible to make an exception, if the issue is protected, if it is the defence and security of the country and in such a situation, these exceptions should be prescribed by law and that is what we lack. We should pass such a law and we should rather discuss the formation of an investigative committee, actually have a bill to discuss today. Fourth. Of course, this also raises the question of actually leaking these documents from the performance of certain social tasks, so if you want to cooperate with the Hague court. The question is, what exactly do we want to say to the public? Are we against these documents being delivered to The Hague or not? We forget the fact that according to Article 119, according to our Constitution, the public can be excluded from court for the protection of national security, but you are now asking the question of what documents they are and how they go there. It is therefore clear that it is not disputed that the Hague Court is an integral part of the Croatian judiciary in view of the unfortunate circumstances in which we have lived and formed, and given the fact that, due to the great Serbian, aggression against the Republic of Croatia, a special court for this area has been established with the international community and the Security Council. And which is extended and of course has competences for the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And in this respect, it is not a debate whether or not to submit transcripts, but how and in what way I should be tried or treated in relation to the Hague Court. Fifth. Of course, there is also a very serious question here that is also being raised through this debate. You know, we should discuss how the transcripts have been leaked practically since the death of the president, the former president of the Republic of Croatia, the president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. And why don't we discuss how transcripts were leaked during President Tudjman's time. Who at the time were leaking, at the time of the war, when the Republic of Croatia was at war and when these transcripts were telling state and military secrets. So remember that you could read in individual, individual newspapers transcripts, for example, about meeting at the highest level in the Republic of Croatia with Raskovic, etc., etc., etc. Where there were very serious questions. So why stop, why stop the date on time x. It can't be stopped. Therefore, it is open to talk and to be seen. Sixth. If we discuss the Office of the President of the Republic,... It cannot be introduced without the institution of the President of the Republic. [[You don't understand.]] But then this is not a debate through the formation of an investigative committee and I think it should be fair and correct and in such a situation if there are grounds, if there are arguments, whether or not facts, then a question of responsibility should be raised by the President of the Republic, in accordance with Article 104. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but such a debate is then asked whether or not the President of the Republic of Croatia has violated the Constitution and if he has violated it, then it is necessary to initiate the procedure of this Parliament before the Croatian Parliament and to take action before the Constitutional Court to make the appropriate decision. This is how we play a little cat and mouse. We would also like to do something and in fact everything is turned into a debate where the Assembly is being dragged into the debate as a legislative body in the debate on pre-election and electoral actions for the election of the president of the Republic of Croatia, not to solve the problem that is important and important, because it is an important issue under which terms, as legally prescribed, how they are used and how they can be used, which authorised them to distribute not only transcripts, but first of all, whether it is necessary that all those issues we had read in the paper are at all declared public military, official or other secret. I personally think that many of the things I read in the papers that were written on the basis of the transcripts are simply no secrets. However, it was about issues that the public had discussed before, but some did, and the law needs to be regulated. The question should then be addressed as to how and who is authorised to distribute with them and under what conditions and when such documents must be made public, not only, but also to competent institutions. I think it's always when it comes to protecting the human rights and freedoms of every man and citizen. And of course there is an additional question in all of this, in fact, how to avoid conflict here and possibly overlap in the jurisdiction of individual institutions. In this regard, I have serious reservations, no matter what my point is, this is not and the debate on the current President of the Republic, because it refers only to the Office of the President of the Republic, I think it is still being touched and very seriously the President of the Republic, and that at the same time one question is actually being opened for which this debate is not well prepared and this area is not legally regulated, and therefore I, unfortunately, am able to support the establishment of an investigative committee. Although I stress again, I am generally in favour of establishing when there is an appropriate argument, when it is asked for the truth, but when it is a bit of a pull to a political game that can be interpreted in a formal legal sense even as a possibility of abuse of rights, I could not accept it because I think it is then politicising the problem rather than solving problems in the interests of the Croatian public and the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25255	Thank you, we have one replica and one correction. First replica, Mr. Ante Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25256	My colleague Arlović, it's not just a leak of classified information that has been given an accent in the debate, but it's what motivated both me and our club to go with this initiative, at least presidential elections, well, it's now convincing each other, I don't want to talk about it. The fundamental question is, among other things, whether it is an act of falsification of the minutes, an act of forgeries of the record, and which is the basis of the indictment that forms a criminal enterprise and a criminal organisation for the persecution of Serbs from Croatia. Our intensity is to get that attitude, that's the point of it all. So, we'll, we can, in a short time, establish and deadlines are suffocating us. So the election is January 2nd. But it's about the 23rd. The 11th Security Council is preceded by a resolution that allows Gotovina to enter the ranking with Mladic and Karadzic and we must do what is possible with us, to determine whether the transcript is the basis of that indictment that came unauthorized to The Hague by "distributing" as it is said here. Is he basically a forger, which there are elements that it's a forger. And that's the least we can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25257	Answer to the replica Mr. Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25258	I mean, we've now received new information from fellow Djapic through this replica which is at the same time also a representative of the promoter. Unfortunately, the question round lists something different in order that basic questions and all the issues that have been raised here, starting with the archive and registered material found in the President's office. Then, after the death of the President of the Republic, whether general special measures are provided for in the Office of the President of the Republic and other authorities for the protection and preservation of archives. Who is enabled to view the archive? Did the material come into possession of unauthorized domestic and foreign individuals? As the media illegally came into illegal possession... so whether the key transcripts, the corresponding tone records were examined and the transcripts were legally delivered and if the transcripts of the transcripts were carried out in such a way that only in the descriptive part are spoken... Yeah, so actually at the end of the text is added as a possibility...... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, but only one of the questions is mentioned and the question of counterfeiting, and in this respect, it's not a fundamental question, as you say. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I was talking about everything that you've indicated, in this respect it's obvious that you who are instigating this investigative commission are also looking for and need, you rightly warn that it is not properly regulated, that it should be regulated, that it should be regulated, that the rules of the game should be laid down. But this is from the questions you mentioned, one of those questions but it's not fundamental.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25259	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25260	Mr. Arlovic said one inaccuracy, which is that this was not made according to the rules of the profession. Mr Arlovic, it was made according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it was made under the Law on the Investigation Commissions, it was legal. Nomotechnically, all questions are defined, which you yourself have admitted. Please don't say that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25261	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vice President Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25262	There's no point in me inviting myself to 209, but I do. I didn't just say what you colleagues were correcting as an incorrect assumption. I wasn't talking about the rules of the profession, I was simply saying something else, that this document was made and that there was not enough ground and doubt and arguments and evidence that it was entering into that part and that in this respect it was turning into a political debate. But that's another question, I think you just misunderstood me. Okay. [[Intruder: Read.]] I will.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25263	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25264	Mr. Vice President of the House, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start where my colleague Vujic ended up speaking for the club. There's only something worse than the use of the transcripts, which is the abuse of that abuse here in the Parliament. Why? Well, because it's happening right here in the Parliament. You know, if it were going on in presidential candidates' interviews in the media, that it was happening on posters of presidential candidates where they accuse each other of this or that, and they pointed out this or that, then it wouldn't be so terrible. But this manipulation in the Parliament is bringing the Parliament down to a level I find difficult to imagine lower. Why such a strict grade? Well, because the proposer in Dr. Letica's person, immediately, so there's no confusion in his performance found the suspect, found him guilty, and now all he has to do is give a sentence. And I guess that punishment should be a loss of presidential election. In short, now that we're analyzed, we don't need to think that our public is unintelligent. Because when we analyze who is proposing and who supports this proposal, when they do it and how they do it, we will come up with answers to questions about why they do it. Who's proposing and who's supporting? It proposes HSP, which has its candidate, i.e. supports the independent candidate, Mr Letica, and supports HDZ, which has its candidate in the presidential campaign, Mrs Kosor. So when studies of public change show relatively weak ratings of those two candidates compared to that of the third important competitor, they reach for such methods. When does this happen? This happens at a time when HDZ maintains its mini parliaments per county and represents its candidate on them. Although here we are, Mrs. Byte teaches that the campaign has not yet begun. Now just before, Mr Djapic said that the task of this commission was to determine who forged the transcripts, if they were and if they were falsified. Please. Why did HSP not propose this topic as soon as a Brijuni transcript appeared in public. ... You would be, you would be, you would be, let me finish, you can replicate me, you can correct my allegations, but don't throw me out of the bench, because you're distracting me, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'd be convincing, you'd be more convincing than right now, or why don't you wait for the end, or the presidential election, so don't suggest it after that election, you'd be more convincing again. Because neither the promoter nor the party who supports this proposal, I would dare say that I am not so interested in the truth about this issue as much as they are interested in the success of their candidates. This certainly is not a good time to discuss, at all, the debate on this commission and the establishment of this committee. Because imagine this commission, for example. finds that the candidate, presidential candidate Letica, was the first person to forward transcripts from the Office of the President of the Republic. Look, it can be very embarrassing for candidate Leticia. Very embarrassing. Or that this commission finds that Mrs Kosor was a prominent HDZ member when the HDZ government failed to provide the Hague court with transcripts that have been proven to have a significant impact on the reduction of the sentence of the accused Blaskovic. It can be very embarrassing for that candidate. What is the public's interest in this matter? The "Promotion Plus" published a survey two or three days ago with a question marking the event in October. 39.2% of respondents said it was the problems of Croatian drivers in Iraq, and 2.2% said it was the publication of a British transcript. That result is quite logical to this study "Promotion Plus". Our carriers lost their jobs because they were stopped, significantly reduced works on road construction, and if they are continued then these roads will obviously work Bechtel so they won't be able to get a job in it, and they've raised loans to buy their trucks and now they can't pay off those loans so they have to risk their heads driving to Iraq to survive. It's a topic that interests the public and almost 40% of the respondents, and only 2.2% think it's a Brian transcript. There's something else symptomatic about this proposal. What importance did the President of the Parliament give him in the agenda? The proposal was sent on November 2nd, and here we find ourselves in this consolidated agenda under point 7. If we take any other proposal from the opposition, let's say the SDP changes to the Telecommunications Act, which was sent another 16 September, a month and a half before this proposal, and it is as point 22. I am convinced that citizens are certainly more interested in finally stopping the practice that THT is charging them for impulses that they don't realize. This is certainly of greater public interest than these transcripts, because it concerns direct citizens, but of course it is not in HSP or HDZ's interest, because they are more interested in how to correct the bad rating of their presidential candidates. In order to show seriousness to this House, according to the institution of the President of the Republic, according to the institution of elections for the President of the Republic, I propose that this initiative be withdrawn and referred to in the parliamentary procedure immediately after the presidential elections, with the fact that, in any case, the Commission's work is not limited only in time after President Tudjman's death but also to cover the period of two Croatian presidents, because as we can see during the late President Tudjman, there were these same phenomena that are ruining the everyday life. Then the seriousness and well-meaning of the promoter would be shown, and I think we would preserve the dignity and dignity of this House, which unfortunately is increasingly crumbling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25265	Thank you very much. We have nine total corrections and a replica so that we can make some known to replica producers and correct incorrect allegations, and I'll give you an explanation because I'm obliged to put it into the agenda. Points in the agenda are included in the Rules of Procedure. That's how it's explained. Now we're going with the replicas first because Mr. Anto Djapic first answered with a replica, so let's start with it. Here you go, Mr. Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25266	I must say that I am still surprised by your general notion that the Croatian Party is entitled to more important this matter than telecommunications. You know very well that we have called our voice on telecommunications countless times because of telecommunications, and while your government was in power we have been asked to publish your government's agreement on the sale of telecommunications that you didn't want to do the same. And why didn't we before, you said? It is not true that we did not before, we were the first to warn in the Croatian media at all about the existence of a transcript that is or is not falsified that should be established, which car to The Hague court, which the government did not know existed or forwarded as the only authority in co-operation with The Hague court to The Hague. So we found out at the beginning of the 10th, we pushed it and immediately announced that we would go with the formation of an investigative commission if it could pass in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, this coincided with the presidential election, which did not affect our intention at all. I speak constantly, but you do not listen to what I have said, that it is the last days before Judge Meron's report in front of the Security Council when he will bring a final resolution on... a strategy of cooperation with the Hague court where it can happen that General Gotovina enters the same plane unfortunately, with Karadzic and Mladic and it is our duty to try to do something among other these things, to determine whether it is a counterfeit, because on the basis of this falsification it is a monstrous charge that the Croatian Army... is the cleaning of Serbs in Croatia. That's the main thing. Therefore, I ask you not to talk about binding the integrity of this House, because we, with such actions, are raising the integrity of the Parliament and giving it the role it must play, and that it deals with political issues when it is of first-class importance for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25267	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25268	Dear colleague Djapic, there's a misunderstanding between us. I didn't say HSP was a non-essential Telecommunications Act. No, I don't. I said that President of the Parliament had put this item before to discuss the point of telecommunications that had been on his desk for a month and a half. He did so fully business, though, because it is his to deploy points in the agenda, according to his will. Obviously, the fact that citizens pay for something they haven't spent has no value for the President of the Parliament or that meaning as this point. Secondly, HSP warned precisely when transcripts appeared, but did not put a proposal in the procedure. He didn't give it up the second day then. If you had done it the other day, no one would have objected to you that it was the presidential campaign. ... And third, Meron, Judge Meron, it's a deadline I think 23.11. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So do you really think that from today or from the draft committee this commission will complete its work and reach conclusions by the 23rd of this month? Please nice, please nice, please nice. By the 23rd of this month, this commission will hardly hold its first constitutive session, let alone conclude something. And for that reason, and for that and for all the facts that I bring to you, Mr. Djapic, not to make an impression, but it is almost evident that this proposal is in the position of supporting the presidential candidate behind you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25269	Second replica, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25270	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Stazic. Our request, the motion for a decision on the establishment, was submitted 24 hours before the beginning of the session. Look at the Rules of Procedure, and you'll see that President Shakespeare then had to act on our request. It's all clear in the Rules of Procedure. True, I'll tell you one more truth. Your independent representative Mirko Filipovic told me that he would like to sign the same, but came later, this request because he is also interested in the full truth and only the truth as a Croatian defender. Therefore, please, tell the public whether you are interested in the truth or whether it is more important for you to have a presidential election. I don't care about presidential elections, it's important to the truth because of those unfortunate people in The Hague, for the sake of the Croatian public, for the sake of Croatian defenders and for what you've all been saying today. As it turned out, what was done was sold and sold on the black market, I have a lot of cases like that. So we have to stop it. We pointed to a state of security. We pointed at everything first. Therefore, if you're interested in the truth, support. If you want to expand, we'll accept, expand, give the amendment. Give me the amendment, we'll expand to the period before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25271	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25272	Nobody here, Mr. Kovacevic, neither did I, told anyone at the SDP Club that we weren't interested in the truth. The truth certainly needs to be established. That's the truth we've been waiting for, like, 14 years. Since Mr. Letica, as President Tudjman's advisor, has shown everyone that the first transcript should be handled and sold to journalists. It's a morning trip for everyone else. For 14 years, we've been waiting for the truth about both this event and everything else. You tell me, what will happen to the dead in the truth if we wait another month for that truth? Will that truth cease to be true? He won't, he won't. But the requirement to determine the truth will be much, much more credible if it is left behind after the presidential election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25273	Thank you. The third replica is Mr. Representative Franjo Arabovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25274	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I can't help but look at some of the statements Mr. Stazic made, so I'm just curious, I'd even ask him to explain, since I'm new at the assembly. He says HSP and HDZ have given their candidates, thereby wanting to blacken the upcoming president, so that they have more chances in the presidential campaign. And you're not referring to yours, that you're protecting the current candidate, the current president as, we're not letting him go aside, we're not gonna touch him until he wins, and if he doesn't win, but when he loses, let's go after him. He's not the president anymore, so let's go, now we can. And I would only ask that, if this can be done, if it can't be established by the 23rd of 11th, let's get to the beginning of the election. Let's not have the campaign, every event said Mesic betrayed Croatia, Mesic sold out. Let's do it whether or not, so we'll all be happier and happier to get into the campaign and there won't be any denials of these, denials like this. I'd just like to make that clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25275	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25276	Dear fellow Arabovic, you did not seem to listen very carefully to me. I said that this debate itself could harm candidate Letica for the reasons already mentioned, not to repeat them, that he was the first person to deal and sell transcripts. That it could harm the candidate Kosor, who was a prominent HDZ member at a time when the HDZ government did not deliver liberating transcripts to the court in The Hague even though lawyer Nobilo knew that these documents existed, although he insisted on them. He insisted and specifically asked for it. These questions, these questions simply don't open at the time of the campaign because we won't be able to close them. Not until the campaign starts, not until the campaign starts, not until the campaign is held, the election date. They won't be able to close those questions. Therefore, in the interest of fair play, in the interest of, I repeat, the seriousness of the promoter, the dignity of this House, all of us, all of us, agree, raise a consensus on it and we will achieve it immediately. Well, that's what all the parties have offered you, with this job that's been waiting 14 long years, it's been waiting another month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25277	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25278	Dear Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic insulted us as legislators, Article 214 and said that we were inconclusive according to our request. And please give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25279	I don't think he deserved Mr. Stazic's warning because it's his opinion of the inconclusive nature of certain agents. I don't qualify it as an insult, so therefore, here I wouldn't make that warning. And we move on, I don't qualify her as an insult, that's all. The fourth one was answered by Mrs. Katharina Fuček, please. Here you go, Katarina Fuchek, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25280	Mr. Stazic, it is never a good time to determine the truth because those who do not want to determine it for them are never suitable. Therefore, you cannot challenge HDZ's right to exercise its constitutional right of office in Parliament in order to support a particular initiative of general public interest, such as you cannot dispute the party's right to support your candidate and the right to party work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25281	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25282	No one ever, dear colleague Fuček is from the SDP Club, but as far as I've heard from any other clubs in individual debates at least so far said that the truth should not be established and that no time is good for establishing the truth. It's good, it's good. We're just pointing out why these months or two aren't a good time to determine the truth about this issue. Very specific. That's all. And don't, it doesn't make sense actually, it doesn't make sense to twist words and the sense of what's being said here on behalf of clubs. We are for the Bureau of Investigation. We are after the election. We are in favour of an investigative commission, to extend his scope in time, before President Tudjman's death. And we're going to have a consensus here in the Parliament about it, and we're not going to, I assure you, nowhere to be late, but running ahead of the ore, running ahead of the ore here, maybe to correct this, we're not going to show maybe my insecureness, even if we're all together, but also disrespecting the institution of the presidential election, and also disrespecting this institution that we're sitting in, because we're not enough... we agree then we're not seriously considering the moment we're sitting in. Well, it's not the presidential election of anything. It is a political event, as well as this request, as well as a requirement to determine the truth, a political event. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25283	After these eight reports and 9 injuries to the Rules of Procedure, we still have 5 corrections. The first is Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25284	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic, quotes: "and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supported the proposal for an investigative commission for the reason you said because of our candidate in the upcoming presidential elections" and that is not true. I am sure both HSP and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community have undermined this HSP proposal for a reason...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25285	Correction, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25286	For reasons, it is not true but because of responsibility to the history of the Croatian people, the most famous history of the Croatian people, not because of the party candidates, because in this history that we need to protect is the best future for our next generation, which will be different from Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25287	I didn't hear this last one. You know what, we don't need to banish the Institute of Warning especially if the one who deserves it proposes to get a warning. Don't do that anymore. And inflation reminder actually degrades. I won't, I haven't heard enough. Let's move on, to finish this episode of correction. Here, the second correction is Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25288	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Stazic, that "proposers and advocates who support him are not interested in the truth". This is an incorrect allegation and the promoters and those MPs who have supported their signatures the proposal for this decision just interested in the truth and only the truth, and while we are then the truth of course the noun of a female species that has no plural but has yet another quality that regardless of when it is found it hurts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25289	The opinion also expressed, on the qualification of Mr Stazic, and this could not be qualified as a correction of the incorrect assumption but as a correction of the opinion. And since in this House it has become a common thing to use then I see no way to stop these corrections that are not correcters of the claim, but opinions so we will continue to tolerate and so on until we agree to uphold the criteria for correcting the incorrect assumption and not correcting the incorrect assumption. Third, correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25290	I thank you, Mr Vice President, my colleague Stazic said, saying that HDZ does not care about the truth, but about the establishment of this commission, but about improving his candidate's rating in the presidential elections. This is completely incorrect, establishing the truth is the only interest of the HDZ in establishing this Commission of Investigation, unlike you fellow Stazic, who apparently refuses such an investigative committee did not care to establish the truth, but once again you confirm your position from two years ago when on the same initiative that the SDP Club was also against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25291	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Maria Byte, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25292	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Stazic, in a series of incorrect allegations that the election campaign began with the HDZ mini-selections. This is incorrect, Mr. Sazic, because HDZ mini parliaments are part of the HDZ's usual party work with its membership and since when is your concern as a member of the SDP in how HDZ works with its membership. And by trying to correct me, it is incorrect, but it is true that I have claimed that the election campaign begins after the announcement of candidates who have gained the right to run for office by announcing the election commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25293	Thank you very much. And correcting the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, since this incorrect assumption I wanted to give up has already been corrected, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25295	Thank you for giving up. 14 we had everything in total, that's less than 15. Let's move on, word has Mr. Representative Joseph Leko go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25296	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I almost wanted to give up the debate, given that the topic had narrowed down to the dilemma, whether we were to the truth or not to the truth. I would really be foolish if I were to say publicly and if I thought I was against the truth, and it would be even worse for us in the Parliament or for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if the truth could only be established in the Croatian Parliament. I think our job is to make sure that all segments and all institutions of the state system work and do their job without it not all parts of the state system will work. I know that there is a legal structure in Croatia, and an institutional structure for collecting, processing, sorting and using archive construction. And if the problem could be solved, and if the initiative of the HSP Club, which was, of course, legitimate and legitimate, would aim to implement all the institutions of the Croatian State responsible for this problem, of course, not to look at the timing, at the time of the submission of the initiative. The goal would be truly justified, it would be nationally doubtful, lasting and valuable. But this problem of colleagues and colleagues takes a really long time and it starts even from the creation of the Croatian state, and I am convinced that none of us has been through those 12, 13 years to discuss the problem of archival construction anywhere that has not been discussed "so-called. The average" citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And these days, of course, we're talking about it. And one or many of them around, they say it all, so you're not even capable of protecting the government itself, let alone our citizens and our national institutions. You think you can do anything, you know everything and you have the right to talk about everything, which, of course, is true. But that's not how we develop the system. We don't encourage all parts of the state system to function responsibly. The concern of the archive goods of this Croatian state really deserves very professional thorough, serious work. It's a treasure. That's what it's based on, it's going to be based on history and it's going to be based on history. And taking into account the political debate that, of course, we have the right to do, without professional standards and excluding from that state archive, I'm afraid we're not doing a service to our interests. Everyone who remembers, and remembers with great attention, they must have been following the creation of the Croatian state, we know from when this problem comes. And this policy continues to be used by the archival structure to put it a day-to-day political ullitarian. Whether he's using individuals, whether he's using some institutions, but not in a professional way. Not in a proper way. The first occurrence of the transcrypt leak has already been said here several times, ranging from the beginnings of the creation of the Croatian state and when it is not sanctioned then, I fear that the practice has discredited and disabling the laws that we have voted on. That's why I think it's our duty to restore the power of the law. To restore power to the law. And leave the authorities of the Croatian state to assess who was doing the failures. Without that conclusion, we will simply not ask for the Croatian state to be built. However, something about the HSP proposal itself. I'm not going in if it was intended to use time before the presidential election, but you can't erase that circumstance. That the topic that was 12 years old is now at the heart of the profession. It is and can be politically legitimate, partyly justified, but surely I am again expressing my position, not in the function of national interest it is my opinion, nor in the function of developing the tasks of individual institutions of the Croatian state. So if I had to declare myself whether to vote for such a proposal, and given these assessments that I said, regardless of good intentions, my desire not to use time or topic for political engagement, I will really vote for this principled reason against now setting up an investigative commission. Especially since we are not asking for matter to be treated in the spirit of the applicable Law adopted by this Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25297	Thank you very much. We have one replica of Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25298	Mr. Vice President, thank you. A colleague, Leko, has already touched the transcripts since 92, as well as several of his speakers. Of course we're all aware of that. But there is a significant difference when, when transcripts from that time and the intentions of those who gave them to the public are compared to times that, which are current. Namely, those who gave the transcripts to the public at the time had only one intention. And that's to bring down the dignity of the then president, bring down the president's dignity and blacken out, try to blacken the then president. There's something else going on today with the transcripts. Today is not a motive, nor is it the motivation of those who gave these transcripts that certainly wasn't their motivation, so it wasn't their motivation to compromise the integrity of the current president. So we need to make a clear distinction in the intentions of those who played those transcripts. And I think that was very important to say especially in the context of what Mr. Leco was saying when he said that the release of the transcript into the public had already begun since 92.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25299	Answer to the line Mr. Representative Joseph Leko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25300	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Representative Matušić has just fallen into the trap I am fighting. From his subjective point of view, he assesses whether a colleague of Letica and with what motives he has given, whether someone else with these motives has given transcripts, and does not advocate principle. And the relationship to the matter that this matter deserves through the State Archives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25301	Thank you very much. Mr. Professor Slaven Letica, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25302	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm not surprised, but I'm getting ready to go on the official trip, but I'm listening to the more difficult colleagues I've met in the '90s. So, at that time, you must know that the public was the only possibility of defending Croatian national interests, because the Union of Communists led by Ivica Racan and the people who are discussing Croatia today. You need to know, if you want to talk on this subject that we need to talk seriously, the transcripts now published after 2000 will cost Croatian warriors over 200 years in prison. A transcript that was then published with my full consent very wisely and after a serious debate by Dr. Franjo Tudjman about this you can see a very precise note from the Office today about the whole procedure as it happened. I agreed to publish that transcript because it was the only way to stop a well-organized, well-organized, well-organized Serbian propaganda. Namely, after that meeting on the high street at the time, it was a publicly recorded conversation, so there were no listening devices that were later made technologically, she was a stenographer and cameraman in the corner, after which Jovan Raskovic went to one of 15 gatherings in Croatia and started with 2,000 people after three days on 10,000 people. He rebelled against the Serbs and of course it was a wise state decision to expose this type of lie. So we knew how you were acting at that time, we know today. What concerns me, which you've had for 15 years, wasn't enough to figure out what this is all about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25303	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Agent Niko Rebic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25304	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This is a topic that has long irritated the Croatian public. It is as old as the independent Republic of Croatia. Just a few months after the establishment of a democratically elected government in light of the war, the president's office was first published in the press stenograms of Dr. Tudjman's talks. The purpose of my debate is not to discover who's actually the first transcrypt dealer from the President's Office. It was then that it was clear what was going to happen and what consequences would it have for the country if it was not regulated by law. Then, until 1996, information and data were leaked mainly from secret services and information communities to the media, producing major or small affairs and scandals. As a result, a law on the protection of the secrecy of information was passed in 1996. Of course this law hasn't solved the problems. The press kept coming up with classified information. There were abuses, bribery by secret services, discredition of persons, etc. But what happened in 2000 by changing power is difficult to imagine in a serious and orderly state that I am the state’s top ahead of such a thing. That's what our public feared, and that's the important difference between what happened until 2000 and what's happened since 2000. So by 2000, they were dealing petty clerks, some advisers, and the intelligence community that had each other's accounts, but what's the point. In 2000, it was preceded by the president and the ministers, so the state summit. So that's the difference, and we need to make that clear. Despite the indetermination of the 1996 law, such a law would have been difficult for them to comply with. This way, who knows for what reasons anarchy was introduced and in the archives available and taking down the secret markings. We suspect that this was in accordance with the rules, and therefore this commission should be thoroughly investigated and I believe that it will have the support to come to the full truth and finally have some responsibility for those who were so unserious then in the Croatian state. At times, it was the impression that the Prime Minister and the Minister as if the President, the Government and the Ministers were competing on who would deliver faster and more information to anyone who asked for it. Almost all of the rooms in which the storage of archival buildings was opened and opened, almost all foreign journalists and third-rate spies who had an interest in it could do so. The Hague investigators don't even talk. They could come in whenever they wanted and get out of the office whatever they wanted. He particularly cares and hurts about what happened with the presidential archive that stored all transcripts and stenograms of conversations conducted before and during the Homeland War. In this regard, any smart government would be particularly concerned because all conversations were recorded, and this was among other things a historical structure from which scientists and historians would reconstruct important historical events and decisions and circumstances in which they were made and what consequences they had for the creation of the Croatian state. Can you even imagine that the current president is recording and storing all conversations in his office? It's actually the most about the person, about personality and responsibility. There were ministers, and in this he specifically preceded a former defence minister who had no clear criteria with almost all the secret documents from the Homeland War in the Ministry of Defence removed the mark of secrecy. Unfortunately, the damage and consequences of this behavior are inconceivable. We're putting up with them right now. Perhaps the Hague indictments and unacceptable qualifications of these indictments would not have seemed so if we had been able to edit and preserve archival structures and thus national interests. I am sure that the strategic consequences of this behavior will be endured for decades, primarily in a security and economic sense. We have heard about this and today, in fact, how many people from the intelligence mile are working on economic spying on Croatia. Everything shows how young we are, vulnerable and fragile the state and democracy. Here you can best see how we should learn and be envious, mature and stable in the states, how they treat their state records and secret information. This is clearly witnessed by the example of England, the archives from World War II, which is interesting for us because it probably speaks of the role of Englishmen and allies in the greatest tragedy of the Croatian people in Bleiburg. When 45 years have elapsed and the archive should have become available to the public, the assessment of their services is that, in order to protect national interests, the deadline is extended for a new 20 years. That's how serious statesmen and states do it, and we need to learn from them. That is why I support it, even though we know that few commissions have completed the founding task. I support the establishment of this commission, I want to believe that there is also one rock in the mosaic of creating a mature and stable state and democracy, there is a big job ahead of it and I hope that with the support of all because everyone should be interested and that it will perform its role and task to regulate at least this part of the leak of classified information and data of exceptional importance to the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25305	Thank you very much. We have three incorrect allegations and one replica. The first correction to the incorrect allegations by Ms. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25306	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative mostly spoke well of leaking information by the year 2000. However, he argued when the newspaper published some of the content or parts of the transcripts that the fact itself published caused the Croatian public to be disgusted. That's incorrect, buddy. It primarily caused the public to be appalled by the content of these transcripts because it revealed the nature, the way, the form of the rule of the then government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25307	Also an opinion expressed, but we're moving on to the same recipe. The second correction is Ms. Zeljke Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25308	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25309	And third, the correction of Mr. Jozo Radosh's incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25310	Mr. President, the representative has therefore made a number of incorrect allegations accusing the MPs without arguments and so do I. Therefore, no document has been removed without the official powers of the defence minister in several categories, etc., according to the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this is continued after the new minister and the new government came into office. Therefore, it is quite an incorrect assumption. The Secretary of Defense if he thought of me he took down one secret mark but it wasn't dealing. It is the only document in this country that has appeared in the Croatian public in the past 12 years. But it was a document that compromised Slobodan Milosevic and not the Homeland War and his defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25311	Thank you very much. And more replicas of Mrs. Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25312	I want to replicate, in fact, a whole series of completely untrue accusations without any argument made here and which should have a goal, I would say falsely accusing and destroying the integrity of the former government ministers, and I would even say the previous ones by 2000. Namely, a colleague spoke of the difference between the people who dealt until 2000 and after 2000. Until 2000. said he small clerks and after 2000 ministers and Prime Minister. It is a complete fictional and unfounded claim, since neither the former nor the previous ministers had any need to deal with anything because they had all the powers and were able to dispose of these documents. They were handing out documents to those who were probably on the orders of someone else, and I will say to whose, at all, I will be able to get these documents, and these were people from HDZ's trust back then to 2000 who, in secret ways, perhaps even the ministers came to those documents, sold them and handed them over to the Court of Justice in The Hague or the press. And for the following reason to accuse one of that very establishment, HDZ's establishment and protect others. It will soon be witnessed not only by opposition but unfortunately by those indictees in The Hague who are there today. To protect themselves, some of your ranks sold those documents to accuse others again of your ranks.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25313	Thank you. The answer to the replica Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25314	Well, I'd have to, I'd have to be obvious, so my colleague, Radosh, I said former minister, you recognized each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25315	It's not about Mr. Radosa's replica. but the replica can only go. [[Intruder: But well that's all in response.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25316	So nothing changes here, nothing changes here, the cliché is the same. So Mrs. Antunovic insists that she did not like delivering transcripts and that's why some have finished. So it's all the same package and I'm saying that not only did they give what was not sought but also played an important and significant role for the penalties and qualifications of the president. Mr. Radosh speaks, he's under government order, so it doesn't really matter if it's government order. It's important that you took off your protection... [[Intruder: It's not about the replica!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25317	No, it's over, it's over. Mr. Jozo Radosh reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25318	Mr. Vice President, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Rebic was supposed to appear and could only replicate Mrs. Antunovic and not me, had no right to do so and injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25319	I responded immediately to such an attempt. And here I go, moving on. The word is from Madam Representative Katarina Fuchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25320	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will begin my debate on this topic with a sentence of time, which means that the opposite of the opinions that have been heard from some fellow MPs who have spoken before that debate will violate the integrity of this House. I think otherwise, it will return to this House, and not only to the Parliament, but also to the seriousness of the state. Because we already have a multi-annual democratic parliamentary practice that when certain areas come to the Parliament that we need to regulate, we already have two approaches in principle. Why are we inventing hot water, why don't we share the experience of developed democratic countries when they already have it in their application, when it's all seen, fictional, or other approach? No, we are specific, we must arrange this in a special, in our, Croatian way. It is right here that we have expressed that we have arranged a serious state problem for the publication of the transcripts that go back to the actual period of creation and defence of Croatia's sovereignty from the president's office in a particularly specific Croatian way. And that's how we did it, and what have we achieved? We have violated the reputation of this House, we have violated Croatia's reputation in the world. Because regardless of the option we belong to outside, we're all Croats, and that's how they recognize us. The way we represent our country, how we think of it outside, we create that image of ourselves. What do I mean by that? I would like to say that we have not taken over the experience of democratic countries on similar situations, and this is where the experiences of Great Britain were mentioned, which, after 50 years, vetoed the participation of its army in Bleiburg, which actually compromises and causes certain reactions. Second. The transcripts are important not only political documents but important archival documents, important historical documents that, in a certain time, will certainly give the experts the most qualitative and objective image of one time, one space and all the events that took place in this context. And in that sense, we need to support this initiative to determine the truth because the truth here suits everyone. Because it's hard to conclude the truth from certain public publications, newspapers. There are institutions and this Parliament, in terms of supervision, has the right to request the determination of the truth in situations where it has been proven that damage has been done and the damage has certainly been done. Everyone finds himself in their own way, and Croatia is safe in the context of Croatia and external relations. Because then why isn't there a single transcript describing President Tudjman's meeting with some foreign diplomats, why isn't it there? Why is it that these relationships are published, or transcripts that certainly have a specific objective? It does not abolize anyone so it does not abolize the former power that is on several occasions, it has had the opportunity to demonstrate about the publication of the transcript, the existence of the transcript, and in some ways it has made some decision that this is unacceptable and that transcripts must be stored in the state archive so that tomorrow they can be available to those who need to talk about them. Now, is that done, why it wasn't done. Apparently, a commission has been formed and in line with the already known way for commissions to be sitting, sitting, and whether they are a really effective issue is because we have no information about it. The state, the state is not only a parliament, the state is not only a problem when it arises in parliament, but the relationship of all of us in certain situations is a matter of statehood, national security, participation and responsibility for all of us in this. So this, this, this commission that's going to be formed has already many familiar situations of insight. There is safety and it is necessary to determine who gave these transcripts, when giving them, less is already known. Why, for what purpose? If, if it is determined already according to the damage caused, that the objective with which they were granted was to harm Croatia, to the detriment of national security, that it was aimed at day-to-day political struggles with the opponent or better, or even worse with the predecessor who is dead, then, in that sense, a certain responsibility should be taken. Surely the published transcripts greatly entertained the Croatian public because normally in a democratic society when we still had no opportunity in developed democracies to see such practice that state secrets are published in newspapers. They were intrigued, what was said and how was that decided? But inflation has already become, and it is certain that it is no longer even interesting whether transcripts are published. So we've put ourselves in a situation where there's a lot of that that's important in the form of a transcript being published and that it's available but that no one might pay particular attention. We cannot in this way take responsibility for the state whether they were in parliament or in any other duty. What belongs to secrecy, state secrecy and which is governed by special laws must be treated in this way. If legal regulations as a fuse are not enough, let's seriously think about the change. But let's take this problem seriously. That's the problem with all of us because we pointed out? The misery and misery of the new state. We fought for democracy, democratic relations, and we created a picture to calculate each other when we were still seeking the support of others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25321	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues. We've got 11 more people on the table to discuss. As already President of the Parliament has asked you if it is possible for this little thing to be cut short, of course we can't do anything but that's your will, who wants to cut short, who wants to give up and so on. Here's the word, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25322	Thank you, Mr. President. The late President Franjo Tudjman as a historian and knew that history could be faithfully interpreted on the basis of documents and it happened that the historian had been given the opportunity to create history by realizing that this was an extraordinary age, he wanted the coming generations to get the right picture of the Homeland War and the creation of the Croatian state and thus the transfictions were created. The death of the president remained at the mercy of the people who had access to the room where, conditionally speaking, they were being guarded, and thanks to all-powerful television a few days ago, we saw that they were entering that room from today's president's study. In privileged newspapers, transcripts began to appear when they were to go alongside, against individual politicians, primarily late President Tudjman, and then against his fellow generals and so on. The conduct was very, very selective, so for example, the name of the current President Mesic was not mentioned anywhere, and after his testimony in The Hague, a lot of documents went away. Pulled out of context they have achieved a full goal, and often the defence could not reach them. I have a feeling that they were supplementing, correcting the political moment as needed, which was also a message to everyone who was working with the late president so that something might be found against them too, so they'd better keep their mouths shut. The privileged papers did their part of the job, and the parties transmitted everything that could serve to prove the totalitarian system in the 1990s and to glorify the current president. The past government apparently supported targeted document dealing because it did nothing to protect and prevent the sale of the Croatian state's reputation. However, in Croatia history it is more traditional than exception, but in those past times we didn't even have our own state, and foreign bosses were more esteemed than domestic politicians. In a political account with the late president, his fellow generals, the guard of the transcripts wanted to show his size, and you gentlemen who disputed the need to set up a commission become a logistics of the abuse of the transcripts or perhaps just support that was not even controversial. The damage to denunciation can no longer be fixed but transcripts should also be protected from further dealing, counterfeiting and abuse, and this is precisely possible by establishing this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25323	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Madam Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25324	So I want to pollomise with a once-in-a-lifetime fictional and zero-founded claim made by a previous speaker who, who accuses the former government of, would support targeted document-sharing. Perhaps it would be true that there are no facts that I can prove that, unfortunately, in 2000, we were unable to influence the fact that there is a possibility of handing out documents from secret sources to the public or to the Hague court. By 2000, all the archives were so corrupt, and they were robbed by those who had access to these archives until then that we often found ourselves in the situation that the Hague court had documents that do not exist in the archives of the Croatian state. But that is why there are in the private archives of all those HDZ commissioners who could have done it and who did it, I will repeat today again for the responsibility of dirty work, and in, allegedly, on behalf of the defence and creation of Croatia, they would have sent it to someone else, not to us out of opposition, because at that time you had completely excluded us from working for the Croatian state, and then today they accused us of not loving the Croatian state that should normally be yours, they could only have your people in those archives by 2000, and they had robbed them. And I will prove in the next replica on a specific case, in the name and last name that what did not exist in the Ministry of Defense exists in the private archives of your supposedly honorable retired generals. [[Intruder: I have been rested with honor, have been rested with honor.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25325	Mrs. Antunović, you have used two offensive words here, "drying your work" and "in your shame". Otherwise, I think you're using too many strong words at least, that the least I can say is what actually goes to your harm. Well, that's not how I'm gonna give you a heads-up right now. Just keep up with your heavy and offensive qualifications because it suits the ones they're directed towards, and that's why I won't share the warning you deserve. And now the reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25326	I just wanted to tell my colleague that it wasn't true that the archives had been robbed. There was a catalog. It could be seen if they were and were, if something had disappeared what it was, where it was, and the fact is that you knew at the moment you were taking over the power you could because you had most of the Parliament you could explore who took what, when you took what was left, and what was left was to be protected. And, my colleagues, I must tell you that you often have a series of accusations you cannot prove. But we're used to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25327	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it's an order, Mr. Representative Stephen Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25328	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will support the establishment of this committee. Because I think it's just time and it's never too late, and the date that's mentioned is 23.11. when the United Nations needs to make some decisions I think we should take advantage of and that it should be in everyone's interest. Because it's about defending the dignity of the Homeland War, it's about the fact that the story of individual responsibility has grown to command. THAT the practically accused creators of the Croatian state are directly, and we have to stand up to it. Why me in the Parliament. Because the people chose us to protect his interests and protect the Vou State. I'd say a few things, there's this legal one. The responsibilities of both institutions and individuals who gave transcripts should be determined when the national secret was not removed with it. And that the rule of law worked. Then Mr. Today's president would have had to step down a long time ago because he just did, because for a much smaller delinquent President Nixon has suspended his mandate. And I'd say you should also determine the responsibility of both individuals and institutions, which is why the confidentiality mark has been removed from some documents. Because the one who takes serious care of his country would never do that. And third of all, it's important. To determine if the transcripts were falsified. And a lot of facts indicate that they just did because there are no tone records. And even the famous Hague court doesn't respect any of these transcripts. I think that this commission should also establish all the connections between the individuals and Mr Nobile and Mr Blevitt, whom we know he was an associate of the Yugoslav marriage in Australia. I'd like all these truths to be revealed, and then the truth about the defense of General Blaskovic would get a completely different light. Because he did not defend Blaskic but he accused Tudjman and the creators of the Croatian state and therefore I think it is not too late to do this truth, we must come from the truth and the people of Croatia deserve to know who is the one who questioned the dignity of the country's war, and who continues to work against the principle of the Homeland War. I think they're still in the work of the Secret Service, foreign intelligence, which in the community with the Labrador group that hasn't yet been eliminated from our secret services, still acts and needs to be disclosed and finally told the public who they are and what they've been doing. In that sense we should examine and disclose the names of those journalists who were mentioned to have been co-workers of Ubba and Kosa, because I think their role in all of this is obvious. I therefore support that this commission begins as soon as possible and that it is possible to use this time until 23rd if we can in any way help to treat some of the facilities of the Homeland War and the Croatian state differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25329	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25330	Thank you, Mr. President, for the stenograms of numerous conversations that were held during the term of office of President Tudjman found in the Office of the President of the Republic. But perhaps even more interesting ones that have not been found would be interesting to discuss. The topic was imposed as a political topic and an important political topic in early 2000. But at this point, it seems to me, which is also a problem, and I'm going to talk about it, but let me do one sentence first. It seems to me that the problem is current that this is an actuality in Croatia why it does not publish what has to be published. I think this is an acute problem despite the existing law we recently passed, the law on the availability of public information, despite the great appeal of civil society associations that draw attention to it. We've got a www open door, and there's no information. It's something that really needs us all to worry about. When looking at this proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee, then it is clear who the signatories are, or who gave the initiative. There's half the members of the HDZ Club right now. But that's not what he wants to figure out if it's a formal proposer, it's just that as an initiator. Why. Especially since it is proposed to set up a commission only for 2000. And we don't care what happened from 90 to 2000. Maybe because a good part of you knows that. But, unfortunately, the Croatian public knows, too. And she may be partially and appalled by why they leaked this information but mostly everything that went public, everything that went to international institutions in an informal manner, it went before 2000. That is, Rebic, a colleague from the HDZ Club, spoke quite clearly about it. What disgusted the public is the content of these transcripts or works. How the government functioned and why all this was kept secret. And here today, even today, what she wants to show is that so far, I don't know what kind of assessment will be after this assessment by Chief Prosecutor Carla Del Ponte that it is precisely by publishing or delivering the document to The Hague court that damages Croatia. So far, so far, and so far, when the authorities are new furniture is also commendable. Then who's the harm now? Don't put yourself in one impossible situation, and in one double mission where you can't just settle for it. Let's like some part of the electoral body we promised something else, and like each other after Charlie Del Ponte. Which is never satisfied. At least not until the end and always ask for more and more and constantly new documentation. And even some things that may not even be so unknown to our Croatian public. That's why it was actually interesting for the Croatian public. And why that actually seemed to reveal this pedanticly recorded and copied content of meetings that were conducted in the 1990s. And what it's all about is that there are some meetings that become secret and who it is and what it will declares it. Maybe here's a warning that's good for all of us, and it's not just here for some pathetic and poetic evangelist Luke: "There's nothing hidden that won't need to be discovered, nothing secret that won't need to be found out. So all that you say in the darkness will be heard in the light. Everything you whisper in your rooms will be preached on the roofs. And that's the way it would have been." But the question is really being raised here, which would have been revealed since 2000. So, the whole truth is absolutely pointless not to spread the entire gap since the transcripts started, because the transcripts began to leak the moment and the moment they were created. And it's so pointless to limit it to the period. No one claims they may have been leaking since 2000. But if we want the truth, then you have to pull that period since the transcripts started. You can imagine the situation when a judge would have determined if someone had stolen something and said not since it was stolen, but only for this period. So if nothing is determined, or someone else's fault, there's no responsibility for the past period. It's nonsense. And the question arises whether or not the motionor has intended to set up a whole-department commission, whether or not the HDZ would be involved, or to support, or give its initiative. No, you wouldn't. And you say if, then you'd like to submit such a amendment and we would, of course, agree to the establishment of such a commission, because it would really be in his best interest to reveal the true and full truth. And the way it's made. That this and that a good part of the transcripts, or information from them, were leaked before 2000, did not speak of the charges, the charges which were the basis of the transcripts, but on which they were and what cases were being conducted before 2000. This is where my colleague Rados said that some suspects at the time were a suspect, or person, were not even suspects invited to talk. That conversation was then denied, and at that time the Hague Prosecution is precisely defining all transcripts. And then who shared those transcripts in '98? Was it your fault to choose a person or something. But that's a question that's being raised right now. She doesn't impose an opposition, she has, I think she has more important topics at the moment, especially at the moment of budget adoption. Why only a law that should regulate this matter was passed only in 1996, and these started in 90, or 91, respectively. Until then, there was only some regulation laying down, namely the Government's Regulation establishing criteria for the determination of classified defence data, as well as specific and general procedures for keeping them safe. Did anyone at least follow that regulation for the first six, five, six years? If you want the truth, then you have to determine for sure. But the question is already the public knows 90%, and those smallest details, those formal natures aren't even interested. However, what I think is very important, and that is the question of what is at this point, and otherwise it should be constantly interested and what is really interested in our public. It's a matter of public work. All state institutions. How do state institutions work? The basic principle can be precisely the main principle of the right to know. So, the public's right until this second potential interest in something that the public doesn't know, that something is declared a state, official, military secret, it has to be exceptions, and in that sense maybe this is an opportunity, right here, to tell us as legislators that the really existing legislation is inadequate. why it's inappropriate. Because he's not talking about content at all. When can something be declared a state secret? Any government official can put a T mark or a secret up there, and that's all of a sudden, suddenly there's secrets. So there's no criteria, no criteria, and that's something that's inadmissible. So even the most banal things are declared secret, and then it's precisely because of that situation and the great possibility of manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25331	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25332	Your Honor, Mr. President. A colleague, Marinovic, said, was publicly appalled by the content of the transcript. Not only did she get upset, but you, as a government, started criminal charges based on some transcripts and, among other things, against me, that after two years, the State's Attorney's office would reject criminal charges for the absence of a criminal offence...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25333	Dear Jarnjak, thank you. It's not a correction to an incorrect quote. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25334	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25335	Second correction, Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25336	Mr. President, ma'am, it's not true that the information was leaked until 2000. If they are, then quote what documents they are. Since you quoted the Bible and the holy Luke, God said, thank God I look forward to the stray sheep, but to the whole flock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25337	Honored representative, replica, respected representative of Jagoda Martincevic Majska.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25338	I would say that double standards are a very transparent and transparent instrumentation when it comes to this, but also other serious issues that we are discussing today in the Parliament, but it is also interested in the public. Because when Mrs Anticevic-Marinović, but also Mrs Antunovic and others from the SDP, seek and agree on the investigation from the very beginning, so, the one in front of the government, as you said, which is why those same criteria do not want to be applied when our prime minister asks to investigate bribery and corruption from the beginning, so also from your mandate?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25339	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25340	Thank you, Mr. President. Who ever objected to that? Why are you insinuating? Who said that? Who stood up to that? It's just a bad defense. It's another thing, but we don't oppose anything, nor can we oppose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25341	Honorable representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25342	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Let me just start by just by the way, of course, say that I find this formulation of the proposal with this word "registration" I mean a little unnecessarily sophisticated. It's a registrar's license as far as I know the overall archives, so it would be archival, so it seems to me that this is a very unnecessary theater. I think it would be enough to talk about dealing with archival construction in the President of the Republic's office. That would be all said. All right. Let's just say it's not that important, although I find the texts of the assembly must be a little clearer and more precise. I must immediately say that I belong to those who are not happy that certain documents are being drawn through the media without any control. Such a situation is certainly unsustainable because it is a sign of the crisis of the system. There can hardly be any controversy about it. What encourages me, however, to take part in this debate is the fact that this problem is being expressed in terms of something that is at least as important to me as order in state services and the need to keep documents of particular national interest. I'm talking about moral incentives and the motives of participants in this drama with archival structure. In some, of course, his specific way of proposing the club of representatives of the HSP Club deals with this doubt. There are basic indications, standing in one place of their proposal, supporting the private interest at the expense of the general classical public interest. For the promoter, these indications are certainly compromising for those to whom they might potentially be related. It would not be difficult to agree in this regard with the applicant, and yet I do not think that things are that simple, especially when it comes to the moral justification of people's actions in certain situations. We can use ordinary living situations and experiences. Each one of us happened or happened at least one time in our lives that we were forced into difficultly resolved dilemmas and unpleasant decisions. It happens to all of us that we need to hurt someone or objectively endanger their interests, if it seems to be the only way to act justly or achieve an important goal. It happened so, we all know the case with the Lepoey case, that some people, by jeopardizing their own position and interest and other rights protected by law, were giving away a banking secret because they were convinced that it would do something that would really be in the public interest. Which way is more important than the way we come to it. The world has always functioned according to some more or less just or more applicable rules. 50 years ago, one of the founders of the world order was the sanctity of national sovereignty. Today, at least in Europe, I believe that you all notice that, too, the almost adopted knowledge that national sovereignty was a front for many of the crimes that occurred, especially in the first half of the 20th century. It's already been known in 1912 that the Turks, by suffocating the rebellion, have unhingedly killed how many tens of thousands of Armenians. Who was allowed to interfere with the internal affairs of a sovereign state? When it was 1933. Adolf Hitler took power in Germany, Marshal Pirsutsky advised the French government to attack Germany immediately. This little-known episode is written in an interesting way by the famous French sociologist and philosopher Rainou Aaron. In his already classic book "War and Peace Among Nations". If France had listened to Pirsutsky, Arron argues, the outcome of the war would have been certain. Hitler would have been torn down, but the world's public would have condemned France as an aggressor and never the same world public would have known from how many disasters it was spared. Who, after all, is allowed to overthrow the power of a people chosen by law? When we think about the situation today 80 years ago, 70 years ago, we realize that Marshal Pirsutsky's proposal was not in line with the law nor with the adopted standards of international law, but it is also certain that no one today suspects that the proposal is, that is, the proposal. to immediately attack Germany and bring down the Nazi government was both morally and militaryly justified. I cited this not to challenge the meaning of the international legal order but to show that in the meantime, thanks to historical experience, many once sacred principles of international order are shaken. We, as if we hadn't, seem to have at least arrived to digest these changes, which makes it difficult for us to understand the newer norms of international relations. What's that got to do with an archival structure in the President's office, you'll ask yourself? And I'm going to say in a direct relationship because exactly the idea of archaic and dominant consciousness and the sanctity of national sovereignty seems to inspire our public when it comes to the documents that have been leaked to the public from the Office of the President. Of course, I did not want to challenge the need to introduce order into the State Archives in terms of the protection of general interests, but I wanted to put it on trial and get out of the semi-dark of political demagogy. The moral justification of some attitudes in us, from which we finally come up with questions, what is the general classic, according to HSPs, classical interest, state interest? I'm asking myself, the proposings, of course, our public question. Which actually scandals us in this whole transcript story and... An archival structure? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Does the fact that uncontrollable and anarchical public leaks of documents important to the state community turn us on, or is it only the fact that they have become our own, and also the world public known and unacceptable and unacceptable, and compromising the details of the Homeland War? With this question, I point to one very important question for me. The question of real, long-term general state interests. I don't think anyone, even the creators of this proposal, would be easy to answer the following question. Was it in the national long-term interest to publish and thus to face facts published in these famous transcripts, or would it be in the long-term general interest to hide them and from ourselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25343	Thank you. Dear representative Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. All the countries of this world and Europe and those who have gained their independence by a pink revolution to our grief we have not had a chance to elect our independence to a pink revolution but to Croatian blood, they refer to their history in a different, more dignified, more responsible, more proud than we are. All the responsible and MPs in the Croatian Parliament took an oath, the president of the Croatian state took an oath. We all swore in the Croatian Parliament that we would respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Croatia and we should not harm them even if some insulted them with their heavy statements in the Croatian Parliament which I do not wish to quote. The President, the current president of the Croatian State, also swore that he had to adhere to the Constitution, the law, the Data Protection Act, the Data Protection Act, which contains the designations of state, military and official secrets, which was only a black letter on paper. Today, several principles of responsibility have been expressed here, the handing over of documents are, the injured principles of all the responsibilities that are called and betrayed if they are illegally handed over. The irresponsibility from the Office of the President is strengthened by the following facts, a testimony in the Dan Hague from 16 March to 19 March as a citizen in 1988. Then, gentlemen, after entering the Presidential Court, the president made it possible for a British television station from London to look into an indefinite number of transcripts and audio records and their recording, which is a state secret. His TV feature was broadcast by the Croatian TV station and channel 4. Then, those transcripts and audio records were archived in the main building of the Presidential Courts and entrusted to guard President Mesic as part of his presidential function. It follows that President Mesic made the state secret entrusted to him with the day of taking over the presidency available to the foreign organisation, i.e. the person representing the organisation. President Mesic in the same capacity made available transcripts of President Tudjman's talks with other people who were also marked as a state secret. Today it's been said that they weren't marked with a state secret, but unfortunately these documents came out in the "Nacional" Week, "Feral Tribune," I have here documented in which numbers, so you read them, why repeat them. As the transcripts and audio records that President Mesic gave to foreign and unauthorized persons also refer to the Homeland War, and these persons have used it for the fact, untrue and false display of the Homeland War and President Tudjman, to whom unfortunately, for years now, there has been an ongoing assessment of the Homeland War on the Truth about the Homeland War. Because I'm also interested in whether illegal one night from the President's Office was delivered, one lawyer from the Croatian citizen 1280 documents. The statements were made, the evidence was arranged, the transcripts were sold, they were said to be in the markets, not only in our homeland, but also outside our homeland. But that it didn't happen, so it wasn't transparent when they handed over documents and shocked the statements of the first president of this country, for example. "one underground, and one on earth," you know who it was referring to. We all have to apologize to everyone. In London, the statement of the first man of our country still makes it easier to fight terrorism than fascism. Unfortunately, Brijuni documents that are forgeries, I don't know what's going on in the Croatian state that we don't know how to keep all of what's being kept by the states. Here today, the Great Britain has been mentioned several times. And then he says, "We didn't war with Montenegro," and then demeaning everything that happened by 2000, so I wonder today when the presidents of foreign states are coming to our country and coming, where the crown and flowers are being set up under protocol, if not to Medvedgrad. But the Altar Homeland was created in historical times, so it is not so important because it wants to revitalise the history that the Croatian people led with President Tudjman, Croatian defenders of the bare-handed and bare-footed. The jokes and irresponsibility will put him, not put him in that place by his merit or those places by their merits. And I will end mine, forgive sinners, murderers, forgive everyone, everyone, just never traitors.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25345	Dear Representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25346	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Respecting your request, Mr. President, I will significantly shorten my presentation, but I would still like to make a few comments after I have listened to these 20 presentations of my predecessors. I can only conclude with regret that nothing new has happened in the Croatian Parliament today. Our rhetoric remains the same only new thing that we have now started each month to set up an investigative commission. From all of this, two questions are being raised, i.e. the inevitable question, whether these are our real priorities of the Croatian people and of the Croatian state, because I was deeply convinced that this Parliament should exclusively move within these frameworks and not beyond. It's just that the fact that we're left here in this assembly is talking about how many people think and what they think about this point of the agenda. The second question is where and what state institutions are doing if we have to do all these research ourselves. Where's our police, Attorney General? Here today has even been mentioned that the European Union expects us MPs to deal with it. It's not true, it's one extreme demagogy. The European Union expects us to set up a legal state and that the institutions of the states address these and similar issues. So I would like to urge a consensus, that colleagues and fellow lawyers, that the police, the judiciary, deal with the past, and that we in the Parliament concentrate on the current huge problems we have in our country. To be honest, I think we only need one investigative committee, which is an investigative committee that will identify the reasons why Croatian state policy in the past 10 post-war years is so inefficient in promoting economic growth, inefficient in encouraging investment, production and exports, so inefficient in the employment of young people, so inefficient in education reform, so inefficient in introducing new technologies, in one word so inefficient in raising the standard of living of our citizens. When we set up such a committee, then I'll vote yes. For this commission, I will be highly opposed. I agree with Mr. Cosic, I agree with him that there have been a lot of manipulations about the transcripts, that's correct. There were even when it was mentioned today and there were words about Blaskić, there were many of them before Blaskić. But I repeat, I am deeply convinced that we Parliamentarians must pass laws that will allow Croatia to step forward faster, if something is wrong with the police, lawyers, the judiciary, and bring laws in order to essentially move things in these institutions for the better, so that competent, professional, competent and honest people in those bodies take their responsibility, and we are truly concerned with the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25347	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25348	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll also try to be as brief as possible after your appeal. In fact, it seems quite clear to me from this debate that it is necessary to establish this investigative commission for the reasons, in particular, of the reasons set out in this document that is before us. In particular, I don't see any reason why we don't care to determine the real truth about how this archival material was handled more than we're all aware of the facts as it was already said that the information was leaking, and I would say not that they were leaking, but were flowing in streams through our media. So it really needs to be determined. I agree with my colleague Doric, who said that state institutions should take care of the past first of all, there I fully agree with him, but the fact is that, obviously, because we were able to read in the media that these state institutions didn't work, and that we were invited to see exactly what was going on in the meantime, and that we would simply give one appeal, a signal to all these institutions in which to approach this problem, because obviously the thing came to this extent that we need to find a concrete solution here and that solution is called an investigative commission. I must say that unfortunately, the whole debate today is focused in one wrong direction first and foremost after the exit of Mrs Vesna Pusic. In fact, the very fact that she tried to put this establishment of an investigative committee in the context of the election campaign has actually led to a kind of debate in one wrong direction and has given it the right to actually suspect that the HNS as a party which in the last elections supported its candidate, Mr Mesic, in fact, in this current pre-election period wants to put something under the rug. What would be the reason now, let's wait for the end of the election campaign and then we will set up an investigative commission because everything against President Mesic has been directed. Nowhere in this document is said by President Mesic. It mentions the Office of Presidents, the state bodies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the former Government Office for Co-operation with The Hague, etc. So, by the very fact that someone wants us to prolong it now until the elections are over, it means that someone wants to put something under the rug because how else do we interpret that fact? On the contrary, we're pushing for all things to be done for the cleanup. We want to really determine the truth in which these transcripts are shared because they are obviously shared by hand and hat, obviously out of some interest. Here he even told counterpart Cain that they were dealing so much and so many euros, etc. Maybe he has that knowledge, I don't have it or know who shared it, but obviously that's what needs to be determined. When spoken in public this way, when it is said in the Assembly that a document is given for a thousand marks or 700 marks, when a parliamentary representative says so, it is something to determine. We cannot stay in front of the Croatian public without answering whether it is true or not. And how will we determine this rather than by setting up this investigative committee to participate in all parties. Therefore, there is no concern that this investigative committee can answer these questions. I'd also respond to my colleagues from the SDP. My colleagues say we'd be trying to determine the truth if it wasn't in pre-election time. However, colleagues from the SDP at a time when there was no election campaign and that was in 2002, so they were also not for the establishment of this same commission which would also determine how transcripts were given to the public, etc. Therefore, it is a completely incorrect argument which simply has no justification in their current behaviour because obviously both the SDP and the HDZ and the HSP have its presidential candidate and should be made quite clear today. What's this about? Whether hiding the truth is in the interest of the SDP because of their candidate who will appear in the next election. It is quite clear that giving up support like this to one proposal to set up an investigative committee raises doubts about the real intentions and real reasons that are highlighted by these parties that have their presidential candidates or will have them in a pre-election campaign for the president of the state. So, back to the point of things. It seems to me that it's extremely important that what is really of the state's interest and that it's in the interest to keep it secret. I think it's in everyone's interest. Therefore, it is clear that the Institute of Secrecy must be respected by all those who are obliged to respect it. So the key is to determine really what happened to this archive material in the past period, in which we can determine it. I have already told the investigating committee, but it is also extremely important that what my colleague Cosic said really determine whether these transcripts are possible and counterfeit. It's also possible to determine. Today, We have heard the statements of some who were participants. Here is Mr. Cosic himself said he was a participant in a certain meeting and that this is not mentioned in an alleged transcript that is allegedly a transcript of the same meeting. He even has photos from that meeting where he is also present without mentioning it. So this points all to the fact that it is possible that there was manipulation and this manipulation in one negative sense, in terms of counterfeiting these documents and it should be determined where this happened, how it was possible that this happened and where this place, who the people responsible for this happened. Here, in that sense, I'd like to conclude my argument. There's no reason to keep talking, I think there's a lot of things that's been said. I support the absolute establishment of this investigative commission, as I believe most of it in the Parliament will also do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25349	Thank you. Replica esteemed representative Plasimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25350	So I couldn't agree with a colleague and his thesis who said that if someone was selling documents for 700 or 1,000 euros that that's why an investigative commission should be set up and that an investigative committee should examine it. I, as far as I understand it, is not the meaning of an investigative commission to question the black market of transcripts but if it does exist and we all witness that there is a black market of transcripts but not only of transcripts but of many other documents that have a mark of secrecy then that is why the state has its own institutions from the police, from the state's attorneys and from some others, from secret services that need to react and that need exactly the state and system to protect it from these spells. So, not only do their departments and services and drawers need to leak documents, so maybe some of them are dealing with these documents, but they are being founded and paid to protect us from it. And there is no need to establish an investigative commission in the House for something the police should have done. The investigative committees in the Assembly must not substitute what is the regular work of intelligence agencies, what is a regular job of police and state's attorney. The investigation committees have a different meaning and, in normal developed democracies, the investigative committees establish mostly opposition because the government has in its hands instruments to provide it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25351	Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25352	I don't know if you've been listening to my presentation from the beginning. I already agreed with a similar thesis with Mr. Doric where I made it clear that, of course, the institutions of the state should do their part of the job. However, since they had not done so, it is clear that they were not because a bunch of classified information came public and no one answered or knew how it came public. So all those institutions that you said I thought were supposed to do their part of the job obviously didn't do their part of the job. And now we're in a situation. And as one example, I also cited Mr. Caine as saying that certain information is a dilan for so many and so many marks or euros, etc. Because I said that we must obviously give an answer to why this abuse of this information occurred, to take down the code of secrecy or why this information came to the media at all. We have to give a simple answer to the public and we'll give the best answer if we form this investigative committee and then we'll see what's really going on. We will establish certain facts based on which we will probably encourage some state institutions to act. Here, that's quite clear from what I was about to say and I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't all give each other credibility to state institutions. I believe they will be encouraged by this debate today. But anyway, there's something else I need to fill out. I agree with most of these investigative committees to propose opposition. As you did not accept the proposal of the opposition of the HDZ then two years ago but today we accept Mr Djapic's HSP's proposal for opposition, is it not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25353	And another replica of the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25354	I just wanted to replicate to Mr. Matusic. In fact, in every democratic country that has a developed democratic system such as this, Mr. Matušić would not come to the agenda during the presidential campaign so that 5 hours before the public's cameras of speech and famorine could be held against other candidates and so on. That would not have happened, and Mrs Pusic spoke in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25355	Reply to the replica, respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25356	So I just have to disprove Mr. Doric's election campaign hasn't started yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25357	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on investigative committees on the establishment of an investigative committee must be decided by the House of Parliament at the first session after the President of the Parliament has received the proposal. Dear Representative Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25358	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, here is another topic that should have come to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament much earlier to discuss this. It wasn't waiting for me but the HDZ I saw offered in the last term was not discussed. I stress this because of what I will say later, when this topic went along across Croatia and left some pretty bad clues where many as citizens mocked us, that important documents so come out in public that everyone can actually get an insight. We're coming to say here's finally that theme in Parliament. Few of us as citizens of Croatia and Croats happen transcripts. And that's why he would disagree with the part of the club that the real people here pointed out that this debate was encouraged to defuse the candidates who were in the race for the President of the Republic. On the contrary, transcripts and all these problems have been constant of the Croatian political and social scene since the death of the late president Dr. Francis Tudjman. Take this and check the presses in Croatia and you will see from time to time when this topic came in its largest volume on the agenda, it was after the death of the President of the Republic. Why, because many wanted to deal with it, in such a way and with the policy that was led at that time. Not entering the credibility of the transcripts as those sent by secret channels to The Hague and other centres of world power as well as those published in Croatian and world presses. We must in some way condemn this way of delivering documents, and in this way publishing documents that had a code of secrecy and that are important for the security of the state, for its image. It is likely that all those who have caused the public in this way with the documents were not in the first place the truth about us, but the argument with us. It's a fight between us. I cannot agree with the fact that the people who gave these documents are in such a way that they dosed and made a selection of what was to be published, and how they would be published. Because no heir to President Tudjman's position as President of the Republic of Croatia will be as great as Tudjman by dealing with the transcripts with him. Because he doesn't have a chance I answer to that. However, history will answer that. Whether he was big and how big, every one who thinks to be as big as Tudjman has the opportunity to prove that he is doing good for Croatia and for the citizens of Croatia. And on behalf of the party I am talking about at the Democratic Centre, I am expressing my view that the Democratic Centre has consistently insisted that the government be the one to cooperate with The Hague and with all those who seek this form of communication, when it comes to the Homeland War, when it comes to the policy that was led during President Tudjman. Not only this government but also the government of Ivica Racan and previous previous governments and the fact is that in this war, with the help of the transcripts, irreparable damage has been done to Croatia, both internally and externally. And you just have to ask yourself what the world is going to be like when we call on each other, to think about us whether they will respect us as equal partners in communication. Will they trust us to, say, protect and develop freedoms, human rights, national rights, religious freedoms, and so on? When we do not know how to stop manipulation with the Croatian historical structure, especially the building that is important for the creation of the Croatian state. And so I appeal to all of us to find the measure and the way we're going to get out of this war with transcripts, because it's all further weakening us both from the outside and from the inside. Let's say a man asks what the work will look like, for example, one of our young researchers of the creation of the Croatian state at the time of the Homeland War. Where he will be able to get the right authentic documents, whether the real authentic documents are the ones that came out of the president's office and from other institutions. So they went to the village press, or perhaps such a young Croatian researcher will go to The Hague and look for these documents so that he can write the history of the truth about us. I don't know how much anyone could have watched on the Croatian television when this affair about the transcripts about the British transcripts broke down where the image from the President's Office was shown, where the documents were arranged. That looked embarrassingly ugly. Afterwards, it doesn't seem like a single robbery where the waste dumps what that painting looked like on Croatian television. Apparently, someone wanted to make fun of all of us, possibly the president himself. And in the end, my personal position will support the formation of this committee. But I would ask that this commission not make the mistake that has been made so far. DA during its work during the election campaign of candidates for the President of the Republic, not to go out with any knowledge of all this, that you are the knowledge of the Croatian Parliament's substries after the end of the political campaign. In that way, they'll be more trusted to this commission. It's a beautiful hawla.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25359	Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25360	I thank Mr. President, I will really follow your recommendations and be very brief. The transcript is a document. I think it's the only way to access and approach it. Each document or transcript has its own value, and that value as well as any other is kept and protected. It is precisely because value has not been treated as a matter of value, that I support the establishment of this committee with the aim of establishing all that is to be determined in this respect. And the future protection of documents or value, and that there is no further to their abuse and loss. I only want to take one note of the credibility of the transcripts. And actually shown here a concern about them because many times people have already brought out here... The transcript or document, and when it is original, does not have to be authentic. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] And when it's an original. I personally became convinced of that because as a witness in The Hague, I was a participant in the moment, the moment the prosecutor showed a document that was very much blaming our side, the side of the HVO. It was actually about measures, actually an analysis of the situation in one place. I said, my answer was that this document has a sequel. The prosecutor didn't have it, and the following is actually a proposal for measures that we have done and which we should have done and which we have really done to remove all the shortcomings that have been shown before. That's what the President of the Court asked the prosecutor to file a report, in fact to explain, to explain where he got the document as such. He said he got it from the President's Office, but actually got it in a way that made a copy of only the first pages, the second one was gone. The chairman asked me if you could confirm that this is the case. I said yes. He asked me, and how? I said, I have the original. And it went to the second item of the agenda. So if the document is not complete, it can also be actually for one side harmful and accusing. I would just like to refer more to those accusations, or remarks, that the documents from President Tudjman's office were leaving. I believe that this was not happening and that the president was protecting the president's institution and that he was very serious and I accept Mr Letica's explanation that that transcript he was talking about with Dr Raskovic, that he was actually published with the goal of actually showing the public about the state of affairs at that moment and that he was in a certain way the defence of Croats who were actually left without weapons, and in front of the aggression itself. Therefore, in the event of the publication of the document, it was not uncontrollable and similar. Because I declare it, by keeping it a strategically important move, I think the time has come to really, to correct all injustices or all mistakes, to leak uncontrollable documents is to mutilate or damage to the institution and the reputation of the president, or the institution of the president, and we will all have a chance soon in the elections as citizens to contribute and protect the future of that institution. I hope so, very successfully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25361	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25362	Mr. President, I just have to look back at this part where my colleague brought out documents of course even though they are credible they don't have to be accurate. My colleague, I would also refer to that falsified documents of damage sold to Croatia and to Croatian generals are already much more serious and corrupt to assume that by selecting these same documents damages both Croatia and its citizens, especially our generals accused in The Hague, and I would like to ask the promoter to extend the powers and to these circumstances in the work of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25363	Replication response. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25364	Well, actually, I agree. However, I have presented to you a specific event in which I was a participant to show you how and with the original document can be manipulated. So someone singled out a piece of the document that he was responding to, which was in the service of the indictment, and left out the second part of the document that was completely in favor of the one he was actually used against. That's all I was talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25365	Thank you, distinguished representative, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I have also made my modest contribution to the creation of the Republic of Croatia, and I have been a participant since the beginning, I also wish to participate in this debate, but a little more extensively. So, with all my heart, I support the establishment of this investigation committee, but not because it's an HSP proposal. I would support the establishment of that commission if any other party had proposed it, because it is time to put an end to dealing with transcripts once and for all. But I would extend it to both the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defense, because we know that information was leaked from there. We don't have one solid law that would condemn all those who trade any state secret, whether for money or any other personal reason. We know when the war began, which was imposed on us, was not at the will of those who lived in Croatia and Croatia. Suddenly, they stopped a good source of profit, and the nation was never interested. Since then, not only have transcripts been leaking outside, but oral attacks and criticisms at the expense of Croatia. It should be condemned, even when a politician acting out of duty stops to spit on Croatia and other officials. I guess that politician is believed to be above the nation and better than all of us. It's like when a husband or wife in the neighborhood panics each other that they're unemployed, thieves, irresponsible, etc. And that their children are lowlifes, drug addicts, and then that person wonders why they don't appreciate him in society. Well, that's because he's just like his family. Because if he was better, he wouldn't live with them or gossip about them next door. With this, I would like to say that every politician who has a problem with Croatia should be able to address the problem in Croatia. Any action or talk of Croatia outside, I think is a betrayal of the Croatian people and such politicians should not act more public duty, because they have betrayed that state to which they should be faithful and loyal. Croatia would never have been in this situation if there had been no diversifying, gossiping and attacking Croatia, but it is not for the true belief that something illegal has been committed in Croatia but for personal benefit and perforation. In America and Canada for civil servants, police, military, politicians and others there is a so-called out office or oath office, where before duty must be read and signed those oaths and then know exactly what information can go public and which not, and also the penalty for breaking the oath is known. In my personal opinion or public worker who panics Croatia outside, and Croatia loses its reputation in the world, does not deserve to act on its duty, because colleagues and colleagues, if it is not Croatia and Croatian interests above all else, then we do not need to act on any public duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25367	Thank you. And respected representative Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Every country, a serious country in the world has two sanctities. It's a state and national interest. Does our Croatia have its own national and national interest? And what is the Croatian national and state interest? A man today when he listens in this assembly, he'd have the impression that someone on the side would come that it's two completely hostile peoples who are conflicted and want to exterminate each other, and it's only about different political views in one radical way. My colleagues and colleagues, we Croats finally understand that history cannot change. We cannot make our national history better or worse than it is. No matter what anyone thinks. For 45 years, the communists had history and democracy on the knife. However, God wanted their knife and their truth to come down to the historical dump, so some truth came out. Unfortunately, not yet, because these communist actors are always where they are. Now, look here, you have to make it very clear and loud. The intelligence underground in Croatia lasted until 2000, especially since the beginning of 2000 until today. Just what's important here? It is important that the actors of the intelligence underground are former communist intelligence, rescuers and Kosovoers. Getting ready for this debate, so when I watched some, they were party members. You see colleagues and colleagues today our Croatia is growing apart and the Croatian national corruption is growing so much that it is not normal. Look today in the Croatian public, you have the impression that Croatia was an aggressor not only in its neighbourhood but almost across Europe. I don't want to question Croatian crimes with anything. According to some scientific and professional assessments, and our side in the Homeland Liberation War, it was between 3 and 4% of the crime, but today we are talking about Laura, Medačka Djep, Gospić as if at least the Croats left Hiroshima and Nagasaki behind, and no one is talking about 15 thousand killed Croats, about 50 thousand who were wounded, no one is talking about the murdered and burned Vukovar, Vinkovci, Osijek, Celijek, Škabrnji, Zadar, Sibenik and the world, not the Croatian but the world's pearl, our Dubrovnik. And it's not an accident, because the world's sponsors here always have their executors and then they'll write about it. These days they've got some movies, too. etc. Because I understand a little bit about it, so it's moral and professional prostitution when you're looking at some so-called. documentary films about how crimes happened here. Have you ever heard of any of the last four years, while the party-run rural coalition was at the head of Croatia, from any actor saying anything about a thousand murdered Croats in the UNPA zones? I'd like someone to show me an article, a television show or if someone here said it in the Croatian National Assembly. Now speaking of this documentation that has come and which of Croatia wants to make Croatia a criminal and that it was created on crime. I don't want to defend a crime. My colleagues and colleagues, it's a crime when an innocent man gets hurt, but it's 90 and 91 and 92. Croatia was killed, Croatia was burned, they wanted to delete Croatia from the face of the country. Thank God that didn't work. We have a topic here today, so I'll read what the agenda point is, and it reads like this: a proposal to set up an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with dealing with registration and archive construction (transscription) from the Office of Presidents. No president is mentioned by name anywhere, and we see these on my right all the time going to defend President Mesic. I've known President Mesic too long today when he's a citizen, but I know him even while he was a citizen, even in other times, but I don't want to talk about it. So who is he when he goes in, I respect the institution, I respect that he is there now, but who is in the pre-election campaign except for the equal among the equations that go to the political market I can compete in that market and I can win and if he wins they need to take off their hat because no matter who he was there, I personally disagree with the President of the Republic, but I respect him because it is a Croatian state and national institution, and I am state and national interest above all. You see our president and that would be very interesting for the Croatian public, he testified in the period from 16 March to 19 March 1998 in the case of Blaskic. Based on that testimony, I'm saying that and his testimony, which I said this morning, you see a lawyer know how irony can be used to laugh. This testimony was brought to Zagreb by General Blaskic's lawyer, Mr. Anto Nobilo, and it circled, part of it was published by some media. I advocate that it all goes out so that we can finally see what the citizen Mesic was saying at the time, and what the president of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, thinks about it today. For that I am, to bring all of this out to the cleaners and all of it until 2000 and here, because the intelligence underground is a Croatian AIDS, it is a Croatian cancer wound. You see our president is in his office, so please nice colleagues and colleagues, if there are such examples in the history of civilization, in order to demonize his predecessor who unfortunately created him politically, created him, he introduced foreign TV homes to go around and take what they need. Do you have such examples anywhere in the history of civilization? Well, that's the least said under any criticism. You see these transcripts that are in The Hague today, transcripts from July 1995, on which Croatia is being tried, because Croatia should be tried because Croatia is an unwanted child of the West, but God wanted Croatia to be born and we who love it are proud and I think there should be no doubt there, because it is our common house. The people without the state are nothing. If anyone in history felt it, we Croats felt it in 900 years because we weren't protected, we always had so-called. Protectors. But when we have a country, it's something else entirely. And you see based on this 95th-year transcript, which is note bene and falsified, today is being tried by Croatia. Who handed it over, and undoubtedly that key document went to The Hague after 2000. And let me say something else. It has been said here several times today that this commission, that it, injures President Mesic and that it should not now be taken but that it should be delayed for some time after the election. So why? I used to say that elections were a political market, so we need to know who's going to that political market. We're public figures as agents. The Croatian public must know about our curricula, must know who we are and what we are because on this basis we will be given a mandate and on this basis we will manage this country for five years and that is why I am pushing for it to go out. And why, one more thing, I tried to say this morning, so I was disabled, and now I'm going to say, so let's hear the speech parabola well. It says there's an election campaign going on. So in every normal parliament, a pre-election campaign is being led from the moment parliament is ensnared until the moment it closes, because Parliament is second than conditionally said one modern state of hide park with the rules of the game. So we read in the newspaper today and last night in all the TV houses that our classmate Zeljka Antunovic said HDZ buys independent representatives. It's beneath every criticism. The decision was taken on 13 January of this year, confirmed on 24 March of this year, and precisely on the list of its SDP party there were six independent MPs, now it is four because the two entered the party, did not say that her party was also receiving money for independent representatives, but in public in one tried communist way she took the right to rock people and, of course, our media as they are, you saw what we had in the media today. That's why I'm saying every truth no matter how it is, comes out, no matter who it's about, the ones before or these now. I will support this investigation committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25369	Does the Proposer want a representative? Dear Representative Anto Djapic. On behalf of the club? Mr. Vujic, please welcome on behalf of the club for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25370	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to use these five minutes even though we systematically exposed the position of the SDP on this subject and on the methodology of how to really protect the data, to sort of respond to some discussions and some opinions that have been heard, which I don't think will help solve this matter. First, it should be said that the discussion we are having in the ambience when, therefore, the first division of documents was already carried out in December in three segments. One remained with the presidency, that is, the president, one of the successors and the other in HDZ. Since then, there has been only one method to finally introduce order in what are the apocryphals, and what are the documents, which is to hand it over to the State Archives. What's not in the State Archives becomes a post-acryptic, not a document. And it hasn't been solved since. And now, and right now because it's still the only real method to determine what's true and what's not true. Because in the archive it can be studied, based, classified, criticised by methods that are both scientific and professional, etc., and obtained to thus state the seals of credibility or authenticity. Instead, however, he wants to deal with it with the Committee. He would like to answer to Mr Djapic, who tied the commission's work to a particular case, that something must be done urgently. So is it thought that trust will be given to one commission or will be sought again by that kind of professional expertise, which can only be given by an appropriate service, therefore, not by a commission but by an appropriate archival service that can determine whether or not something is or is not credible, as we have heard, that, therefore, with unworthy writings, it is still working. So, the way is, it's not a commission trip, but the way is to train the archives to get the whole building there. But when it's said that we didn't do it then or then, there's two things chasing each other. It's about like objecting to the Minister of Tourism because it's not nice and sunny weather, but it's raining or the Minister of Interior that has thieves. The government made decisions and, of course, those decisions were broken. And that's why it's the subject of the attorney's office, and yet it's not the subject of the commission, it's the subject of the State's attorney's office to determine who's been disposing the material in what way. But well, we can also talk about the commission, but this commission can only function on the basis of those services again, so to speak, professional ones that can provide archives, and the only methodological and institutional protection is the archive again. And that's why I'm going back to the point a little bit, and that's that and unfortunately this debate has shown in the way it's being led that it's less than interest to stop apocryphals than to use them in, to put it, politically... And that I think, again as a slave here, they kind of appear and that they are rediscovering what should be kept secret and that it can't tell again what's true and what's not true. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that sense, therefore, I wanted to repeat some points and hope and respond to some, perhaps, good intentions, but which do not lead to these results that they desire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25371	Thank you very much. A fellow Radosh, same five minutes on behalf of the Club of Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25372	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like a few notes, since the debate has shown unfortunately that there is always a representative who will turn it into a campaign. As much as the majority attitude might be that it might not be done, there were here, therefore, those steps that were in the function of the campaign. This, of course, says that the work of the commission, again perhaps not of the majority, but of one part of the campaign, therefore, it is certainly a reason that the Assembly does not involve it. And of course, it's a confirmation of that attitude that we suspect will be so, but therefore this brief debate, especially the work of the commission would show it. But he would like to say something about the work of the former government in that segment, even if it wasn't the subject of this debate, but the issue of leaking information was a broader issue, so there was talk that the entire former government, so I don't know, all the ministers were dealing with information. I must, therefore, refuse such an accusation without the rest. When such a bad security culture was already established, when there were private archives, when part of the documents were already where they were not meant to be, then no government can save anything anymore. Often in the former government, to be also clear about it, we had the impression that we were actually sought only by what already exists there so that through the official delivery of state documents, which is, of course, this present Croatian government, only actually looking for cover for free and publicly available documents that are already owned. What, in that case, can any government do? This system was such, more or less broken before 2000, and does it make sense to keep some documents? The question is whether and who could make such a decision since it is the general position to co-operate with The Hague tribunal to enter into some problematic relations, and the documents that make you feel that you are already in The Hague. So we should go through the private archives of original and photocopied documents that former officials from all possible levels, of course not all, and there are honorable exceptions, have in their safes, their houses, basements, etc. To what extent can this be checked today? Who could conduct such an investigation without being charged with witch hunting again, etc.? When we talk about what the former government did, then we should mention one very important thing, which is that all documents that were in the HIS are in the famous basement of the HIS which were not available to all Croatian defenders who were already in The Hague, that all these documents were delivered to the State Archives. In 2000. And one more thing, from the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, for the sake of truth, I say it, for the sake of information to the public, all documents of the HVO who were in a terribly messy state in Lora were transported to Zagreb, listed and submitted to the National Archives. It was done by the former government, quite the opposite of what was being spoken here, so the former government acted and it is the right way to deal with documents because it is the question of the power of the heirs of some duty that they take the marks off their predecessors' documents. This is questionable and is indeed the best model proposed by fellow Vujic, that when one of the mandates of one government in one segment is completed, of course where the documents are no longer used, especially the Office of the President, the documents are automatically stamped and delivered to the State Archives, and this is exactly the methodology that the former government applied to all documents of the Croatian Defence Council that were found on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25373	Thank you very much. Please, on behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative, Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25374	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank, on behalf of the promoters, everyone who participated in the debate, both those who supported the initiative on the formation of this Research Commission and those who were full of criticism, perhaps because of the timing or some other reasons, were critically focused in the debate, showed also in their discussions that those who were priors for, and those who were skeptical of the need to form such a committee. It should be open to the end that the story about the transcript or the trade, or I don't know what I'd call it, is difficult to choose the right word here, related to the data of the highest state secrecy, related to the security of national and other matters, so that I don't have to be pathetic one of the things in which for years in Croatia was worth it. It's a mess that's always been paid by people who are least responsible, and here, above all, I mean in this case, Croatian generals who for some years, and for some months have been in The Hague, somewhere in the asylum are waiting for the solution of their case. There was also talk here about archaic consciousness, sovereignty, there was also talk about why it was not before, there was talk that there were more important things in Croatia than transcripts, etc. We hold that every topic that enters the Croatian Assembly is of great importance to someone, but I hold that the vast majority of parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament are above all the most important not only the truth about the Homeland War, but that this relationship with the Homeland War is also in favour of those who, even before the Hague, defend the truth about what happened in the early 1990s. In fact, were there questions here what could be achieved with a debate like this? Well, I don't know if there's any greater reason than to open this topic than to repeat one truth that's so-called. The Brijuni transcript was found in The Hague several years ago, that no one had submitted those transcripts legally, it was classified as a state secret, only with the decision of the Croatian government since 20 October this year that they were declassified, until at the same time used by the international criminal court in the context of the first defence of Slobodan Milosevic during the counter-examination of Ambassadors Galbraight and General Agotic during 2003. And until then, our Croatian government did not have me, and until it was removed from them the mark of secrecy. So this someone who delivered unauthorized classified state secrets committed a criminal act of espionage if not high treason. While those who have been falsely charged with the basis of falsified documents and who spend their goal some three years as Gotovina, some 8 months as Markac and Cermak must be determined and it is immediately the highest bodies of Croatia that this Committee of Parliament so we open questions because others do not open them. Is the transcript of 31? 7th true or falsified. Is it falsified with the intention of falsely accusing individuals before the International Criminal Court, who falsified the document and, as such, tampered with the Hague Court of Justice, anyone has delivered it to The Hague. This is true, we cannot run away from it, because when it comes to cooperation with the Hague Court, it is known that under the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with the Hague Court, Article 3 of the Court of Justice, it is determined that the Government of Croatia is the one who cooperates with the International Criminal Court and, if any other Croatian body is directly cooperating with the International Criminal Court, it is required to inform the Government of the actions taken by Article 5 within 3 days. Constitutional law. So on August 12th, the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave its letter, which made it clear that it had never received transcripts from 17 and 31. Seven. In 95, it was never forwarded to the International Criminal Court, and this is more than clear evidence that this should be discussed in the Croatian Parliament. Why it is important to establish the authenticity of these transcripts, any question of what is to be done because that transcript of July 31st is the basis of the charge of so-called. The criminal enterprise of the Republic of Croatia with the aim of ethnic Serb persecution, with the operation of the "Storm" of the formed areas, yet a fundamental charge for indicted generals Gotovina, Markac and Cermak. In our opinion, in order to prove that the indictment based on a forged document, we are convinced that this would have some shifts in the position of The Hague indictees. Therefore, there were speeches here just before that, in some cases, that he had to do his job State Attorney's Office, that the police had to do but did not do his job, but which remains for us who want to do something not just passive observers of events around the Homeland War, about the truth about the Homeland War, about Croatian generals, but to try to influence the Croatian Parliament, which is precisely the one who verticalized Croatian statehood not to speak to the archaic dictionaries now as some have used these terminal archaic sovereignty. So let it be archaic sovereignty, if someone means that the defense of the Homeland War is archaic or concept of how to defend it, archaism, we are prepared to submit such qualifications, we who have signed this proposal for this investigation committee. But the fact is, something stinks in our country. We are not in writing this proposal, my colleague Kovacevic and I literally kept every word, so that no matter the campaign announced by the president, we started writing it at the 9th month, so that no one would object to any person being attacked. It's not our idea to charge President Mesic, it's not our idea. We literally made sure that it didn't happen, because first of all, we want to help this Committee and not take it away from someone. There is no intention of division in Croatian society, there can be no division in Croatian society of desire for truth, about what happens to documents that have any effect on events in The Hague. It is said here by one colleague whether it is actually better for Croatia not to know what exists in these documents or perhaps it is better to face it so that everything is published. I can't be an arbiter here, but anyone else who's better, which is worse, we only have the practice of other countries of the world that behave in a certain way when it comes to important, secret documents, why some document bears the "Stretinly Classified", "Highest State Secret", "State Secret" it certainly has its reasons, therefore, not entering into the content at all is the fact that it has to introduce order into that matter. It won't do us any good if we go to this committee by outvote, most MPs only if it's not a huge majority. It is then a sign that this commission cannot achieve its purpose. So, so far, the committees have not passed in the Croatian Parliament or passed unanimously, perhaps there and there someone was held back or against, but as far as I know, I was a participant and a contemporary of all the foundations of the investigative committees so far I don't know, from the grain affair to the Evening List, the armed territorial defense to Victor Lenca, I don't know what else, so in all these committees were decisions unanimous in the Croatian Parliament, or almost unanimous because no one wanted to point out no one to determine the truth about the serious things that are really of public interest. We believe that this issue is of paramount interest to be resolved. Maybe this committee won't be able to solve it all. Like those commissions I just cited, they're not and I don't know if this thing about Victor Lance is going to solve the depth of the problem that it's dealing with. But that doesn't mean we have the right to remain silent, doesn't mean we have the right not to at least try to do something. I've been talking here about some deadlines and some dates, maybe it doesn't work, but the fact is that the 23rd Security Council Resolution is being adopted on the final strategy of leaving The Hague, from The Hague, or the de facto then the prosecution ends with its work, lifting, de facto it will still last until 31.12. but then it practically concludes a lot of things. And no matter what messages we send from Croatia. We can't influence maybe a lot, maybe we can. Why not try everything we can to do to help those who have voluntarily surrendered to The Hague court convinced of the support of the Croatian state, convinced of the support of the Croatian Parliament, convinced because they know that we, too, all of us believe that they are innocent, that they will prove their innocence in The Hague court. So let's help. This is a fundamental point, so it's not just, so what's concrete is not only about the totality of all the documents but we're talking about one specific example, so we're proposing a decision and we're proposing to determine whether it was possible to counterfeit, forge these transcripts, these documents. Looks like this transcript was falsified. I repeat to him as a parrot, because he is too important, so it is a relationship to "Storm", according to the Homeland War, in an attempt to distort Croatia's newer history and the way the Croatian state is created. And it's above every presidential campaign. Ante Gotovina's fate is above, above the fate of who will be president of the Croatian state. One of them will be presidents, they will be coming, but through the situation Ante Gotovina is being led, political and struggled and legal battle for a relationship to the Homeland War, which is much more important who will sit on Pantovac for four or five years. So it's our concept and we can't always pick a term, timing when it's good to do something. How many times in the Croatian Parliament did some political party not fit some terms, some actions, some laws, some decisions, etc. But when, and this should be a matter that the consensus should adopt, consensus must be made to establish certain elements. I appeal to all MPs by rejecting us from the Croatian Party of Rights Club in general and the idea that this is happening because of the presidential campaign. We don't have it, we didn't even have it in mind. Our intention was as soon as we got the information that the transcript that accused Gotovina, Cermak and Markac that he, that he was in the hands of Slobodan Milosevic, had been used as such, had not been used by the lawyers Gotovina, Markac and Cermak, and that it turns out that he also had suspicion in his authenticity, it was a drop that spilled the glass and that asked for any kind of action to end such a practice that we each discuss with transcripts, something there, I don't know, says he shouldn't, should do his job, these should do his job, they, but nobody does. The state's attorney's office has received criminal charges for unknown perpetrators related to the Brijuni transcripts to determine whether it's a forger. He hasn't done anything yet. And here he received the support of the Croatian Parliament to continue his work almost unanimously. What's that? It means that we as a Parliament are practically covering and not working for the state institutions, I don't think I like to treat it like meddling in the jurisdiction or I don't know what it's all about, but let him listen to what we're saying, let him take on some of the activities, so we won't have to do it. Yeah... doing his job and responding in due time, responding to the transcrypt story in a timely manner, and until it was announced that the possible forgeries might have been able to do so by now and perhaps this solution that would have been made would have had some effect. [[You don't understand.]] Maybe not what we expect, but maybe, romantically, we're hoping it might help Gotovina or the others, but maybe it would, maybe we're wrong. Maybe because the indictment was once changed against Gotovina, and he wasn't in The Hague, and it was radically changed even for him. Can't it be expected that the new additional arguments would strengthen this situation so that maybe it's going away, maybe I'm a dreamer, but maybe there's more to the situation in that case. It's a battle, it's a match, we've got to do our best without breaking cooperation with the Hague Court at the same time, which is simply a prerequisite, we can't work with The Hague at all. And it doesn't mean that fighting for the truth is something that's the opposite. And so the structure of this commission, in my opinion, is one step forward, and finally, let those who have been dealing, trading and doing it sleep restlessly. I'm not interested in names at all. By the age of 90, whoever traded with Croatia in any way, with Croatian interests, with Croatian people, should respond. There's no untouchable. He can't be untouchable. And about the end, about the campaign, you know everything, the presidential campaign. It's all a campaign that's been said by a good colleague of the Lonchars. You, when you are in Parliament, every vote in Parliament, every initiative and opposition and positional one is essentially an election campaign that lasts four years to some new elections. It's hard to always determine the timing. We started with this when we first discovered to make information that they were around these transcripts, not to repeat the whole story. Therefore, some of the other situations are also in the service of an election campaign, I think here he said one colleague Kovacevic and the Zuzul affair is also for the purpose of a pre-election campaign to a good extent. Well, that's it, that's it. That's it. It is a political market, it is a game, but we must not because of the truth and because of the need for responsibility of the Croatian Parliament to run away from it. I believe that this move that we are doing today does not in any way violate the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, I think it is exactly the other way around, that it sets it in a clear position in which it takes its position on some issues and initiates and practically by its work, also drives the state institutions that have to do this to do their job. This is where it was mentioned from the archives, the police, I don't know, the state's attorney's office, let them do their job. We don't have to do their job, if they don't, we as a political body have to act legislatively on these things. God forbid the attorney's office hash out, hastens and has something to do with this case. Step by step, little something small can do something. We've got to go with the offensive. We also talked about that Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, which took years to fight for it. If we had it five years ago, it would have been easier today in all these situations. And that's why this Committee doesn't have any, it doesn't go ad hominen, it goes as a single phenomenon that many have agreed here and from former Minister Rados and former Minister Antunovic, who stressed, which is especially the one that stressed that the almost maimed hard archive is related to these documents. Well, that's what someone has to answer, so we can't "dogs bark caravans pass" when it comes to these things. So I appeal, let's all support this together. I propose Mr. President, since our contacts and consultations have not yet come up with a name and some have even announced that they would not support or participate in the vote until next Friday and until we try to agree to bring it as much consensus as possible, because if there were no representatives of the strongest opposition party in the Committee, he would not have had the effect that otherwise the Committee must have. That's no reason, I mean it is, I don't see why it would be delayed and why we wouldn't do it. He who is convinced that he has done nothing dishonest, who is convinced that he has done no harm to Croatia, he must be proud, everyone that this commission is going and that it is doing his job, everyone must be proud. I, I, in the place of anyone, don't know why anyone in this country would be acting most of the functions, who has the responsibility of protecting the Constitution of the Croatian State, protecting the security of the national, why would someone be opposed to examining the truth about this if everything was in accordance with the law, if everything was clean, if it worked fairly. Therefore, I ask, not because, which would be good for this initiative, but because it is an interest and people who expect the Croatian Parliament to do something for them, and they have done a lot for Croatia so far. Not only did they create it with their military knowledge with a rifle in their hand, but they also did with their suffering and the suffering they bear in The Hague or they will bear it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25375	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. It's a stop until 3:00 p.m. when we vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we had the vote last time on Friday, three four points. This is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the lease of business space. Proposal for a Law on the Protection and Rescue and Proposal for a Law amending the supplementation of the law on freshwater fisheries. At the request of the applicant, the Government shall, in accordance with Article 167(3). Rules of Procedure. When the Proposer asks for and due to the amendments submitted, the postponement of g of flattery and discussion of the submitted amendments shall be postponed. The government has yet to agree on these proposed amendments regarding these three laws. So we postpone the debate on amendments and voting for one of the next sessions. In addition, we also had a proposal for a decision to establish an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the handling of both the registration and archive materials. The transcripts from the Office of the President of the Republic where the proposer is the Club of Representatives of the HSP. I ask the honourable representative, Anto Djapic, to state his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25377	I can do it on behalf of the club that I don't have to on behalf of the promoter that I don't have to ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25378	Ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25379	Please pause because of the interruption only so I can express my views. 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25380	Thank you very much. It's at least 10 minutes. I'll give you 15 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25381	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25382	HDA counseling club. I'm asking you to go to the club right now. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I'd like Mr. Antu Djapic's esteemed representative to take his word on behalf of the HSP club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25384	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Last Friday, as is known, I asked on behalf of the promoter for a postponement of the vote on the grounds that during the debate, some of the clubs doubted that the possible current organisation and vote on the basis of the commission could be used in the election campaign for the presidential elections. I asked for a postponement of the vote in order to try to agree on the views within these week and possibly to show myself on the amendments that the SDP Club has made to us as proposing a decision on the basis of this commission. In that week, I held several talks with the SDP, HSS and HDZ presidents on the one hand, where the situation has been crystallised that the SDP and HSS are ready to support the establishment of a commission if the decision to form a final autumn session is postponed and that, in addition to some amendments that would extend the commission's work to the entire period of the President's Office of the Republic. On the other hand, the HDZ also asked for its political reasons for its own decision to vote on the formation of this committee, and this made it somewhat easier for us as legislators because we are primarily interested in forming this commission, because I stress once again, it was not our intention to use this commission in any context for pre-election purposes, although today everything can be considered as being a pre-election campaign. However, precisely for the purpose of taking advantage of this opportunity, namely one agreed delay of both the SDP and the HSS on one hand, which are therefore ready to support the formation of the commission but not before the end of the meeting of this Assembly, and since the HDZ has also requested that I, Mr President, propose that Article 167(4) be applied and that the vote be postponed until the end of this session.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25385	Thank you very much, Mr. Dwarf. Just as you have stated, the President has no other or president than when he who is the Proposer when he asks that the vote on amendments be postponed if requested by the Proposer, it is my duty only to do so. Therefore, the vote on the decision to elect and appoint the committee concerned is postponed. ... There's no correcting Mr. Caine's misstatement. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] We still have a proposal to set up an investigative fact-finding committee to deal with registration and archive materials and transcripts from the Office of the President. The debate is closed You remember that in the last vote I said that I had information that the State's Attorney's Office launched appropriate procedures that would affect the establishment of this investigation committee. On January 25th of this year, I received a letter from my chief state attorney telling me that the County Court in Zagreb has filed a criminal complaint with contributions against unknown persons. The Commission therefore considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Today, I was informed by the attorney general that it is an emergency investigation request. Asked by an investigative judge of the County Court in Zagreb that an investigative judge of the County Court in Zagreb has scheduled a hearing for the 15th and 16th February hearing of the proposed witnesses. The law on investigating committees states that if a judicial procedure is initiated, it determines the fate of the proposal for the establishment of an investigative commission. Or if it was founded as his further destiny. Here, part of the question round concerns a proposal to set up an investigative commission. One part, what is now the subject of the investigations. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, on behalf of the promoter of HSP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25387	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, you said correctly in our proposal to set up this investigation committee there are several issues. Only one question is they've given counterfeit transcripts to the Brijuni since July 31st, 95th. Therefore, there is no need to stand, to vote. And if the procedure is established, this issue will not mean an investigative commission, but there are many other issues that need to be addressed by the investigating committee. So that's just one question and there's a whole series of questions about how and how we've been treated, we know the degree of secrecy, the state secret military secret, how uninvited they could come into possession, how it could be published to the media and everything else. So that's just one question. Therefore, if that is the case, a charge shall be brought against unknown persons, if found in that section. That question will not be investigated and cannot be investigated by the commission. But the other one can. So that's not the basis for a postponement of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-11-11-0.u25388	Thank you. I would forward these memos and notifications to the Attorney General to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to give an opinion on whether and in part the launch of these judicial investigations is affecting the whole or part of the proposal for an initiative to set up an investigative committee. So let the Committee meet and we will hold a debate and vote on the basis of his opinions. I know, but that's what we would vote on next time the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system brings its opinion. In view of today's final debate on the work of the Office for State Audit, consultations with both the Government and the Fund should be carried out in accordance with the proposal for clubs of part of the clubs of representatives and proposals for conclusions. And among clubs it is also requested by three clubs, especially SDP, HSS and HNS. So after these consultations, we will vote on this one of the next votes. I'm interrupting the session. Continuing with those agenda points according to the consolidated agenda. Statistics and so on Wednesday at 9.30 p.m. Proposal for the establishment of an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the handling of registration and archive materials, transcripts from the Office of the President. The debate is closed. We will vote on the proposal to set up an investigative committee as a previous issue. I am voting on a proposal to set up an investigative committee. The decision requires a majority of the votes of all MPs. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on 77 votes. So I am voting on the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find the proposal has received 13, 10 abstentions and 77 against. So he wasn't accepted.
