ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3066	Dear Mr. Shakespeare, colleagues and fellow MPs, the HSPa Club has been considering in a broader context the events surrounding the appointment of a history to prevent conflicts of interest. And there are three proposals and a general atmosphere that have been created in Croatia for the last days and weeks about the possibility of legal regulation of conflict of interest. The situation and its tendency to withdraw from the parliamentary processor is its own legal proposal. Because he is rightly the president of the Croatian People's Party, Vesna Pusic, who claims publicly yesterday that the commission will prove that Radimir Cacic was not in conflict of interest. Namely, in all three marriage proposals, a law has been drawn up that has in its final conjecture and in the sense that it legalises the possibility of conflicting the most difficult forms of conflict between the interests of state officials and politicians and the private interests of these same people. And in that sense I will say that theoretically speaking there are only eight types of conflicts of interest, the first and most difficult form of conflict interest is what is called only business. So this is the situation where state officials make deals with their own companies, and in all three current legislative proposals this institute or this most difficult form of conflict of interest is wrongly regulated and it must be aware that this awareness must be developed among the MPs in this House, and still among Croatian citizens. Namely, this is now settled under the sub-legislative law so that the state official can very easily and elegantly solve this problem that own companies owned by over 20% are related to new proposals and the parliamentary majority of HSP's management rights club to transfer to some legal firm to someone further related and he can normally make deals with such companies. It's forbidden everywhere in the world. This should therefore be absolutely regulated in a different way. Another institute is the use of benefits, these are different types of benefits and privileges that can be achieved on the basis of their own position. In Croatia we must develop awareness that small savings are very important savings. It's also an old political elite and a new political elite when it comes it does less of the same thing. Share cell phones, buy new cars and allow, for example, unlimited use of private phone calls from state institutions. In developed countries, this is handled in a very simple way for a government official to print the phone whether it is the president of the State Minister or Assistant Minister, or for the Secretary of State to round up private tephonic bills from his own pocket and what was in the context of the use of public office will be paid by the state of course. There is a need to develop awareness of huge savings opportunities in this area. The third form is the sale of influence and this influence and extraction benefits from selling that influence. I make use of different types of state property for private purposes from free use of gasoline and oil to various other forms of use of state property. Then using classified information, additional employment or fusing about it I will say something about the current regulation. In this House and in the Croatian public administration, the most affected would be intellectuals, scientists, teachers, writers and poets. They are the only ones who are allowed unlimited work, for example literary research science, if you have a writer in the sabor or in some ministry, he will not be able to buy him 5 books from the Ministry of Culture because he will find himself in a difficult conflict of interest. You will have an absurd situation that I have preventively solved if you have any intention to write a column and editorship writes to you as is the case with the distinguished parliamentary representative Dr. Tonci Tadic, the Parliament of the Year. And for that he gets 350 kn, it will be treated as a peril as a great conflict of interest. On the other hand, a man can win as a civil servant, for example, a man can coach the handball team of our genius Lino Cervar he will not have such problems. So people on the other hand don't realize what an outrageous genius he's accomplished for Croatian sport and Croatian people by winning the World Cup. So there are a lot of these situations that need to be regulated. Then later employment and business personal respect and especially for the club of HSP representatives, the most difficult form of preventing conflicts of interest is what is called State capture. And it's theoretically called a state capter. So that's the situation where a civil servant starts treating a state of some sort of concubine. Or the milking cows. And in that sense, there are several types of capture of the state. The first is the sale of parliamentary votes for laws that serve the private interests of a company. So if they lobby some banks to pass some law that will favour that particular bank or foreign banks in Croatia, it is a very dangerous conflict of interest which also threatens national interests. It then sells presidential regulations and provisions that serve the company's private interests. The focus of funds, central funds and banks. The sale of court decisions in criminal disputes, the sale of court decisions in commercial disputes and illegal contributions paid to political parties and election campaigns. And in this regard, we think that simply in new circumstances, using a favourable climate and the development of awareness among Croatian voters, that conflict of interest is a conflict of interest, that capture of the state and that corruption is a serious social problem for the new legislative proposal to be made on the basis of these three initiatives that would regulate this topic in favour of the common good and in favour of the sound voice of all people involved in public affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3067	Thank you. I'd like Secretary of State Anton Palaric to explain the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3068	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government has been considering the Law on preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties, not satisfied with some of its decisions, and has therefore proposed to review certain provisions in order to regulate this law, raise it to a higher level, and possibly achieve a national consensus on certain key provisions. The government proposes its proposal to extend the circle of officials who are not state officials, but who are engaged in public affairs and to whom this law applies would be joined by mayors and mayors of the City of Zagreb and his deputys, mayors and municipal chiefs and municipal council presidents in small municipalities acting on executive duties at the level of local self-government. The key provision of this law is the Government's intention that anyone who has shares in companies and shares must be transferred to another person. We cannot accept that someone is at the same time engaged in public duty and at the same time exercised his ownership rights and thus managed by companies, and we insist on amending Article 11, paragraph 3, which speaks about the conclusion of transactions with the state or units of local self-government or companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or the unit of local self-government. We would like to report on such affairs the commission this House has chosen regardless of the amount of the share that is held by one who makes deals if it is property owned by a state official. We want to raise and raise the level of responsibility in fulfilling the property of a state official, we suggest that penalties that are now symbolic in the minimum amount of a thousand kuna be raised to a minimum of three thousand kuna to five thousand kuna. We believe that meeting property cards is already becoming one standard, that people report everything they have, but in case there is a lack of capacity we suggest that this be sanctioned seriously or significantly more seriously than this law provides. In the rest of the law, the government is proposing new deadlines for the adoption of sublaws. We are intensively working on a regulation that will prescribe the recording, storage of gifts the state official receives. This is a very sensitive issue because it is often about the gifts brought by representatives of foreign states, so we will talk about this regulation, we need a little time to make it. The past government has failed to make it, we are working intensively on it and we are asking that we be set a deadline. However, the government does not want this law to be debated thoroughly, so it does not send it into an emergency procedure but into a regular procedure. We want to listen carefully to the opinions of the MPs, and to the greatest extent possible, we will install them in the final draft of the law if these opinions are to be traced to the prevention of conflicts of public and private interest. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3069	Thank you. We have a proposed third law. On behalf of HNS, PGS, LIBRE and IDS representatives, respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3070	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to explain why our three clubs have proposed an emergency procedure for this law which, unfortunately, was not adopted yesterday. If we read well and count calendar days yesterday was the first day of the application of Articles 7, 8, 10 and 11 of this Act, because in transitional provisions it was said that these provisions began to apply within four months of the entry into force of this law and therefore all of these provisions concerning the conflict of interest of individuals came into force yesterday and started to apply. This was the only reason why we proposed an emergency procedure, and the possibility of law-making was today, for it to be voted in whole and brought forward in order to make use of these changes that the government itself proposes on the same day or on the same day. So that was the only reason for the emergency procedure. What is common and the proposal to amend and supplement this law given by the Government and what our three clubs have offered is that we have jointly proposed to include the mayors and their deputies, municipal chiefs and mayors, or the presidents of the municipal councils when acting as chiefs, because under the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, where no heads or chiefs are elected, the council presidents have all the rights and obligations of the municipal commissioners. We agree and agree in our proposal to delete those famous 25% and more shares in Article 11, because we believe that each share and each share must be covered by this law. However, what the Government did not include in its proposal, and our proposal provides for Article 11(3), which regulated the obligation to make such a business relationship when it was concluded with the state authority or local self-government authorities, and the management rights of the Commissioner have been transferred. The current law uses the expression of state and local self-government, state authorities and local self-government, and regional self-government was omitted, so it would appear that business and contract signing should be reported, regardless of how they occurred with municipalities and cities and states, but not with the counties because the term regional self-government was left out, and according to our legislation, the county's authorities are regional and not local self-government. Given that in the government's proposal, I have submitted an amendment to the revision of that and the government's proposal is that when we're already discussing this, we have to put it inside so that we don't have a whole of it again after the second or third changes. And in the end, not wanting to prolong, fellow Letica is partly right when she doubts the ability of this commission to work, but not because of someone's public statements, but because of serious obstruction or attempts at obstruction in the work of this Committee, and these are two evidences. All those who, by the law which was in force, were required to make any acts, the decisions of the declaration that they could work, did not make any such decision or act, and the fact that these necessary repairs under the government's proposal do not want to be made by an urgent procedure and, with all these shortcomings and extensions of the deadlines, that there is really no political will to apply this law as a whole since yesterday, but rather in those provisions that exist without these proposed amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3071	Thank you. Now we're going to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy. Excuse me, colleague, working bodies. Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3072	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, we will talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests on the conduct of public duties, meaning by the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSP. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for this law, and we discussed the law under our jurisdiction under Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted its opinion on the proposal for this law, stating that it did not support the proposal for a law on officials to whom the draft law applies and how the amendments to the transitional and final provisions of the applicable Law apply. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority of votes of 7 votes and 3 votes against, that this law should not be adopted. The second report on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the conduct of public duties which means the Government's proposal. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 24 February 2004 discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 February 2004. The Committee discussed the Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions to the bill, following a debate with the majority of votes 8 for and 1 against and 1 abstention, we proposed that the Parliament adopt the proposal for this Law. And a third report with a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 24 February discussed the proposal for this Law on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an opinion on this Bill of Law, but given that the bill regulates the same issue as the Amendments and Supplements Act on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee supported in the debate the solutions set out in the Bill of Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. After a debate with the majority of votes, 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3073	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Legislative Committee want to further explain? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Dear fellow Caine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3074	Honored Mr. President, honourable members or representatives of the government, distinguished gentlemen of the parliament. IDS is that once and for all, this matter is regulated, strictly regulated, we are absolutely and unconditional, and as I said once and for all. However, with these permanent amendments to a certain law, the Law with insufficiently precise norms, not only degrades the position of Croatian officials but degrades Croatian institutions through such a form, and this is a tragedy in my court. In this context, I have the impression that the biggest blow is experienced by the Croatian Parliament and then the question arises from whom. Well, clearly from the executive authority. So what does that say? DA's executive power is "subordinated" by representative rather than vice versa. Finally, the more representative power, the weaker, and the weaker it is in Croatia, it is certainly weak, the power of the executive authority is stronger and it is by us in the IDS Club conflict of interest couple excellence. Therefore, in our opinion, it is time for the Croatian Parliament to elect for true parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. And how do you do that? By not allowing the executive authority to continue to degrade this House, which is best expressed in this year's budget where the funds for the Parliament have been reduced by 25%, someone will say well because of the elections held and the Government on the other hand, or the President of the Republic, have increased those funds compared to last year by 25%. As a minimum, we should demand that all officials be in the position of MPs. The exception to me is something Letica, Mr Letica, excuse me, may be the president of the state, the Prime Minister, the ministers, so everyone else must be left without a phone, and then the computer, cell phones, cars, thousands and other benefits, and reduced to the position of the Croatian Parliament representative who is certainly unique in Europe. We are probably the only Parliament where MPs don't even have a desk, where they don't even have a chair, and about cell phones, representations, and the like of which each head has in any small-scale municipality that we don't speak in a single word. Finally, the question arises why would the Government of the Republic of Croatia have to propose this law, rather than return it with a proposal from who in this country can be an official at all. In my court, officials can only be those who have directly elected legitimacy. No Registrar of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Registrar of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Court, Deputy Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary, Advocate for Children, Deputy State Secretary in the Central State Offices, No Directors, Deputy Directors, Assistant Directors of State Administration Organisations, No President and Vice President of the Croatian Privatisation Fund, No Director and Assistant Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, No Directors, No Directors, Deputy Directors of the Directors of the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, No Chief State Treasury, Head of the Office, Directors of the Agency, Directors of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Directors of the Office appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, No Officials, Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and so on. So those who, with the election legitimacy of MPs, go to the State Secretary or go to the assistant minister's post, let them clearly retain the status of officials. The rest of you don't. It is clear that the position of judges, judicial employees, is clear that the position of governor of the Croatian National Bank should be protected, it should be regulated by special laws. Why, for example, would ministerial assistants in the Government of the Republic of Croatia be officials? At last, there are far more of them than the MPs themselves. Why would a representative of the Croatian Privatisation Fund be an official? Why would the president's office be officials? Let the gentlemen go to the elections nicely, let them feel all the charms of choice, let them feel what it looks like, and let them bear clearly the status of officials afterwards. And it's finally enough for the executive power to permanently impose, I don't know, their own solutions to this home. If we can't fight for the dignity of home then I don't know, maybe we should form a union and defend ourselves against the executive authority because, as I said, it's by the IDS Club the conflict of interest of a couple of exellances in the Republic, in the Republic of Croatia. But the joke's on the side now. The problem of number one in this country is that the executive authority makes its own rules clear to itself, and as a disciplined voting machine, the Assembly generally votes them. Of course, I didn't mention here members of public companies who are all ten times in a better position, not only from MPs, but probably from the minister. Who is to blame for this position of Parliament? So perhaps even those who declare or as we started talking about yesterday open the debate as Parliament's chateau did, forgetting that the first parliament had called this Goebbels. Clearly, I am not pulling any parallels with this Nazi only the position of the Parliament should be raised once above the position of executive authority. On the other hand, it should also be said to the citizens: “Dear gentlemen, this house does not decide God’s purpose. Real decisions are made on the other side of Mark’s square.” This clearly does not mean that we do not need the Parliament. Yes, of course. And when would all of this change in the political life of the Republic of Croatia? So if we were to organise direct elections for every place in this House. Only then would they see what the people whose mother had black fleece had to say. This way 80% of the MPs are hiding behind someone and it's obviously not good. For example, we ask that mayors in cities, municipalities, mayors continue to be elected directly, but we have no idea that directly elected MPs in this house, which I think is lascivious. As for non-reimbursement of wages, if one is not acting in a year's time, let it be introduced, but who has the right to touch constitutional principles and introduce retroactivity into that legal text. Well, it's clear that it's going to be welcomed because of Chachia, but for one example, I'd say we're raping the Constitution. Finally, the Constitution is precise, and he says that the law and other regulations cannot have this retroactive action reversing, even though it is added in the paragraph beyond that only for particularly justified reasons, only certain provisions of the law may have a reverse or retroactive effect. But where is the respected gentlemen problem? We have this legal text as proposed by the government we write exactly, I will not name them as person A, person B and person C. It just doesn't work. I am aware that this principle of these cases will be well accepted in the Croatian public. But that kind of practice where the law is going to be written for one, two or three people, I think it's a dangerous practice because the question of whether or not we're going to stop at that. As much as possible of these laws, the future position of parliament will be weaker and the future citizens will be even more entertained by the position of MPs. The weaker the position on the other side of the Assembly is the clear power of the excellent, executive power greater. Instead of being the one to oversee the government, we have a reverse situation which, in my court, is not a perspective for the Republic of Croatia. Finally, what I said we should do is try to reduce the number of officials in the Republic of Croatia. We now see that both municipal chiefs and mayors, as the President of the Council said just before, I need not be treated as state officials, so let's, gentlemen, finely extend it to everyone who works in the public service to some 200,000 people who are engaged in this or that way in these institutions. And once again absolutely is the IDS for regulating the rights of officials. There's no dispute here. Even more to regulate in which situations this may be a conflict of interest although it will be difficult to always specify precisely. And I'm just asking that, for every particular case, the law doesn't change, and it doesn't introduce that principle of retroactiveness. We are mainly for what Mr. Letica spoke of, this regulation of corporate activities of officials. This is particularly important if we are convinced, at least I am, that capital was crucial in these elections to come up with some political options in the position of government. In the future, that capital will be even more present when the government is in the Republic of Croatia, and that is bad because we will also, I don't know, submit political life exclusively to it, not to the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3075	Thank you, fellow Caine. I am obliged as the President of the Parliament and by the Rules of Procedure to propose the Budget, the draft budget for the costs of the Assembly to be presented as follows. At the end of last year, the planned funds for the Croatian Parliament amounting to 90 million kuna were also planned, as it came from the assumption at the end of last year that the elections will be held for the Croatian Parliament in 2004. As is known, the elections were held in 2003, on November 23rd, so that they simply dropped those costs of state election commissions and the implementation of the elections planned under the assumption that the elections would be held in 2004. That is why there are no reductions in the draft budget for the Croatian Parliament because the position was scheduled for the elections, and the elections were held in 2003. So please, colleagues and colleagues, do not mess with the data and the fact that the elections, that the Croatian Parliament has been reduced by 25% in the Budget Proposal for this year, by 90 million because it simply does not stand. And finally, fellow Caine, you're saying again that some call this Parliament a blabber. I don't know who you're alluding to. No one called it, no one. So your adjudication to Goebbels, let's just keep your illusions. We're going to correct the incorrect allegations. The first is a colleague of the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3076	Thank you, Mr. President. I would correct the incorrect assumption that colleague Cain pointed out when he said that the source of conflict of interest is somehow, in fact, perhaps or conflict I do not know the exact word that he stated between the executive and the legislative authority an example of conflict of interest couple excellence. It's all about different things. It is a matter of mutual separation, of mutual control and of the three authorities that we very much need, but it is a question of strengthening parliamentaryism that we have all agreed a little bit and a little bit and a little bit here. However, I say, it is incorrect that parliamentarians cannot be in the same way, if not even in a greater execution, the dangers of conflict of interest, and for their joy probably if they do so in conflict of interest as the representatives of the executive government. Well, already in the world, lobbying is thought to be one of the ultimate forms of lobbying can appear as one of the most hopeless corruptions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3077	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3078	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Maybe I'll hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm sorry. Namely,..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3079	Don't, you're a professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3080	I am personally very proud that I am from a family that has invested a great deal in the anti-fascist struggle, and that is why I would ask my colleague Cain not to use, not even a distant illusion that concerns perhaps the head of our Parliament or other MPs who would in any way link this House to the tradition that has been unkind to us. And whether he agrees with the president's statements or anyone else's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3081	Thank you very much. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3082	Well, I wanted to say to Mr. President that Mr. Agent was talking about the retroactiveness of the law, he was talking about a law relating to several state officials. But it's about the wrong law. We have now discussed the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the Law on Supplements to the Law on State Officials will be discussed later. Here, if he wanted to react.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3083	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the House Đurđa Adlešić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSLS and DC-. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3084	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. We are facing today two important laws that I hope we will be able to discuss today, this is the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, which we have several in the procedure, and on the rights and obligations of state officials. Why are the laws important to you? I really hold that they are important, because they can bring back what this home is, and it looks like politics has lost, and that's a dignity, or at least try to get it back. So is politics as well as business. It's usually a public impression, it's a risk and today's debate, that we politicians and parliamentary deputies at the beginning of each term first discuss ourselves for days. To discuss our rights, to discuss our salaries, without mainly discussing our obligations. I also remembered the debate with which we began the last term, it was a debate on parliamentary salaries. With the intention of paying less. We as politicians were convinced that it was a good job to cut our salaries. However, to reduce something that is large enough for Croatia's proposal, for some small percentage, has actually only caused even greater anger, almost justifiable public anger. Today we will discuss again it seems that in the second part of our salaries that are not small, our obligations for which the average viewer of television can conclude that we do not even have them, because they can see often empty halls, even without sanctions, except that each of us can claim in the elections that are usually after 4 years. What should be dealt with by the laws that we are now discussing, is in fact making it impossible to conflict of interest, or to be honest with them to the least possible extent. In some of the statistics that were available to us, we noticed what citizens are particularly sensitive to. In particular, sensitivity has been shown to trade state officials' own companies with the state. The so-called accidentally obtaining jobs in competitions regardless of whether they are contractors or supervisory. And then behind that statement, it's all legal. Well then, when we've been given sentences, we know in advance that it will be proved by law, then it has really come to terms with the statements that we can read today that we are untouchable. We support at the HSLS and DC Club, and so was our programme to abolish an article that is known in public as the 25% famous amendment, which has completely degraded the law that was passed at the end of the term of office. Because the rest is prescribed that you should not, for example, receive a slightly more expensive perfume, but that is why you can trade with the state. This is therefore the abolition of Article 11(1) of the Government's proposal. However, what we proposed at the end of the last term, and I believe it is worth mentioning in this debate that we should really know at the end of the term and how the members of our families have progressed. So it is interesting to remind you in the past mandt that marriage mates, even some brothers, were all equally successful from the ruling party and created envious careers. That's not why we're here, we're not to be banned from having someone pursue their business ambitions, but then we should really talk about it openly and show that kind of information to the public at the end of our term. We also support the proposal to extend this law to the mayors, the mayors and the mayors, of course, but would also like to draw attention to a topic which could be particularly interesting these days. It was opened yesterday at some meetings, as well as during talks outside the assembly. And it's a membership in companies, administrations, boards of directors. Thus, Article 11 states, officials cannot be members of the management or supervisory boards of commercial companies. However, paragraph 6 states that exceptional officials may be members of the supervisory boards of companies that are state-owned or in which the state has a majority share, of which they are of particular national interest, but without the right to any compensation or receipt of the gift. It's very important and it has to be clear. In addition to the right to compensation for travel and other expenses, these others should of course be specified, because we are a very imaginative people, and these others can turn into something that I believe we here wouldn't even know how to count at this point, but there are more imaginative than any of us who could explain this part. The Croatian Parliament shall establish a list of companies of special national interest, on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that it is important that the day at the end of this debate we bring or determine a term in which the Government, with this proposal for a list of companies of special national interest, will go before the Parliament so that we do not have any different interpretations of what is happening. In the conversations that I had with the secretary of state earlier, I think we could suggest that it be a 15-day term for the government to try to deliver or establish a list of companies of special state interest within this 15-day period or at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3085	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. counterpart Adlesic said the government passed at the beginning of the parliament on the government's proposal for a last term, insignificantly and insignificantly cut Croatian officials' salaries. I would warn, however, that a reduction in wages of more than 40% is not symbolic or demagogue but rather a significant reduction in wages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3087	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3088	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! Vice-President of the Parliament Mrs Adlesic said and I warn of the same correction my colleague Lucin mentioned. So, I quote, that by a small percentage the wages were reduced and that in that sense it was her discussion, it was not important etc. It doesn't matter then. I must say that it can indeed be reduced by more than 40% but that it was not a small percentage and I propose to my colleague Adlesic as a member, now as part of the ruling coalition that she proposes to now decrease by 70% or as much as she wants. I am convinced that they will be very happy to accept this in both the Parliament and the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3089	On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Ante Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3090	No text
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3091	Please, well-respected colleague Markov. It is up to a respected colleague, Miroslav Rožic, on behalf of the HSP's Club of Representatives. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3092	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I certainly did not say anything new to you or to the Croatian public if I remind you that the Croatian Party of law or the club of HSP in the Croatian Parliament was, in fact, almost three years ago, the initiator of the adoption of this law and, in fact, the author of the first proposal of this law which then entered the parliamentary procedure, and then it was actually changed for three years, I would have said balanced with various interests, opinions and views of this problem that we are talking about, which is a conflict of interest. All of this ended in such a way that one working group was formed, that it was the Government's proposal, that the government's proposal had been acidified for two years at the government meetings, that the working group had then joined our proposal and the Government's proposal, that various compromises had been reached, and that, in fact, in one word, the law of one good intention, from a good law that had to solve some principled issues, had been set up by some rules of the game regarding entrepreneurship policies, i.e. high politics in Croatia, was actually massacred to that extent that it had become unrecognizable. The Croatian party of rights and the club gave its proposal to amend and supplement the law for this session. However, as you know, we have withdrawn this proposal now and for this very reason, because we have actually realized that the very purpose and purpose of this law and this proposal has actually been completely annulled and completely turned into a bureaucratic debate at the level of who will be covered and whether the first article with the list of officials will have 74 indents or 63 indents. Will, as the Government suggests, in this amendment that we are now discussing here, be involved between the rest and the Registrar of the Constitutional Court and the Registrar of the Supreme Court who, of course, were not officials until about a month ago, or rather 15 days ago, when in fact the amendment of the Law on State Officials became state officials, and then it became a matter of whether all those officials who were listed there should stand in the Law on behalf of the State Officials, and then it became a question of whether they should be treated to them all, and then finally this question was raised by a colleague of Markov on behalf of the club of HSS whether I was actually subject to the law or under the influence of that law of the Minister, whether we were actually allowing him to carry out all of my own interests through his own secretary, etc., etc. So he opened up a whole series of questions. And now, in fact, what do we have? We actually have one law that, with these changes and without these changes, and with three, five, ten or not, I don't know how many changes will be quite certain in the next year or two to experience. We're actually going to have one law that's completely inconclusive. He is inconclusive because already, according to different interpretations of this law in the conflict of interest, anyone and in the conflict of interest can be no one. It all depends on how this will be interpreted by the commission and, unfortunately, on what the law says, nothing in this law can be caught firmly. So again, it's left to one of their discretionary rights to actually interpret certain problems in the way they want to, to adopt regulations that will regulate things that should be governed by the law, etc., etc. I'm just going to mention a few absurd things that these different changes and additions have actually been introduced into this law. First of all, the law says that the president of the commission can't be from a party acting in power, but it doesn't say at what level the government is acting. Since the amendments and additions of that law entered as those that would come under the influence of that law, both the mayors and the mayors, so the mayors of the municipalities can then be absolutely absurdly interpreted that the president of this commission must not, in fact, be of the party acting by the authority at the level of a municipality or a city because it does not say at which level the government is acting, only it must not be from a party acting in power. Since the law and the mayors of the municipalities are that it could be very simple to interpret that if a party has some head of the municipality somewhere that the party from that party should not be the chairman of the commission. Of course it's completely absurd but it'll probably need to be changed, too. In other words, it can actually be interpreted so that the chairman of the commission could not be from a party that, for example, behaves in a local committee or city district, a settlement, a municipality or anything else. Furthermore, we here have a second level of problem of this law is a commission which we have already really dealt with here, but this commission still consists of 6 members and not of 7 as it says in the law or according to the interpretation of the parliamentary majority here, it is a commission that is quite regular and that is perfectly fine. However, the same parliamentary majority interprets that in the case of the HRT Council where there are 10 members of the HRT Council instead of 11 as set out in the Law, then they say it is the HRT Council illegal. However, if you have this committee that consists of six members and it says in law of seven, then it's legal. However, whether it is legal or not, this commission is not even independent because it wants to be converted into a constituency. For example, rooms in the Assembly have been reportedly assigned. They should have their own professional service provided by the Assembly, they should have their own archives, their safes, their servers. And at the request of some members of that commission, they should even have salaries, and not less or less, as advocates. So, second thing, the Committee has already begun to deal with entirely ephermic topics. A provision, for example, on dealing with gifts, instead of establishing conflicts of interest. Furthermore, the President of the State is not covered by this law because it was subsequently rejected when the law was passed. So, by that principle, the President of the State can own a company that, for example, trades oil and sells it to a state-owned company, let's take an INI, for example, because this law allows it. Furthermore, the Commission had to determine whether it was for example. Some minister finds himself in a conflict of interest if his firm is operating with the state, of course in which he is a minister and does not deal with where gifts will be stored. Furthermore, the Commission's task was to become a measure of conflict of interest. Daclele, someone who will give a metric opinion, is in conflict of interest, say, the minister or president's defense counsellor if his wife, for example, owns a factory that manufactures socks for the military, etc., etc., etc. That was the commission's task. The commission should not have been a parliamentary inquisition that will have a huge archive, professional services that will deal with the establishment of a room, safes in which to store property cards, for example the mayor of municipalities, flatly and similarly, rather than dealing with issues of conflict of interest at the highest level of ministers etc. What do property cards have to do with conflict of interest in the first place? Well, I guess not all of them are rich in conflict of interest. A man can also be obtained at the lottery and that he is not in conflict of interest, of course, and unless he is the chairman of the Croatian Lottery Supervisory Board, for example. So this commission was not supposed to be any parallel state attorneyship, no kind of leap specialising in state officials from the Prime Minister to the chairman of the local committee. The Commission should have been an independent body which would have the power to verify the allegations of a conflict of interest of senior state officials. And that this reported suspicion is that it is public opinion that everyone knows that this and this minister or that and that politician are not defending the public interest that voters have chosen him for but to defend their personal interest and to the detriment of those who chose him. For this we didn't need any Inquisition Committee, we didn't need teachers of criminal law who would ask for the pay of parliamentary deputies for the job, who would replace state lawyers, police, court, judges, etc. All we needed was a public court. We needed clear game rules and someone who would objectively judge whether players respected these game rules or not. That was the purpose of the law, that was the meaning of this commission. And it only takes political will, first of all, which clearly doesn't have enough, so we in HSP will wait for some future times when it will be enough for politicians to deal with politics and entrepreneurs to do entrepreneurship rather than vice versa. And that's why we withdrew our proposal from the procedure of amending and supplementing this law. We will wait for a time when the public court will be subject to ministers and mayors and not the presidents of municipalities with a budget smaller than the value of an annex contract to build a tunnel even if at the end of that tunnel and the light was monitored. The real Law of Conflict of Interest will then be submitted again to this Croatian Parliament, and by then, of course, let us withdraw from the debate and from participating in this farce, which has turned into hope that Croatia even though we have tried to defend something that is inadmissible in the hope that Croatian politics does not score the auto goal again. We didn't do it, and that's our only problem, and the only problem really is this whole law, and we can deal with it now for the next two and three years, but all together, it's become one huge political absurd, and unfortunately, we're back to being auto-naked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3093	Thank you, dear colleague Rosic. Before we continue to discuss a notice, all members of the Committee on Legislatives shall be informed that an extension of the 5th session of the Committee will be held today on 26 February at 11 o'clock in Hall 84. The agenda was proposed for the session, the proposal for a bill on the support of the handover of the authorities, P.Z. No. 30. It is up to you, dear colleague Jozo Radoš, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre, please welcome colleague Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would first of all be a little more calm and contrary to how this Law was welcomed in the Croatian public, showing satisfaction that this Law exists. The road from the idea, i.e. from the first legal text to the good regulation of this problem is very long. To show that I'm just going to quote here, an example of Great Britain to see just a few details of what this trip to Great Britain looked like. So let's see that our reasons, our stories, our public attention is very superficial and that the way to the real mechanism of preventing interest is very, very long. And of course if we give attention to superficial, insignificant things, then that path will be even longer. In 1695, therefore, more than 300 years ago, the British Parliament adopted the Declaration, that is, the Resolution that it is harmful or forbidden to take... by parliamentarians and since then, more than 300 years have not happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because it was believed that this area should function on the basis of trust, the foundation of gentlemen's relationship, the foundation of the lordship. However, following a series of scandals that occurred in the 1970s, the first, rules of conduct of parliamentary deputies are passed, but, of course, the first rules as well as most of the first rules in such a delicate area do not last long, so that in 95, 96, a new phase of debate is opened, new much more detailed rules on how MPs should behave but it does not last long. Last 2003, the British Parliament opened a debate on whether this code of contact, i.e. the rules of conduct of state officials or parliamentarians in this case, gave it a good one, obviously not good when the debate was opened that it was completely audited for the third time in 30 years. After more than 300 years of such regulations. And we have reduced our whole story to this whole debate, whether or not we should register 25% of the shares, or not, to the management of the Commissioner, as if it were absolutely solved. One single topic that was present in the Croatian public, whether or not these famous 25% are given to the emissary. And it is clear of course that the very fact that you handed over to the stock management doesn't mean anything at all about your conflict of interest. If in such a superficial way we approach such a delicate question as what is a conflict of interest that is very difficult to catch in countries with a much longer tradition of democracy, then our path will be longer than British 300 years. In our law, Article 11 of the H-point states that it is forbidden for the official to use privileged information on the activities of the national authorities for personal breakthroughs or perforation of a connected person. So as ladies and gentlemen, we can expect if we haven't even talked about how to realize that I'm going to implement that provision. So there's a thousand ways in which someone who's interested in who transferred their shares or didn't transfer them is absolutely irrelevant, can influence the use of privileged information that he's come up with in the conduct of public duty. We have not said a word in the implementation of this law about how this very difficult, very complicated provision of this Law can possibly be applied. Because all we cared about was whether someone registered their 25% with the commissioner or not. I don't have any shares, I don't have any political or personal interest to defend anyone who has shares, but neither do these provisions of the law, even if we need to bring them in for this climate that's created, we're not going to take a big step forward. We only took one step just by passing the law and it is therefore harmful that the law did not come three years earlier. Because in such delicate matters, unfortunately, it is more important to start than try to make the law ideal. And of course, as my colleague before me said, this law is not only ideal but probably not good. So there's only one single positive fact left, and that's that this law has been passed at all. Either it is said in Article 11(4) that the debtor must not give notice of the order, or otherwise be in connection with that person, namely the trustee. So how can you verify that a representative or a state official, or a person in conflict of interest, I think that we only limit it to officials, everyone is potentially in conflict of interest. He who has great public powers whether he is an official or not is also in conflict of interest and should be in this law. How will you monitor that he is in no way related to that person, except that once a year he has the right to receive a report on the state of his business, Well, that's a highly inconclusive provision that's more incomparably important than whether or not someone registered the 25%. One of the only topics that was present here in the parliamentary debate on which difficult qualifications were discussed and which only this topic was actually addressed for almost half a year by the Croatian public. It's as if it's in someone's interest to focus the question in the roof direction. In order to avoid actually solving the real problems and these two provisions of the laws that I have quoted are absolutely unimplementable and very delicate and important, they are absolutely more important than what has been the main focus of our parliamentary debates, and unfortunately our public reflections on these discussions. I, of course, am in the name of the Club LIBRE and, as a proposing, support these amendments and additions they will certainly contribute but for the grains to make this law better. Of course, the deadlines need to be harmonised, and the list of officials needs to be completed, but there remains a number of questions. Only officials are mentioned, similar laws in the world contain provisions that speak of high-ranking civil servants. Anyone who manages large public funds is in a potential conflict of interest. And it is absolutely irrelevant whether he is in electoral function or in another person that comes into conflict of interest and must be regulated. This is part of the climate of creating a negative climate, about politicians and politicians as a damned profession and absoluteoton condemning all those who in this climate are spittling on themselves because political work is a difficult and responsible job if they behave responsibly and honestly. This is part of the climate that we are all under, and it certainly cannot be so, pre-ready to abuse our powers and pre-ready to use the resources of the state budget for private breakthroughs. And you don't actually do anything and that's not true. There are people in this country who deal with politics, who are honestly responsible very hard and dedicated to their duties. And we need to create a climate in which the public will do such things and choose such things, for example in this law we don't only mention property. There are no other conflicts of interest, while, for example, in the Birani Law or that code of the condact, the so-called "relevant possibility of conflict of interest" is mentioned as one of the very important possibilities of conflict of interest. hospitality. There were ladies and gentlemen of our officials, the presidents of which such administrations and so on, who had taken a sudden picture on our screens in Japan, Spain, Slovenia. It's got to be reported. In Great Britain, a representative reports when two were as a guest on fishing in Scotland because it can be a very important conflict of interest, and therefore it is connected if it is of course donated and how to question the abuse of the duties of that official, or that representative. There's no mention of that with us at all. You may freely appear and take pictures of yourself on screens in Japan or America, with finely-looking national uniforms, and no one asks you how you got here, and who paid you for it. Such things must also be in this law. And otherwise I think that all of this should be done much more in detail, these are really technical changes in that sense I'm saying that they're not bad. But I suggest we let this model of ours go wrong in one segment, so let's see after two years when it shows its weaknesses, let's see how it should be changed. We certainly do not have to wait 20 years or 5 years, but they are neither good nor instant suggestions that actually resurface and most often and unfortunately irrelevant things, and such important issues remain in the background. We, for example, broke the Law, or the Government broke the law if after 16 February it appointed any member of the Supervisory Board who is an official. According to our law, it states that which was adopted or entered into force on 16 October that the Croatian Parliament determines the list of companies of special national interest on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in such companies officials may be members of the Supervisory Board. If officials, ministers and ministerial assistants are appointed, etc., and that decision takes effect four months after the law enters into force, so on 16 February, then the Law was broken, the Assembly did not make a decision and these officials were appointed to the supervisory committees without actually respecting this provision that the Parliament had previously determined which companies these representatives should be appointed. And yet another paradox of our Law, there is no director of a public firm here, is mentioned directors, presidents, deputies, state administrations whose budget is 500 thousand kuna or perhaps one million kuna, and the directors of public companies that run billions of kuna are not here in this Act. So the heads of small municipalities that have barely a budget of 200,000 kuna or 300,000 kuna are mentioned, not to mention, for example, the directors of the larger local self-government units, which may have tens or hundreds of millions of kuna. It's absolutely harmful and it's wrong to say once again about the division between officials and others. Not only do modern democracies, partly thanks to the international community most often in transition countries, because in this sense they do not have their own tradition to regulate the rights of officials, but as I said, the rights of high-ranking civil servants. Because both of them are in a potential conflict of interest and that you are an electoral duty does not mean that the priorities are more prone to conflict of interest than someone who has come to this duty especially if we know that today's appointments continue to be done not by professional but unfortunately still dominating political commitment, so it is not important whether you are chosen but what state or public means you have and how much danger it is to enter a serious conflict of interest. So these are things that need to be regulated and more than that in modern democracies, the behaviour of civil servants is regulated. All of them. Any civil servant may be in conflict of interest and not only in conflict of interest, he may be in conflict of interest with regard to the misbehaving of his duty and poor service to citizens, and then special laws on what status he is, so they are not only obligations but also the rights of civil servants. And of course there are provisions in such laws that are their obligations regarding possible conflict of interest, receiving gifts, bribes, etc. And that's what's waiting for us in this too, so much deeper, much more complicated question than we've been working on so far, but I think what we've done that's good, I support, of course, one and another proposal, I expect them to be accepted. I will, of course, come out on behalf of the Club LIBRE with some amendments in this sense in which I have spoken here unless the appropriate proposals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia appear. And I suggest we wait for a time, two years until we see how this model of ours will work and then with these experiences, and probably with some theoretical insight, deeper than we did now with much more real content with much less politics, we enter after 2 years into a thorough construction of this whole complex of potential conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3095	Thank you, dear fellow Radosh. I would like to inform you colleagues and colleagues that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the time has elapsed for application in an individual debate. We're continuing the debate. It is on behalf of the HDZ Club, dear colleague Drazen Bošnjakovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3096	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I was in the last term when this law was passed outside of this House, I wasn't a parliamentary representative, so I followed the public into what kind of interest it was. The interest in this Law was in some way a test of conscience and responsibilities both of the Parliament and of the Government that actually people wanted to see if the Parliament and the Government were ready for this kind of law that would standardise their behavior that would in any case try to influence it as knowingly and more responsibly as possible. And it became the impression that someone was afraid of something, that they were avoiding the adoption of this Law that it would not answer to someone and that it should have been brought far before. And that is why it is very good that the Law is passed, that the Law is in force and that is why it is very good that we have entered into one process to clarify this Law through this Law on Amendments and Supplements that we are trying to specify. However, what is certainly true is that as much as we do today, it will be very difficult to prescribe legal standards for all possible situations of life and all possible behaviours that may arise and where conflicts of interest can arise, where conflicts of personal interest can arise. So, in my opinion, it is much more important and much more important that the institutions of the state, that the state bodies mean they function professionally, knowingly, professionally and to protect them from the influence of politics. This means that if public procurements are conducted that these commissions really work under the Law, no one can influence these people so that the decisions they make are absolutely based on the law. And that is why we from the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this Act, with the view that what my colleague Rados was saying that Article 11 concerning shares and shares in companies is indeed a norm that needs to be clarified and specified, because the very fact that the management rights are transferred to shares and companies does not mean much by itself because the share is one piece of paper that gives a single palette, one aspect of the right, among other things, to pay dividends and to participate in the work of the Assembly, and to information, and that the shareholder is elected to certain bodies of a limited society, and it does not in itself give the original right to manage in society so that in any case this article of the Law, I think that he must experience a change and that he must be specified to be as clear as possible. We will support the law because we think it is very good and it is important that this Law exists and already itself, its very existence in some way is, lets know that all officials are actually in agreement that our behavior is being brought under these norms and I think that this Law and this supplement is actually one beginning and that in the future how some life situations are going to happen is going to have to or predict them, or after that, actually install them. It's a very specific law that will actually have to be timed and developed. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3097	Thank you very much, Comrade Bosnjakovic. On behalf of Social Democratic Party Representatives Club, respected counterpart Ivo Josipovic. Here you go. Prior to that, the correction of the inaccuracies of fellow Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to correct the allegations of a representative of the HDZ Club that no one is preventing this law from being implemented. I repeat, and as I have said before that a series of obstructions of the implementation of this Act and by the Government itself have been carried out because, within the deadline provided for, neither has it taken any decision to implement it, the Parliament has proposed any decision which is due and has nevertheless appointed members of the Supervisory Boards, state-owned enterprises before the Parliament has established in which companies are working. The government is in conflict of interest under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3099	Thank you very much. ... a correction in an incorrect quote rather than a statement of opinion. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you go, colleague Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3100	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I don't think he should be particularly wise to see that the public's attitude towards politicians is not good. Because of real, but very often invented affairs, the reputation of politicians is very low. I'm going to remind myself of one lot, I think, a wise thesis that was true to judges, but it seems to me that it's applicable to politicians that politicians not only must be honest but must and seem fair because if it doesn't, then the public doesn't trust in its action. The way this Law was passed when it was passed and the way the elected commission was quite certain to the government, the public did not convince the good looks of politics and politicians. It seemed to me that a number of problems, serious problems were put aside and that the public was entertained by the way the commission was elected, that they were entertained by whether someone had a two-bedroom or a three-bedroom apartment or some other non-essential details, and that the concept of conflict of interest in the general public, but it seems to me that there are some debates here and in this house they don't really see in their essence. Also, that mistrust is so much so that I've heard a little bit of maybe and funny, but a bad remark when, some of these reports have been made that we've all filed that instead of that former Fund, a hungry child should be founded by a hungry politician fund. Why? Obviously, we have all succumbed together to the public and are working on our own to form an opinion that only a poor politician is a good politician. It's something that doesn't contribute to dignity or individuals, or what's called politics as a waist. That is why this Law, when we look at it, which was obviously one step, is the step at a time when no matter what compromises have taken place, and neither are these changes and additions that are being made, this important problem is not being solved. The law and all these laws, although I say, are certain repairs actually patching up some shortcomings, and the nomotechnical and essential weaknesses of the Law remain. The main lack of the whole concept is that both in politics and in public, the commission was considered and accepted as a kind of leap for politicians. Furthermore, there is no discriminating the concept of corruption from the problem of conflict of interest. Corruption is covered by police, USKOK, State's Attorney's Office and other competent services, and the commission has to deal with something that is the public relationship of one morale, public morality according to the conduct of duty. It should be pointed out from other problems that the circle of persons who, in the sense of this Law, are considered officials on the one hand, is too narrow because what has already been pointed out is that perhaps the conflict of interest of very low-ranking officials who deal with small amounts of money is deeply concerned, and that some who may not be officials are already directors of public companies or some other bodies, in fact, also dealing with huge amounts of money, are not under public scrutiny. Furthermore, the circle may be too wide and even the issue of constitutionality to include at least within the meaning of this Law of Rectors, university procurators especially because universities may also be private. With what right do we put the rectors, the proctors of the private ones, and I think the public universities go the same, the same procedure as the officials. Furthermore, the issue of sanctions is not well resolved either. The sanctions must firstly be political, and the question of whether in the event that those sanctions are not political, it is the issue of the fine whether it is appropriate that there is no legal remedy against the decision. The law does not disseminating the difference between individual types of officials. Surely you know and understand for yourself that possible conflicts of interest to someone who is a member of the Government or a member of Parliament or a member of a local parliament, I don't know what, can't be at the same level. It is also an undistributed responsibility and a responsibility for, for a possible conflict of interest and given the quantity of material interest that may arise there. We are equally treating someone who, for example, would be co-owner of, for example, I'm going to say INAs in 25% as well as someone who has a candy store in Vrbovac, for example. It can't be like that. The law would, if not the law of that practice to be built on a properly profiled law, have to be such that these things are distributed and that the mechanism of control of a possible conflict of interest is not exhausted in meaningless and unnecessary matters. Exactly because this law as it is so far seems to me to have endured a test of the public either in its application or in some solutions, nor in normative solutions. It would be good to approach the new law, and that is precisely because it is a specific law which also presents politics as a profession to the public, it would be good for the law to be conceived not as a government proposal, but also to be the result of a particular consensus of all parties and not only parties but also of the public in the face of, of course, those specialised NGOs dealing with this problem. Such a new approach, if there is room for changes and additions, may be some of these principles can be installed now, but I doubt that, I should go from the following principles: first, there should be full transparency of the economic position of each official, and a list of these officials should be better and better profiled. Furthermore, the principle of as many ranked politicians as possible should be applied. Furthermore, the operational function is more supervised and more restrictive. The closer the government, I speak to those who may not be part of the formal government, beyond business. Professionalization of functions and restrictive approach to other activities are certainly mandatory principles, but not by shutting down those activities that may have led representatives and other officials to achieve their affirmation and actually get elections and engage in what is called government behaviour. Furthermore, an important principle would be the principle of proportionality. Control and restrictions must be consistent with the potential economic interest. That is why what I was talking about cannot be treated equally by someone who is a co-owner of a concert and someone who has a small craft or a small farm or is engaged in other small economic activities, where neither theoretical conflict of interest can come. Furthermore, it is necessary to clearly affirm the principle that it is not a sin or a shame to have property, nor to obtain it in accordance with the law. But it is a shame to steal or use a position of office to acquire property. The whole system must continue to be set up so that the work of the commission and this whole procedure is public, but also to protect the personal integrity of each of the officials who are subject to the supervision regime. It is also very important that the principle without which there is no good system, the principle of flexibility, therefore, given that it is primarily an ethical assessment, that it is understood that conflicts of interest cannot be normised so that nothing remains outside and that everything is predetermined, it is an ethical and moral assessment, and therefore each individual case must be appreciated in accordance with the circumstances of each individual official and whether there is a relationship to which it is concerned. and ultimately, in any case, the dominant role in this whole conflict of interest procedure must be played by civil society. Personally, I think most club colleagues agree that all politicians should actually be removed from the commission and that civil society should be controlled in an appropriate and moral and ethical way by a possible conflict of interest. Just because the law and all these amendments and additions do not solve these important problems of conflict of interest, the SDP Club proposes that approaches be made to the new law in the way I have made it, and in terms of this law and these laws that are proposed will remain abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3101	Thank you, dear colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate. First of all, she's a respected colleague of Ivana Sučec-Thrakostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3102	Mr. Vice President, I've come forward with a modest contribution around one point, which is Article 2, where I'm not sure we should really go from zero to shares. Because if we remember that first conversion process, when all the employees in the companies had the right to buy privileged shares worth 20,000 marks at that time, and that was, at the same time, the nominal value of that moment, and that in the meantime the 14-years different changes occurred, so that some of the shares remained owned by individual workers, but were totally unscathed, so they have no nominal, no market value, and that in case we go with a firm approach to this problem, then they would come into a situation so that the cost of the transfer of shares would be, and the question of whether or not they would be transferred to anyone, and if anyone wanted to take those shares that no value would be much, much greater than the value of the shares, and I would support it with my own personal example, so that the picture would be clearer, that I would not go further than myself. So I bought in PIC Vrbovac, then we could each buy 19 thousand and 300 kuna, or 300 marks of shares in that value. In the meantime, it happened that the nomination of shares of 100 marks of nominal value came to 38 June of nominal value, so they are now worth 70 kuna, and I don't know who would want those shares since I am the official. Because if we remember that only a public notary's signature certificate costs 50 kuna, so it's technically impossible to perform, I would come under this strict article 2 if you would adopt yourself as such, so in conflict of interest, and in fact I would be in a loss. So, I suggest, on the basis of that, because this is the first reading, that this sum, means 20 thousand marks that every man and every worker who had rights in the Croatian state based on a working relationship, so that first law on conversion was owned, then it is excluded from this package to be one of the upper borders, so the equivalent of those 20,000 marks, and to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3103	Thank you, dear colleague. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3104	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, something about the order of reference of three legislative proposals to the parliamentary procedure. The HSP Club sent its proposal on 23 January. And the government is on February 18th. A day later in February 19th and clubs of HNS, PGS, LIBRE and IDS. So that's one situation we're slowly getting used to, that the government overwrites opposition legal proposals and points them into a procedure. It's not an isolated case, because if it were the only example, I wouldn't even mention it. But already on this agenda today, the agenda for this session, this is also the case with the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, which also referred the HSPs before the Government. The law on the rights of government officials, which he referred to the SDP before the government, and then the government prescribed it, points to it as its own. And we have an interesting case with the alimony fund, which we presented, and yesterday in our current class, we hear from the vice president and the minister of the family, that the government has singled out such a thing, that it has already allocated funds, and our Alimentary Fund Act has not even been found on the agenda of this session, although it has been referred before many legislative proposals, which are included in the agenda. Obviously it is, and here it is waiting for the government to prescribe our law and to refer it to the procedure. I kind of understand this situation. The ministers are likely not able to prepare legislative proposals, they are busy marking the 14th anniversary of the HDZ draft. We fear that next year this legislative activity of the government will be even weaker, as it will be the 15th anniversary, a small jubilee and so on, we will have to make an effort as an opposition to meet the agenda of the assembly sessions. So much for the order in which to submit legal proposals. I am the law, what is the purpose of this law? Well, the purpose of the law is, of course, to prevent that conflict of interest. It is also referred to in Article 1(2) of the Law itself. Where it is said that an official is in conflict of interest, therefore the conflict of interest is a situation in which the private interests of officials are contrary to the public interest or when the private interest affects or undermining, may affect the impartiality of officials in the exercise of public duty. So when the private interest not only affects the fact that it can be found to be influencing, it can also influence because the official is simply in such a situation. That's the basic purpose of the law. What are these situations? Take, for example, the minister, any minister, for example, for example that he is the minister of health. Well, the health minister still has a stake or just works in a private company that deals with, say, radiological searches. So then the Minister of Health, using his post as minister, suspend the procurement of all radiological apparatus in all hospitals in Croatia. And then patients who have to do radiological tests have to go where? Where the minister has his stakes or where he works in a private office. The minister here acts as a "feral," that feral, that candle that the Dalmatians call "a fish that collects." He appears in the daily press, with his name and last name, to collect patients who are unable to perform their search in other hospitals because the minister has banned the purchase of radiological equipment. Such hypothetical situations as I'm talking about should be dealt with by the commission. And what is the meaning of this commission? It should primarily have public trust and I wonder if the commission we have here today in Croatia has that public trust. This commission is of course a story for itself and the way its members choose and that it is still a pain, and that it is more likely that they will not be able to fill themselves with the seventh member because it should be filled out from the opposition's ranks and the opposition will obviously not participate in that farce. And that commission will remain the mares, and that commission will act without the public's trust, and it will actually be difficult to call the commission to control conflicts of interest, to prevent conflicts of interest. It would be more appropriate to call it a committee to conceal conflict of interest. It is well known that in the appointment of this commission, for example, the initiator of the adoption of this law, Mr Tadic could not find a place in this commission by the parliamentary majority of this House. Everyone can only Tadic can't. And why can't Tadic? Well, because all these years a uncompromising fighter against conflicts of interest against corruption has proved to be the only reason why Mr Tadic was not allowed by the will of the parliamentary majority to enter this commission and that the commission then won the public's trust. I understand, therefore, the club of HSP representatives. I totally understand him for pulling the bill of his own, because he sees that it's a completely pointless job. It is a waste of work to try to correct the law when the commission will be drawn up as it was drawn up and it will act as can be expected to work. The government is referring to its proposal for a law. Look, the government is doing this the moment it doesn't respect the law itself that it proposes to change. The government appoints members of the government to these supervisory committees by violating the law that is just sending us into the procedure. It's kind of outrageous. I don't know if it's been recorded so far in parliamentary practice. And what does the Government suggest with its proposal? To expand the circle of those to whom the law applies and to the municipal commissioners please nicely. Well, that's what we discussed when we passed the first law and we ended up here. It's divorce law. Well, those municipal commissioners are hundreds. So let's bury the commission with hundreds of cases. Why? So he doesn't get to deal with anyone. And that is the purpose and intention of this government's motion to change the law, make it even more inefficient, completely dilute it, make it completely pointless. If the government doesn't withdraw this proposal to extend it to the municipal commissioners, then this law, everything we're doing around it, all the changes, all the changes don't make any sense. I therefore support what the HSP Club said and what my club proposes to create a new law, that politicians do not enter this commission because politicians need to be controlled and the way they are elected here in this commission clearly does not guarantee that this control will be both effective and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3105	Please, nice. We now have the first breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Matušić
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3106	Mr. Vice President, the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to Article 210 and then to Article 214. This Regulation shall enter "The speaker can only talk about the subject under the established agenda.". Mr. Stazic also spoke of some anniversary HDZ. Of course we can send him invitations to come on those anniversarys if he's that interested but they're not here today on the agenda. And you too, Mr. Vice President, have missed the MP's notice under Article 214 unless he holds on to the topic under discussion in his speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3107	Thank you very much, colleague, for your warning. However, counterpart Stazic did not harm the Rules of Procedure in this regard. He spoke of the reasons for which in his opinion they were present and that in fact the government had taken legal proposals from the opposition. A colleague of Babić-Petricevic also has a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3108	Mr. Vice President, although he is a colleague, Matušić is already calling for Articles 210 and 214. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I will refer to Articles 214 paragraphs 5 and 6. Mr. Stazić, paragraph 6, reads: "he defames or insults the president or other MPs" and you yourself said that it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it is his opinion. So I will speak to Mr. Stazic, and I have the right to an opinion, which is that the Croatian Democratic Community marks 14 years of its existence. It is a historic Croatian party in the Croatian people and will remain historical unlike his 72-year-old party and his party's history is well known to us all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3109	You're wrong, his party's history lasts 110 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3110	For 72 years, the Croatian people have taken possession of the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3111	Thank you very much, colleague Babic-Petrichevic. 110 years of celebrating this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3112	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3113	Now we move on to an entire avalanche of correcting incorrect allegations. The first in line is fellow Matusic again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3114	Mr. President, I will only limit myself to a few because time does not allow me to expand further. In fact, it is completely incorrect that the government has prescribed the law from the SDP Club because everyone who can read is clear that these proposals are different. That's quite clear. These others, indeed, were so incorrect that there was no point in correcting them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3115	A colleague, Stazic, was not talking about copying the law of the SDP Club, but of the HSP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3116	He was just talking about cheating.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3117	At SDP, he was talking about the second law, but not this law. My colleague, Glavas, has a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3118	Correction of the quote when Mr. Stazic explained why Tadiš couldn't. It's just not true. Mr. Tadic was not elected to the Committee for reasons why the opposition did not agree on joint candidates for the commission. The SDP and HSP proposed to Mrs Opacic and Mr Tadic. You were blackmailing if Mr. Tadic is not elected, Mrs. Opacic will not be inside. You ignored the right of the Croatian People's Party to run for office as well. Therefore, that is not true, it is true that you have tried to choose the composition of the commission by your standards and criteria and cannot impose the ruling majority of your will. I remind you that you lost the election in November last year, and that requires you to reconcile and respect the will, proposals and decisions of the parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3119	Thank you. It is time to correct the inaccuracies of Col. Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3120	I'm correcting Agent Stazic. Mr. Stazić, you have presented a series of false things in your presentation, you have not stuck to the subject, points, and in the end you have presented a series of insults, and it is a weekly insult to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3121	This is not about the correction, it's about the presentation of an opinion, so please, colleagues, please sign up for the debate next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3122	It doesn't matter, he didn't stick to it either.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3123	It is now time to correct the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague of Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3124	I am correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations regarding the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests because he said the public does not trust this Committee, he does not know it. The public has confidence in those who have proposed and voted the Commission, and this has been demonstrated by the latest results of the study of the governmental review, officials and the Prime Minister, the ruling party. Therefore, it does not violate the law or the Government when it appoints members of the Supervisory Board because it appoints them in companies of public interest and without compensation, which is permitted by Article 11(6). The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And I'm only correcting my dear colleague, Stazic, and I'm suggesting that we celebrate our 14th anniversary. We've already celebrated our 15th anniversary in a lot of municipalities and cities, so we celebrate them at night, we have time for work. And we're glad we even stepped on the 16th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3125	Thank you. It is now time to correct the quote of the esteemed colleague Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3126	Dear Mr. Vice President, I would only like to correct the wrong allegations in what Mr. Stazic said the government has stolen the proposals because I do not consider the date of reference sufficient argument to characterise one procedure but the content of the proposal itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3127	Thank you very much, dear colleague. It is my turn to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3128	I'd like to correct my colleague Stazic for presenting a lie about the health minister who has already repeatedly denied this thesis on radiological equipment of ownership and co-ownership, and I think it's incorrect that he has repeated the lie again today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3129	My colleague Stazic was not talking about the current health minister, but hypothetically if it were etc. It is now time to correct the incorrect quote of colleague Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, my colleague Stazic presented a whole series of incorrect allegations. I will refer only to the assumption that the bill introduces the commissioners in order to dilute the whole story. Coli Stazic is wrong because a law long in the procedure was passed by the majority at the end of the term of the parliament only at the end of the term of office of 7 October 2003 to prevent conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties are listed by the mayors and mayors. And in order not to be a divorce, on 7 October 1999, when the Croatian Democratic Community adopted by its majority the Law on Amendments and Obligations of Laws and Rights, the mayors and mayors were not. But in this bill, the mayors have been dropped. So now it's about the mayors coming back and the mayors and the mayors are being introduced. However, I would say politics is a moral job if it is done by moral people, so forgive me for this extreme supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3131	Thank you very much. It is now time for further discussion, dear colleague Milanka Opačić. Here you go. Excuse me, colleague Leko, is that right? But you were on the board, so you switched with your colleague. Excuse me, I've got a colleague named Opaci behind me. Comrade Opačić, here's your word. We've cleared up all our colleagues, don't worry. Here you go, fellow Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, namely, after almost 13 years of the multiparty system and a lot of attempts to bring to this House, to pass the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, here for the first time last year this law was adopted primarily because it was much easier in this House to prescribe rules of play for others, so for our citizens and it was much harder to prescribe the rules of the game for ourselves. I also agree with those who spoke before me that such a law had to be passed long before a very ugly one was removed, therefore, a qualification of politicians as an activity that is characterized in public as a job that is immoral, unfair, in which people can get rich overnight. Namely, those who have done so have their own name and name. And indeed, as my colleague Radoš said here in this House all these 13 years, there have been a lot of people who have done their job fairly and honestly only for the wages they have received here, without any additional income and no wealth. This law could only be passed in the past term with the consent of all members of the then ruling coalition. As a result, the amendment which subsequently became a sign that there is no conflict of interest among those who have 25% stakes in the company. What consistency and principle in politics are also saying today's changes to the laws that erase it from those who then proposed it. We then went on behalf of the SDP Club against the Government's amendments with our amendment that regulated things the way they regulate them both in the UK and in many Western European countries that have been dealing with them for years, resolving conflicts of interest, which is of course that no one gives up people who are good businessmen in the government's ranks. But regardless of the transfer of management rights, therefore, from their stakes to someone else, this company cannot participate in competitions for the tasks financed from the state budget. Unfortunately, the SDP Club amendment did not then receive support in this House. That is, therefore, something which is the only way to prevent conflict of interest. Therefore, not by transferring the management rights to another but by allowing the company not to participate in competitions financed from the state budget. Which means whoever decides to enter politics has to bear a part of the price for it and that means he stays only on the market. It should also be said that there are therefore many sanctions in this law for those in conflict of interest, however, in all Western European countries, which for years, have experience in this area should be said that there are no effective sanctions in terms of monetary sanctions against politicians. The only effective sanction is actually a conviction to the public. Condemning the public means that you will have a very difficult time going through the next election, condemnation to the public in many countries means the end of your political career. In Croatia, this means that one part of such people who were shown by the media that they were in conflict of interest are no longer in active politics, so that cost them political careers, but there are still very live politicians who have been and are still in conflict of interest. It was a good opportunity for this Parliament to return more confidential policies as a business to us politicians and to return the dignity to the Croatian Assembly, not least, that the projects of opposition parties will be stopped and give an opportunity to discuss key points and also political adjudications in this House. But in such a way as to prevent conflicts of interest, the Commission can choose in a completely different way than it is chosen and therefore choose a commission that would not be the bristle commission but would be a commission in its full composition. So in this way, this Parliament has had the opportunity to break off this way of working until now to restore the Croatian public's trust and integrity to this Croatian Parliament, so trust in politics and politicians. The law on conflict of interest is a kind of catalogue of what represents a good behaviour of politicians, a catalog who helps a politician to know what a conflict of interest is, to where the snow goes to where its limits are when he does not enter the conflict of interest. A catalogue that is good for the Croatian public who also has a very clear way of showing what conflict of interest means and when a politician is in conflict with the interiors. And therefore, a catalogue where the entire Croatian public would, with politicians, mean "stupo" is an acceptance and what is unacceptable is the behaviour of politicians. What about the whole story may well be that in the Croatian public, however, the media has reached a certain level and regardless of this commission, as my colleague Stazic said, who may sooner be a committee to cover up conflicts of interest, thanks to the Croatian public thanks to Croatian journalists and their work, no conflict of interest will remain hidden, everyone will see the light of day, in Croatian media. And the public will be about them if nothing else is that informed. And in the end, I'm going to use this debate to say something else because there was no possibility that by answering my colleague Glavas, he's already second or third time reminding us that we've lost voice on November 23rd. A fellow Glavas gets power means to solve citizens' problems rather than exercise political force.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3133	Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Branimir Glavas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3134	The political force of the Croatian Democratic Union does not implement. We also proved this in yesterday's proposal to elect outside members of the Committee. Like the first Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Among the 6 members, the Croatian Democratic Community proposed the 2nd one proposed by the SDP, one proposed by the HSS, one proposed by the HSPe, and one proposed by the Faculty of Law. It's not a political force. It is the maximum understanding and respect of the proposals of different political options. And the political force was spent by you, during the past 4 years of the prognostics and the Croatian Democratic Community's disabling to participate in the work as an opposition at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3135	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention for a moment? Hina confirmed that Macedonian President Boris Trajkovi died in the crash of his plane this morning. So on Thursday, he collapsed at Stolac in eastern Herzegovina. That rescue teams found the remains of the Macedonian government's aircraft and that no one survived the accident. According to unconfirmed information, his adviser Ginka Ivkova Boskovic was with three other members of his office. And it is assumed that due to the bad weather, the plane hit Mount Hrgut between Stoc and Ljubinj lost contact with the air control shortly after 8 hours. I would like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to extend our condolences to President Trajkovski's family, to the people of the country and to the Republic of Macedonia for a minute of silence. Dear Representative Joseph Leko, go ahead. [[One minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3136	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present my opinion on the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the prevention of interest which is on the agenda and debate in this House. I want to make it clear in the introduction right now that I consider the law to be an alibi. Why? Because he's trying to say that as of today, everything will be clear what conflict of interest is and what isn't. Because it will be appointed a commission to assess conflicts of interest which is neither independent. So we are sending citizens an illusion of another illusion that as of today, the Croatian Parliament has the basis to very precisely determine anything it is a conflict of interest. And what and what this bill solves. It doesn't solve anything. It doesn't solve anything. He's trying to determine what an ex-lege is under the law of conflict of interest. Well, that's the easiest thing for my people to determine, so it wasn't a dispute until now. But what's the commission's job? That, depending on the circumstances, the official of the state has disregarded the general interest and worked for the benefit of individual private or group private interests beyond the law or morals. why is the illusion, because we have finished or eventually brought the conversion in Croatian way, and we are now determining whether someone who has 30% share can perform a duty and we have never determined how they have become the property of 100 million kuna shares. So what illusion do we send to the citizens? Well, overnight in Croatia, they became richer owners than in the Western countries they worked for, like, 100 years. Well, we all know that, so the citizens know that. So whether or not the conflict of interest will speak up as well. Well, the power schedule is out. And now we're not naming an independent commission. But we're conducting most of it and it's working to control the government. Well, it's not possible that citizens don't recognize it. Why was there not a 12-year conflict of interest law just passed the coalition government with huge compromises, as the coalition itself managed to pass and propose the adoption of a conflict of interest law. Of course, it does not meet the needs, because the conflict of interest ex-lege under the law was not disputed before or will be disputed in the future, but if we fail to observe privatisation in a Croatian way through a conflict of interest, let us not fail to observe the construction of the Republic of Croatia or how the HDZ says the start of Croatia to observe how conflict of interest is realised or how no conflict of interest is prevented. I must point out that the issue of conflict of interest is really on human activity, on the commission. The Commission, depending on the circumstances of each case, must determine whether the common interest and the law are affected. If at the beginning of the appointment of members of the commission we enter the stage when the position of those who are in power determine who will be in that commission then I will not doubt it, but I must say that the citizens want to doubt whether this commission is able to assess, whether it is independent, whether it will receive all the information, facts available to determine whether any member or any of the government officials really respect the common interest or whether it is about favouring private and individual interest. My suggestion, my request would be to drop the law without consensus. We won't solve the problem, and the citizens expect it to be solved. This does not contribute to any politician, to any government, to any government, unless the law is passed by consensus. We'll send a big illusion to the citizens and I'm afraid the next election will be difficult to show whose hands are clean and what kind of card it is unnecessary to show. I want to point out one more time. Twelve years of Croatia's independent state did not exist in the Law on combating conflicts of interest. All privatisations and all conversions have been made, the schedule has been completed and we do not yet have an independent commission to control how the allocated capital will affect state officials both the government and ministers and the ministries and the Parliament. The conflict of interest, of course, is not easy to discover, it is not easy to assess, it is more important to give confidence to those who are not related to any political option for any government or government. As we have set out that only the position of members of the commission will not benefit either the Government or the Government, but also the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, so I am against this law and this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3137	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Leko said that only the position determines the members of the commission which is not true because the entire Croatian Parliament chooses the commission, and two mandates are left in the opposition committee if agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3139	Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3140	Mr. President, thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues may at first look at this law, that is, the amendments to this law and the additions we are discussing today do not seem so important. I think that, above all, we representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as all other state officials of crucial interest would be given a good law that clearly and transparently will also prevent conflicts of interest, but also in some ways help to improve the image of politicians in public. I am a representative of the more difficult since we pass laws, since we act as we act, that we are, in fact, the most to blame ourselves for how we are perceived by the Croatian public. I think with a little effort and a little will we could actually contribute to that perception in public change. Let's say the same thing when I listen here in the House to some MPs complaining that the legislative authority, that is, this House, is marginalized by the executive power, how we got less money or more money doesn't matter at all. In fact, it is forgotten that we here in these benches are those who make decisions and we have the final word. So we as advocates have no right to, say, complain about that thing. It's the same thing Mr. Glavas says, because it actually contributes to our picture, that HDZ won the election. Well, nobody slows it down. No one argues that HDZ, along with its coalition partners, has received authority and informed the government, but reacts when it is said to be carrying out parliamentary violence. It's having a good time, because you know why. Getting power in the elections does not mean breaking the laws and does not mean breaking the Rules of Procedure. Because if that were the case, then last night I would get information from the SDP club why it was given a break to wait for coalition partners to be able to vote on the outside members of the commission and break the Rules of Procedure when a representative of the club, or my little one, is actually looking for a break. It's called parliamentary violence. And therefore, in this part of the law and part of this law, it's very important that we put things right and maybe it would be better if we didn't rush this law and I think it's conceptually wrong. I think it would be enough for us to at least start here in this assembly to say the following. We give professional services orders to publish all our property cards on the Internet and that parliamentary representatives are responsible for updating these cards. That would be the most transparent. 80% of the work and the problem that solves this law would be solved. So it's really impossible for colleagues to speak, instead of seeking to reduce the number of officials we've increased them by this law and now you're going to say that in the same position is the minister who sets out and decides that 3 billion kunas will go or some municipal chief who has 400-450 kunas. It's actually crazy, and here I think this law is conjectureally wrong. I think we should take a stand for the next one. I mean, it's kind of like this law could work out a little bit and make a difference, but it would have to go to a new law. The question of this committee itself, that's enough of that. We actually made that commission the following. We made some kind of police team, because that's where he tells them they're going to investigate. What 4-5 MPs and 3-4 outside members of the dignitaries should be investigating whether I paid for the car so much, or because I was the minister getting 10% or 20% discount, that's insane. In my view, this Law should first of all play a role, in fact, to show the public in a transparent way whether we are in conflict of interest, whether we are acting as we should not, normally according to the proposition that this Law prescribes. Let's say that I also saw that you can have a criminal application for abuse of position, it doesn't necessarily mean anything can be rejected but let's say it doesn't stand to be reported, but at the same time, the commission has a role to play in investigating. The point would be to leave it to civil society, NGOs, after all, and only the commission could be in conflict of interest, I wrote to Mr. President of the Parliament about it, let's say I can't imagine that the Committee of the Justice Department is following someone from the Justice Department, because unfortunately, or fortunately, two top criminal law experts are working for the Justice Department while sitting in the commission. Even those two in my opinion are in conflict of interest because they're each other's boss, so it's not two votes, it's one vote. But I wouldn't go any further than that. So, I plead that the concept of approach to a different law, and if that is not the case, at least we will try for ourselves, at least we of the SDP, and I believe a good part of the other colleagues, that at least then we will try to make this Code as good as possible for the amendments. I know it's going to be very difficult, but we're going to have to listen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3141	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. Excuse me, my colleague has two corrections to an incorrect quote. Representative Branimir Glavas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3142	I am giving up on the SDP's parliamentary violence the second time and parliamentary unculture the second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3143	Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. What? Just a minute. Injury of the Rules of Procedure has an advantage. Here you go, colleague Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3144	Well, I don't really understand what this was now, which article, what I said wrong, I didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3145	Your incorrect quote has not been corrected. Now you're up to say you don't understand, there's no tile for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3146	My colleague, Glavas, did not correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3147	Dear Representative Drazen Bošnjaković corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3148	A colleague said there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure here and that some decisions were actually made by violating the Rules of Procedure. I would say that it is not true and the fact is that some decisions have been made in a way that has no consensus, however, they have been made by a majority by the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament and they are completely business orderly. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3149	Here you go, fellow Capraljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3150	Thank you. Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. He's in a very difficult situation because I represent him as acting president of the commission, so it's pretty hard for me to speak without speaking impartially. I find it particularly difficult to listen to these accusations that go into the account of a commission that I do not think for a moment, and I do not consider anything justified, because so far the Commission has all its obligations to be carried out. We are within 30 days if we were to bring the Rules of Procedure, we adopted the Rules of Procedure yesterday or the Rules of Procedure and procedure so that the first step was made. What went directly on me as a person and I find it quite offensive, it was that some colleagues here were moral and then it turns out that I who I was chosen wasn't moral. I want to prove it by my work in the Committee. And only when I don't work well in the Committee do I allow everyone to call me and say I'm not immoral. So much for the morality of the commission. I would return to my election and repeat now and never again, the HNS as the third party in parliament and as another party in the opposition he felt he had the right to one member and we got it. Now let me go back to what we as the Committee have already pointed to the Government and today it has proved here that there has been a violation of the law. It is. The government needed us, we decided at the 2nd session to warn all those covered by the Law to deliver to us certain things prescribed by law. Thus, the government should have made a decision on what companies are of particular national interest and should have let it into the procedure in the Assembly. The government also had to adopt a regulation on the availability of gifts, we called it gifts otherwise that name is quite long, and the government didn't bring it. However, since I know in which way we are appointed, when we start working and how late we are in the whole procedure I do not want to consider it an obstruction at all but I believe that this law which is now in the procedure, I am only sorry that it does not go into emergency procedure because it would far more speed up everything we need to do, I believe that the Government can make this change and correct it. And there are a lot of things that we, as a committee, have already seen in our work and in the making of the Rules of Procedure as shortcomings in the Law. That is, I would ask a question of sports activity because the Law included scientific, teaching, cultural activity, no sporting activity, so let's say Mr. Mirko Filipović, so let's say Mr. Lino Cervar would not be entitled to any compensation for what they do and what they do, so Mr. Filipovic would fight in Japan for nothing but I won't tell him that, I'm afraid. Then, the question arises, and Mr. Lucin said this well, the conflict of interest of our external members is being raised, but also if the issue of conflict of interest of our external members is being raised, then the question of conflict of their immunity is also being raised. Because by voting at these sessions, they can say for their vote and for their actions on the Committee, they can be accused of slander. So the question arises and their immunity. As far as these other items are concerned, I fully agree that they should be changed, only I am truly afraid because I know how many applications we have received so far, not reporting someone that is in conflict of interest, but the application of people who want to hand over their property cards and have no one, and neither can we until the Rules of Procedure comes into force and will enter into force 8 days after publication in the National Journal, and then there will be forms that will allow them to apply. I'm afraid of this huge amount of material that's gonna come to us so we don't. Bulgarian syndrome when they were covered by a huge number of applications under the law. Fortunately, we still have no application but we have the demands of certain officials to be questioned and to give an opinion on whether they are in conflict of interest. As far as the public's belief is concerned, by some studies, 10% of people believe that the commission will begin to work. 90% of people don't trust the commission. I want to say that I, as well as the other members as far as I have seen it in the commission, want this commission to live, and I believe that in this direction we will also have the understanding of the Government as well as the understanding of the Parliament. And I hope that, for our work under Article 17, paragraph 7 of the Labour Fund will be provided in the 2004 Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3151	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3152	Thank you... adopt or do not adopt laws that are best and best suited to the needs of one state and one society. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]] We at the SDP Club believe that a whole new law should be passed, but I am not personally deluded and I am not living in the illusions that this law will not be made new, but the will of the parliamentary majority will obviously pass the Law on a proposal from the Government. I'll try a few sentences, maybe point out some things that could possibly improve the legal text until the second reading. The unquestionable fact is that, I would like to get from the representatives of the proposings here, the Secretary of State to explain to us what reasons are other than possibly political and some hasty that the Government has so far not adopted in accordance with the legal provisions of the list of companies that are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia or the aim was to quickly gain control of such companies and possibly change the administration in them. It seems to me that it would be much more quality and better if, in accordance with the law, it had been proposed by the Parliament and adopted, of course, by the companies. It's not a dispute, and I don't think there's a single reason why it hasn't been done and proposed to us in the Ministry of Economy. I would like to encourage this debate, and I personally think it is okay that the representatives of regional self-government are here, too, on this list, because it is quite safe if the mayors and the mayors are that then the mayors and their deputies may also be in conflict of interest. I would suggest that it would not go in a way towards the Commission that, as there is a legitimate fear of being covered by too many requests, so that regional and local self-government individuals can legally be legally obliged to have them, as well as certain regulations, rules of procedure, conclusions or any other rules of conduct established for their local levels. Let's not forget, except at the state level, it's absolutely certain that there's a conflict of interest coming and at the local level they wanted me to admit it or not. We are not saying anything here, and the predecessors have also pointed to state-owned public-owned administrations, however, it is certain that a major conflict of interest can potentially occur in public-owned enterprises, in cities and municipalities, as well as in the counties that such companies have. It seems to me that we are knowingly or unconsciously bypassing such a problem and that we should also further regulate it. I was also asked as other MPs in the area of the Varazdin County was sent, a letter was sent to the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest but it seems to me that this more falls under the discussion of the amendments and additions of this Law and in the original interpretation of this Law to get some interpretations here I will be free to read about what it is. In the transitional and final provisions of the existing Act, which we are now discussing in Article 21, paragraph 3 states that a series of legal provisions will be applied appropriately to all persons acting in public responsibilities. I think it would be very significant to get here to the end of the clear and precise interpretation that these are other persons who are acting in public responsibilities. This is where we now get... which are according to the law itself, however, it seems to me that it is a wider circle than what is said here and how the law will of course apply to them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The mayors and mayors also had a legal bond, obligations as well as the other officials referred to in Article 2 of the existing Law submitted a report on their property and everything else prescribed in Article 7. The law. Here is what counterpart Kapraljevic said was that they had adopted the rules of procedure under which they should give it, but now it is a matter for mayors and mayors who were elected to the elections in May 2001. They certainly cannot satisfy the form that it is 30 days from the entry into service and it is quite clear that clear and precise instructions should be made about it. In particular, I would like to stress that the question of the provisions of the law on MPs in the Croatian Parliament is at the same time either the mayors or the mayors. In what way would I ask a precise interpretation here when we are addressed by the president of the proposings, in which way will the provisions of Articles 9 and 10(1) apply? Despite the fact that the mayors and mayors are possibly and representatives they are, it is prescribed by law, but other laws have the right or the possibility to receive compensation for the exercise of the principal or mayoral duties. It is undeniable that the law, by law on the rights of state officials, they would not have it, but it is a colorful situation. Here we have an example in Varazdin County that the Varazdin Mayor, who is also a representative of the Croatian Parliament, receives this fee neatly. I think it should be made clear that this is not only about conflict of interest but also about non-compliance with certain legal norms, and I think it should be given due to the wider Croatian public precise interpretation of what it is. Just in the end, I would pray, I read so that I might get an interpretation that it was probably a kind of gift, read in a daily newspaper on Monday that some, some state official, a state official, would be more specific and some local officials from the Varazdin County area were preparing on their way to Canada. And all of this would be nice and wonderful if these gentlemen didn't go to the expense of companies or companies from abroad that receive them but in return we already know that because of the opening of new jobs and everything else they would ask local self-government units to give them free land to open jobs to give them free infrastructure. I'd like to hear here from the proposer's representative is that and in what way is the conflict of interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3153	Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3154	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have spoken here many times in the Parliament about politicians and government duties, officials, and I think that today we actually need to send a message to the public that it is we who have to talk about us and in a critical way, and even when we may be unfairly accused of some things, but there is reason that a normized part of what is related to our activity, and what brings some citizens in doubt that there are dishonest, immoral and I don't know all of the actions. I would very much agree with the first part of my colleague Jose Lek's discussion, who mentioned both the conversion and after the transformation that went through, which in my opinion was largely in conflict with the interests of the citizens, it is difficult to speak with the interests of the people now and to say so to these partial conflicts of interest when one, such a huge conflict occurred with the interests of the largest part of Croatia's citizens. I think there can really be talked about one quantity then and policy hypocrites and something like that. There is a famous Hungarian director, Miklos Janca, who is called "The Virtues of Public, Vice Secrets". I think we should just pass the law, and I agree with all those who think it should be brought by consensus, that there are no doubts that there are public virtues, so virtues, and vice secrets. To end this discrimination between public and private spheres among those who are public employees, and therefore I think that our privacy must be exposed to much more public insight than others so-called. ordinary citizens. And that's why I'm here for everything to be white, obviously how it's said transparently. I think it's a morale dichotomy if there's one thing to do. and that we should be the ones to initiate that not only does it, but that if there is to be a disclosure to become public and that these people who are dealing with honorable business what policy or honorable work should be done by government officials, I would say less rights to certain types of mistakes, than those who deal with certain other affairs, no matter how important and also honorable. That's why I think the Croatian Parliament should sensitize the public for that. But we also need to defend our position when sometimes we attack for no reason, and there have been a lot of stories about not telling you about us who do not live in Zagreb, and we have to travel to Zagreb. Well, tons of paper are printed, and I don't know what's not said about how much we spend traveling, and we even sleep even in bed, so it was in hotels, and now I don't know some garages, it doesn't matter. But we must agree that politics also cost, that democracy costs even when it's not in conflict with morality, nor with laws that shouldn't be questioned. One more thing I would say is that the greatest defeat of us politicians is regardless of political options, regardless of which political party we belong, when the people punish us by not going to the elections. I think we need to show that we are not some foreign government, all of us here together and as a legislative authority, that we are not something else and separate from that people, from the citizens of Croatia and that right here we represent their interests, not our selfish partial or narrow party interests. If they recognize it they will be going out, they will go to elections thinking they are doing a useful job voting for one of us or for one of the political options. If they do not go to the elections, they will make it clear that they do not believe that we represent general or national interests, but that we represent our own selfish interests. As much as I think we're all here together on the same mission, to defend the integrity of politics, and so is our profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3155	Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3156	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Let me, with some of my thoughts, contribute to this debate, discuss the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. So let me start by saying that it seems to me that unfortunately, today in this House there seems to be a kind of oblivion when it comes to this law. Because this is only about amendments and additions to the Law, which the former government passed, the former assembly of the Parliament in October last year. So it seems really strange to me that from the ranks of the SDP that proposed this law, the opposite qualifications and evaluations of the articles of this law are coming today. So we could hear from MP Opačić how it is, as it agrees, that it should have been passed significantly before this law. And it would be really interesting to hear, who prevented them, who prevented that law from being passed at the beginning of their reign, or just after January 3, 2000? It would also be interesting to hear from Mr. Stazic, which prevented him from in his ranks, in line with his party's election to keep the commissioners out of the bill they passed. I also don't understand how Mr. Lucin, who was a prominent SDP official, did not fight not to be as he said it, not the smart composition of the commission, but to be a smart composition of the commission. Also, these are all, moments that point to the fact that, in part of our Parliament, governments are very forgetful, and forgetful that those who speak and propose the law, the basic text of the law, and we today have something else before us, we have a proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements, and this bill clearly indicates that there is a good will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the head of the new President Dr. Sanader, that as far as possible to improve this law and bring it into line with real life. Of course, it's very difficult to pass one such law and that it certainly won't be able to ultimately cover all the phenomena of conflicts of interest that are possible in real life, and I'm not sure how much it can cover the phenomenon of conflict of interest as it was, for example, I'm going to give a clear example, as I believe it was, and what we could read from the media, and conflict of interest in the Viktor Lenac case. In fact, in the media, we could read that thanks exclusively to the friendship of the leading man Viktor Lenco, Mr. Supreme with the then Prime Minister, Mr. Racan, one large amount in millions of dollars was given to the same company, and that, at the same time, the company that was privately owned helped it with the really large million dollar amounts, and that at the same time the shipbuilding on Korčula was thrown into bankruptcy. Because if only with 10% of the amount given to Viktor Lenc helped the shipyards in Korcula, today these shipyards would be very lively, very active, and would be highly competitive and not say all the further how important only one small piece would be and the assistance that was directed to Viktor Lenc, and without ultimately there was no good result, unfortunately, because we all know how, how it ended. This evaporated as a drop of water on the hot plate that million-dollar aid, unfortunately, and we are still not to go any further into those stories about how at that moment, in this privatised company, the President of the Board Mr. Supreme had a salary of a hundred and a few thousand kunas and the poor man reduced after that state aid after the pressure of the public, so the poor man reduced somewhere to the amounts that the parliamentary deputies receive today. Another obvious example of conflict of interest which I do not know will be covered by this law but I would like it to be said when the Hotel "Excelsior" was sold, then only thanks to the friendship of the new owner, the current owner of Mr. Štrok with the Deputy Prime Minister of the time, Mr. Linic, the hotel was sold contrary to the position of the parent ministry, so the tourism ministry and its then minister, Ms. Župan-Ruskovic, that it was not the best offer for the hotel. Of course, it would be difficult to expect that the Assembly in which the SDP ruled would decide at the time, and to establish an investigative commission in this case, but of course it was unreserved but that such cases would not be repeated, that this practice would indeed not be repeated, is indeed on all of these officials who are here in this proposal of the law listed that they themselves inaugurated other practice, other behavior, and then we may not need such a law, because it is indeed going on today from the assumption that at least part of the conflict of interest is happening at all levels, which I think is not good and that there is a reason to ask the question of what trust of the Croatian public in those who exercise these duties. Allow me now to make a brief suggestion and make my remarks regarding Article 34(2), paragraph 1, and concerning the mayors and mayors, and I think there is no reason if they are already there and if they remain there not to be there and the deputy mayors, especially those who professionally carry out their duties because there is no reason that those who actually perform the same kind of duty are not also present there. Here, as far as mayors and deputy mayors are concerned, the law was obviously very quickly prepared, so they're probably dropped, which doesn't exactly talk about the good preparation of the law that was passed as I said in the last session because it's really unimaginable that the level of the official was not covered and that the mayors and mayors were put in place. So, here I would ask the Proposer to consider this observation regarding the deputy and mayor if they... remain in this proposal, Commissioners and Mayors. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3157	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3158	Thank you, Mr. President. The esteemed representative has expressed the inaccuracy that the SDP has proposed this law. It is true, fellow MPs, that the SDP was the initiator of passing such a law when there were not many cases or in the coalition government and at least in the opposition and that most thanks to the SDP, this law was passed but it is nevertheless the result of a compromise in the coalition government and should be said openly. And if you'd given the HDZ amendments, we'd be all in favor of that. Therefore, it is not true that in the ranks of the SDP there is oblivion, but that you are ruled by ignorance or indifference but in any case by ignoring.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3159	Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3160	Thank you very much. Here, I'll use the introductory part to replicate the work of a colleague before I use the institute of replicas. I would like to say that we did not pass the law at the beginning of the mandate but we did bring it anyway, but HDZ in ten years did not pass such a law, it did not occur to him to pass such a law because the HDZ policy was that the conflict of interest in Croatia made 200 families rich, so we also had an example that a family with as many as 200 companies became a random coincidence. And now I'd like to move on to the discussion of the law itself. Therefore, no law on preventing conflicts of interest in any country will fulfil the role of rooting out conflict of interest or corruption in society. This is what we are witnessing today in the countries of the European Union, because we are currently conducting judicial proceedings on the conflict of interest of a mayor and parliamentary representative of a large city of a large European country. He's being prosecuted and he's being prosecuted. What's the point of the law? The aim of the law is that if someone abuses his authority or position is punishable for it criminally or criminally, he will be punished by some other laws, because if someone abuses his authority or position to provide himself with unlawful benefit, then he must be prosecuted in a criminal or criminal manner. So that's not the point of this law. In fact, this law seeks to do political harm to public officials, those who abuse their duty, who use it for personal breakthroughs and do not meet the needs of citizens and solve their problems. I therefore consider this law necessary. It's a good thing he was brought in no matter what time, but then we got him. I believe that it should be improved and I believe that this is not the last change but that, as parliamentary democracy matures, we will first and foremost, as the public in Croatia will grow even more into this law. I see this law more as a kind of ethical code of honor for the conduct of public functions in Croatia. I therefore advocate that the more clearly we define the conditions under which these public functions in Croatia can be acted also because the profession of politicians is seriously disrupted. Politicians don't trust each other the most in this country. This law and the definition of this law of the conditions under which a person can deal with politics and conduct a public duty could contribute to raising the reputation of our profession by work, but also by this law we will not solve what is his purpose, which is that whoever is engaged in imprecisely carrying out public duties to be given such political damage that no one can gain the trust of the citizens anymore, not because he has indeed done it, but because the citizens will be so aware that they will no longer vote for him in the future elections. When we do, then we won't need this law anymore. So this law should affect the strengthening and raising of the maturity of the Croatian public. What I would like to send a message to the applicants is that it is certainly out of this law that local officials, or leaders of units of local, regional and regional self-government. This law was written for state officials, and then someone mistakenly assumed that when it was passed with an amendment he had inserted into them mayors and municipal chiefs. It is evident that it was a mistake because the mayors were forgotten and because those elected in the same way as elected mayors and chiefs were forgotten, so their deputies. He's inconclusive for mayors, mayors and municipal chiefs and I'll try to mention a few arguments about it. In which I advocate the adoption of a law or rules of conduct at local and regional regional level. But that law must be such that it is applicable and enforceable. This law is inapplicable and inadmissible for the mayors, mayors and mayors, or their deputies. One option, out of the possibility of not implementing it, is that these officials should not at this time receive any more, receiving from their municipal, urban and county budgets because they have not delivered their cards to the commission. So, at this point, they're absolutely certainly breaking the law at this point and by two basics. One because they did not deliver the cards to the Commission and the other because they were paid compensations and failed to meet this prior condition. And what happens to the commission when 1500 mayors, mayors, deputy mayors, mayors, deputies deliver property cards? Whether it is just to delay, archive into some registrar or really want to check the accuracy of that data. What will happen when the commission is buried with possible false applications to check conflicts of interest in all of the major units of local self-government that we have in Croatia? Secondly, this law is really... for what we once called state officials and cannot be applied to local officials throughout the entire part of our text. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As is the question of pay and the definition of salary for the performance of that duty. Because we're looking at a state official through the Prime Minister, President of the Parliament, a parliamentary representative. But we also have a captain whose small municipalities have a few tens or hundreds of thousands, or a hundred thousand kunas municipal budget. That man can't make a living under this law. Because he can't deal with anything, he can't be anywhere but dealing with a defacto policy and being a municipal chief. We have to make it possible until the state's reshuffle so that the municipal chiefs can do something about it. In addition, the question arises whether it is worse to have a 25% stake in a company whose core capital is 20 thousand kuna or 1000 hectares of the country. This law doesn't solve it. This law does not resolve the whole complex, therefore, of the large number of people on duty in local self-government units. Because this number is multiplied by a huge number of units, units of local self-government. Furthermore, Article 10 defines a little incompatibility of the conduct of certain duties as it raises the question whether the Municipal Council must give its consent to sit in this Chamber. Under this law, it would turn out that way. And this greatly violated something called local self - government autonomy. And I think by defining the position of the head of local and regional regional self-government, this law is actually a serious violation of the autonomy of local self-government units. Article 11 defines where officials cannot be. Well, they can't be board members or supervisory boards, companies. It can only be those that are state-owned. I note that none of the municipal companies, fortunately, are state-owned, but this means that it is impossible for any commissioner and his deputy to be on the supervisory board of the company. So the question is, how could a minister under these conditions be on the supervisory board of a state-owned company or assembly and would make it absolutely impossible for the mayor to do so. Furthermore, this law does not distinguish the different forms of companies such as the stock company and the limited liability company. Because in society limited liability of the Supervisory Board, unless they are formed under a special law, there is no. Which means that the mayor may be a member of the congregation, appoint a director, or directorship, to make plans and resolve administration, since the congregation may be a limited society of liability under this law. And the question arises whether the government will also define all the power of the local self-government units where it will allow municipal chiefs and mayors to have the status of other state officials who will be able to sit on supervisory boards and company administrations defined under this law. For example, the position that an official earns an income that is less than the salary of a duty he performs has the right to differ. So this all defines something for state officials which is absolutely incompatible with the status that the leaders of local self-government units have. One more sentence if I can. [[Agreement: Finish your colleague.]] At the end of the sanctions for breach of the provisions, the question arises as to how one mayor, mayor or chief of staff, who performs his duties as a volunteer, will be fined in cash under Article 5(5) of this Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3161	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Honorable representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3162	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed colleague has made a series of inaccuracies, so here is only in correction on 10 July 1998.The Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials where the list of officials is to prevent and eliminate conflicts of public and personal interest, conscientiously and responsibly, the transfer of the property card, must not be members of administrative, supervisory boards, companies and advisers are to be exceptionally allowed in scientific, school, cultural, sports and humanitarian councils without compensation. An ethical commission should be established, however, no consensus has been reached and this has not occurred. And about why the law was not passed in the previous meeting and how it was adopted in 2001 was launched by the HSP to pass the law of the Croatian Employers' Association in 2002, and in 2002 it was not passed, only on 5 March 2003, the HSP and the Croatian Government then launched the law procedure in order to pass the law on 5 September 2003. About how much someone wanted to pass the law or not, but the law existed and that it had stuck to it since July 10, 1998. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3163	A fellow Mršić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3164	Well, I don't know what my colleague Byte was correcting, so definitely the law wasn't passed, it was only passed at the end of last government's term. You've passed one different law, another law you've never even applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3165	Dude, you're not doing any damage to the Rules of Procedure, that's clear. My colleague byte corrected your incorrect allegations and then you have no right to treat it as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frana Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3166	It's almost excessive, but it's just to be said that it's a completely incorrect assumption that HDZ led a conflict of interest policy, it's completely incorrect but... It's too much for a colleague to fix it that way, because that's what it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3167	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3168	Well, it's a completely incorrect finding of Mr. MPs who said HDZ didn't want to pass such a law because he was just protecting 200 wealthy families. On the contrary. In the last term, in the previous meeting of the Assembly on the HDZ initiative, it was launched to finally establish these famous 200 wealthy families, but the government of which it was requested we could never get that list because the various reasons were that it was not published, and the real reasons were that in these 200 wealthy families there were more who were today in opposition and at that time were in power than you were about to say that there were 200 wealthy HDZ families. That's right. Your inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3169	The session of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports is scheduled for 13.30 a.m. at the club of representatives. Dear Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3170	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm just surprised by the debate we're talking about this law, we're talking about actually correcting incorrect allegations, we're talking about polemics. It's probably finally time for us to determine once the rules of the game. Declaratively, we all swear and take this law as we finally want to pass. But from the debate where we enter a period of some years ago, obviously it doesn't come out that we don't want to reach a consensus on it, I think it's necessary. We also focus too much on entrepreneurship. I will say that this is discrimination against entrepreneurs especially as regards these provisions of ownership, discrimination against owners. 25.01% had previously been a restriction in dealing with ownership this time has been deleted, and that actually means that we and 0.1% of ownership in a limited company or limited liability society will have to act in accordance with this law and at the same time choke the commission, and at the same time I do not know what effect it will give because it is generally known that someone with such a small amount of ownership can do nothing. We also have the absurdity that the mayors and mayors will eventually carry out agricultural activity or who the craftsmen will have to hand over to the lawyer to manage their bossship, so probably the lawyer will instead plow and manage that land, while the incomes that they achieve are very low. However, it is discrimination for entrepreneurs, but at the same time we have a bargain for some categories. I'll count those categories in Article 10. These are primarily those officials who can carry out scientific, teaching and cultural activities. I'd like to ask myself a question here, and so would you. Can an official have other than material and other benefits? I deeply believe that if I teach in college or any other institution that I have political benefits, because I speak to students. Several hundred students listen to what I tell them, and it is known that 90% of the officials are in some political parties. Also whether it is a political benefit to act as mayor and mayor. Is that even compatible with each other? I suggest that in the law we say it is inconclusive, not to concentrate whether it receives compensation or not, because also by doing one and the other business has an unequivocally political advantage because on behalf of the party and on its own behalf when it is at the head of the city, the county assembly or possibly the municipality. We also have discrimination in point 2 of Article 10, where we say that income can be obtained from patents, industrial ownership, which is unequivocally but also copyright. I'm asking you what copyrights are? It's actually a fee. We've had countless examples so far of how politicians have written books, how even the state has funded them, how we've gained, how copyrights have been acquired, and it probably wouldn't be good if we still had such provisions in this law. So I suggest that, apart from patents and rights that are somehow addressed to industrial property, we rule out copyright. If we allow officials to do so, to teach in colleges, at the same time act as mayors we also act on a poor employment policy simply because they block their jobs activities, make it impossible for young people to work because they are commoduplexes in some situations and we have ordinary and unusual officials. That's why I suggest we fully define these rules of the game. We can probably still reach a consensus on this, so I would also like to ask that we respect this, which is, of course, not in the polemics but in the creative and concrete proposals and try to give ourselves and others the rules of the game in which the public will judge whether or not we have passed a good law first and after we act in accordance with the law, or good customs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3171	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3172	Thank you, Mr. President. The meaning of the law that has been passed and all these changes should be precisely in the interest of citizens, but also in the interest of politics above all and in politicians. We often claim that politics is important, that it is not taken care of enough, and that is why it is very important to define one transparent relationship because politics is intruding into everyday life and in the fate of man at all levels, and the image that is created about our society really requires that it be re-examined. And therefore this way that one interest in the common good must be the subject of our tireless effort to advance things. That's why I would disagree with Madam Vice President Djurdjo Adlesic, who says we're dealing with ourselves again. These are important issues for citizens, but important policy issues if we really want to improve it and realize that it is a commitment to the common good. Indeed, there are people in politics as well as all other professions who put all their involvement, all their mental powers and physical powers into this particular commitment to the promotion and interest of public interest, for the public good. It is true that many of the affairs associated with some people, and sometimes with some prominent people or parties, cause accusations, cause suspicions, cause prejudices and generalizations, but just pointing out such things is not a distraction and negativity or disdainment of politics but exactly one correct way to improve things. So we really need to join forces here, let alone now who was even the promoter of how it happened, but if we want to show people that we really care, then we need to reach a consensus on how this behavior that we want to regulate here by changing the law is transparent. Sometimes citizens don’t understand, and sometimes we don’t understand what it is sometimes about, and even sometimes we serve or may happen to serve political disqualification that someone is in conflict of interest. Therefore, this bill must be improved and he does not speak of it, and no proposal on which behaviours are allowed and which are not. So only transparency from that can lead to not all conflict of interest, because when all conflict of interest it has no conflict of interest. Maybe that's what someone cares about. Therefore, the transpretence to determine really what these behaviors are. The SDPe advocated failed in the coalition to regulate such behaviour legally. And that's what's more equal to absolute professionalization. There have been questions here, so we don't want any poverty, but we need to understand that politics is not a privilege. Often, politics for some of the wealthy should no longer be used to maintain such status. She sometimes for no, for such persons must mean the sacrifice. But then they have to predicate, or business or politics. He can't do both. Therefore, we advocate absolute professionalization. As at the state level, it may also be necessary for other officials and deputies because they have all the land. Not only for government officials, but also for officials and deputies to have their own ethical code of conduct. Well, even this law is often not only the law of the leg, but it also speaks of those values that may not exist in other laws. That's how it should be understood that he's an ethical code of conduct. Also what is very important, that is, so the SDPe has stood up and will stand up for it. And that's if we want to create a picture then not only of politicians not falling into situations and government officials in situations where they will not face conflict of interest but must not be brought into a situation where they appear to be in a position of conflict of interest. And even when they're not. Because the perception of the public is very important. We therefore advocate that civil servants in no way be members of the board of directors and supervisors, anywhere. Or companies owned by a majority or absolute state. This is precisely the primary interest, if we want to restore citizens' trust. Sometimes it doesn't even matter whether they're paid or not, I mean, it's important. Therefore, to justify the opposite opinion or the post to retain even the existing situation by explaining that the state officials are the owner of the state and the state officials are interested in this, or that the company is doing well and so on. This is where professionals, who are paid for it and who are responsible for it. Because it's hard to explain to the public that a government official is sitting in a board of directors, whether he has a salary or not, that he's in the market and he doesn't have any money. And there's no macaro. But I'm saying, the point of the law is not only to prevent a conflict of interest but to not allow a politician to get into a situation where he will seem to be in conflict of interest at all. And if that's how we figure it out, I think the law is that we're going to improve it. It is very important that this amendment, proposed in the article almost all of these legislative proposals, that no government official should be such a owner, therefore, allowed a 25% limit. I think it's a good step, but it's not enough. So, you need to improve things in that sense. It is important to note that this law and must not be allowed to be reduced, not to be complemented by other criminal laws as an instrument in the fight against corruption, and in a certain way it must therefore represent not only an ethical code but also a reference to criminal legal norms. That's why the SDPe advocated, and unfortunately here it's been a long time since the government has come out with a dream proposal for a criminal law that we need so much not only to comply with certain standards protected by international law but also to do what we wanted to achieve, which is to extend the deadlines of limitations. Not sanctioned economic crime to prevent economic crime from being sanctioned by an extension. Not only old deadlines, but better incriminating. So here and now I can publish here the government seems to have formed only a group that will work on some so-called. Reminisce of criminal reform, we need maximum criminal reform. And in that sense, the European Community has just given high marks to Croatia when it was still thought that the criminal law novel would survive. I therefore propose that the promoter and how do you think about these things, which we in the SDP insist on. Because this is also an insufficient change. There were also suggestions to publish on the Internet everything government officials have. That's what it takes. That'd be good. But that's not enough. Because there's a danger of hiding property after all we still don't have an orderly record or property, the possibility of transfer is not just a closed circle or an interested person. But quite on some third-persons, it's very public and very familiar. Therefore, the intensity of this Law is to make transparent behaviours, to know exactly which behaviours are allowed and which are not. Because I'm saying, one fluidity and nontransparency creates a saying to the citizens that everything is a conflict of interest and then a day is nothing. And that's why I think one transparency in the definition of behavior is called, then we'll easily see which behaviors are not allowed. I think we need to reach a consensus on this, and there will be one success of the law, and policy affirmation or policy rehabilitation will nevertheless be established. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3173	Thank you. Correction of the irrevocable allegations by Vice-President Djurdja Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3174	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleague Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic probably didn't hear me, listened or wasn't in the hall. I didn't say that we only deal with ourselves, but I said that this whole day's debate on these two laws gives us the impression that we're only discussing wages and rights and not obligations, which is a pretty big difference compared to the interpretation of my colleague Ingrid. But I'm glad we agreed in that section that officials shouldn't be board members. I'm only sorry to think of that earlier, for example in Linic and the like.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3175	Replica respected representative Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I must say that in much of the debate with my colleague, Anticevic Marinović, I agreed. And that I agree with that part, and I believe that corruption is widespread in Croatia, but we don't know how much. that it interferes with business and that the impression of its expansion goes in according to the general erosion of morality in Croatian society. DA rejects foreign investors and so on. And that I think that's where we should start right from the clerk. And to curb policy and entrepreneurship, that's what we're supposed to do anyway. However, what is interesting and what is doing transparency as counterpart Antičević says, I would like to know as a member of the government in the past meeting to explain to us that there has been a change of opinion with my colleague now, because we know, and I would like to hear it from her, if the supervisory and management committees were ministers then Linic, Church, Cacic, Goran Granic and so on. I say in one part I agree and I'd say that for me, Croatianism is not only a national category but also a moral one. And it is unacceptable for Croatian officials to act tirelessly towards their own people, and to support the law that has been passed in this direction. And I agree in a big part with my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3177	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3178	The replica will be a lot of treasure because Mrs. Byte mostly agreed with me, and that's good especially about this p-rofesionalization. As the SDPe said, you made it possible or allowed Mr. Vice President Linic to be a member of the supervisory board, above all there was progress but I agree that it is not enough to be without any compensation. In addition, many of the laws that are being passed today oblige individual ministers to sit on boards and boards of directors, that is what we need to change and I have already explained. So that's how it came to be. And I was already initially responsible for correcting the incorrect allegations of fellow MPs from your ranks saying that this was exactly the compromise that the SDP had to do in the coalition government but the SDP has been claiming from the beginning that, whether it was state property or mostly or absolute property of the state, it was precisely for these reasons that I had previously spoken of that did not exactly be state officials and we have to make additional efforts because the benefits would be greater than possible damage if they were even more incompetent than any state official that we often consider to be irreplaceable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3179	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC's esteemed representative, Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. HSLS has now advocated the law in the last meeting, although when we passed the Law in the past, we announced that it would be necessary to change it and that the Law that we passed in the last meeting was not a quality law, that it was not a finished law, I do not need to remind that all laws that were incomplete, imperfect as if they were not laws. They are difficult to implement and they are difficult to implement, I am afraid, I am personally saying that this Law, with our amendments and additions today, will be difficult to implement, and I would say once again that we support the adoption of these amendments and the addition that this will practically be a law that will unnecessarily create a state of moral panic and totalitarianism towards public figures in society, with the fact that it is a law that will create a network, let me be allowed to express myself so that it will catch tiny fish that will be sprayed and the big fish will remain beyond that network and such a densely intertwined network of big fish will not be caught. It will only happen to us to explain to our public, who listens to us, that practically really disabled what I think is well spoken of by fellow Mršić that in some municipality or in a small place people will not be able to do their basic work, if they want to do, if they want to be what is often and honorable duty in smaller places the head of the municipality or something like that, but that at the same time it will be possible what happened unfortunately and in the former council to set up their wife as ambassador and there will be no conditions for it. This will continue to be possible, it will continue to be possible non-promoting employment will continue to be possible by similarity and will continue to be possible to advance without any criteria, but on the other hand, we will create an anti-enterprise climate well spoken about by fellow Pecek and will happen to us that all those who are entrepreneurs will not be able to deal with politics and that all those who are in politics will not be able in any way to show that they were good entrepreneurs. I don't think that's good, I think this law creates an anti-enterprise climate that usually appears somewhere in Croatian society, in public, and that practically big fish will come out of that network and a lot of small fish will get a lot of it, which is why we won't, in a moral sense, and in a social sense, change absolutely nothing in Croatian society. And I would therefore like to remind you that absolutely no one is talking today about existing mechanisms, ladies and gentlemen, all over Europe there is one unique and best mechanism on which it is possible to check what public persons are doing. It's a tax card mechanism at the end of the year, it's a property card mechanism and it's a tax administration check as much as you report and how much you get. It is a mechanism that works in Austria, Slovenia, in Germany it is a mechanism that should function in Croatia. When the tax administration will get our cards, and when the tax officer and inspector will be able to check what's inside and how long we're standing in the meantime it's going to be the only effective control mechanism for the public. And let's give authority to the tax administration, give more authority to encourage our inspections, when they go into the field and see if there's a gap and if there's a serious deviation from what we report and what we get then we'll be able to expose the public to the public, all the rest is actually, once again, I'm repeating the braiding of a network that won't make much sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3181	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the honourable representative Miroslav Korenik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3182	Mr Chehok incorrectly argues that in 2001 or those years HSLS advocated the adoption of such a law because precisely because of their disagreement in the coalition government, the Law was not passed and was withdrawn from the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3183	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3184	Mr. Korenika hurt Article 209 because he didn't correct any of my wrong allegations, it's not true that HSLS has obstructed, Mr. Korenika is otherwise a little more often used in fiction, so that's why...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3185	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar on behalf of the HNS LS PGS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3186	Thank you, Mr. President, my colleagues and colleagues, I didn't mean to call you at the end, but given the course of the debate, I have to express one thing that confused me quite a bit. Namely, the largest part of the debate and criticism on this Amendment and the addition of the Law was not on the proposed amendments and additions but on the Law which, if I am not mistaken, was passed about 5 months ago by the parliamentary majority. And given the criticism that goes to the existing text of the law, which neither the Government nor we have proposed to change, I am somewhat surprised and now I wonder if we have a desire to pass a law that will prevent conflict of interest in the conduct of public duties, as the Law is called or only for state officials. In fact, by requiring exceptions while at the same time talking about politicians but to stop the level or limit of politicians at the state level only and to seek exceptions to everything at regional and local level then means that in fact, the majority in this debate today sought the exclusive conflict of the interests of state officials rather than in the conduct of public duties. I can hardly accept that the mayors can't be in conflict, that the mayors can't be in conflict, so we have to decide whether this area will be regulated by the Law on State Officials and then really can't apply to the local and regional level or we'll continue to talk about preventing conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and not just the state level. I will not go to the second Bill of Law with exceptions because once the exemption is made in the final draft of the law after the third amendment in that Law there will be no one left. The only problem that has been seen well and which we will have to resolve is indeed among those community chiefs who are volunteering for their duty, do not receive the salary, and this situation will need in a legal sense a completely different solution to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3187	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3188	Well, I'll just fix Mr. Lesar for a little while. He said he thought it was impossible for mayors to be in conflict of interest or not in conflict of interest. We saw a dozen minutes ago that it's possible because the Koprivni mayor certainly didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3189	Thank you and final consideration of Secretary of State Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of state and public duties is an honorable and responsible activity and the vast majority of Croatian state officials and officials at the local level do their duty exactly as they should. However, it is the will of the Croatian government to raise the dignity of state and local officials and even the instruments envisioned by this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. The government expected Parliament's great interest in amending this Law and therefore sent the Law to first reading, in the ordinary procedure so that, when drawing up the final draft of the law, it could install a large majority of the observations it considers acceptable. I'm personally glad we discussed this for so long. We have certainly crossed the scope of the amendments to this Law and it is obvious that in the final draft of the law we will have to intervene in a number of articles of the law that are now in force. I wouldn't open up a controversy with discussions. We will carefully study the phonogram and what we accept will be incorporated into the text, which we accept will be explained by the reasons why we do not accept but I also have to respond to some allegations that the Government has prescribed the Law. Clearly, the government had a vision of how to settle this issue and there was no need to rewrite the law. We cannot accept the thesis that the mayors and municipal chiefs, the mayors and the subjugation would be exempt from this Law because, and that it would refer only to state officials. You, in the hierarchy of state officials, have people who are in their position, but they have no contact with the cost of public funds, nor can they please anything. For example, this Law would apply to the Deputy Secretary of State in the Central Office for I of Croatia, and the entire office has a budget of 2 million kuna, and according to the proposal they heard today would not apply to the Mayor of Zagreb, and the budget of Zagreb is huge. The county budgets are also large and all major cities. But there is something very important to point out, and I must say, now it is the government's position. The government discussed one issue of the application of this Law because it tried, trying to interpret it in order to stop the appointment of members of supervisory committees or boards there in commercial societies where the state has a majority. It's a very unusual interpretation of the team more as they are and now where no state officials once served as ministers are now MPs and the question is if the law was interpreted as to what would happen. Would the administrations of these public companies where public undertakings or state-owned companies actually be left unsupervised. Of course the government doesn't interpret the law that way. The government interprets it as it says. In the transitional provisions, it states that the provisions of the article are so listed between the other and Article 11 of this Act will apply at the end of the period of 4 months from the date of entry into force of this Act, which means that only after the expiry of the period of 4 months will the Croatian Parliament, on a proposal from the Government, establish companies which are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The government's making a list, she'll deliver it. I believe that the former government has interpreted these provisions in this way because otherwise she would have referred to the procedure within two months of the entry into force of the law that list. It's very simple to do, it's twenty, thirty companies we actually know are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. So we can't accept the thesis that appointments aren't possible or that they're illegal. We claim that they are based on the Law and that, in fact, by carefully reading the transitional provisions, the Parliament could not determine which companies were of state interest. Here is what I propose to support the adoption of this Law, which, which I have no doubt, is because the vast majority of MPs are in favour of it and that the proposer be in charge of considering the comments and proposals made on this Law by the next reading. We won't object if you charge us to deliver a list of these companies by the next session of the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3191	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. In the afternoon, after a break that would now be taken with the proposed and established agenda order. It would therefore be the Laws on the transfer of power, on the rights and obligations of state officials, and if the Committee had completed on that memorandum between Croatia and the US on intellectual property. In the afternoon, I would also include the agenda under emergency procedure 5, in fact one set of laws that have come from the Government, which are currently distributed into boxes, which you have not yet received but in the meantime during this break, which will come into the boxes relating to the Budget, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Railways, Amendments to the Law on Income Tax, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance, Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Change of the Law on the Cost of Health Protection, Final Proposal for a Law on the Amendment of the Law on Medical Insurance and the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendment to the Law on Labour, Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Child leave of Mothers, which carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and the Proposal for a decision on the maintenance of military exercise of members of the Croatian Armed Forces during the 2004. Please raise these bill proposals in the boxes so that we can put them on the agenda in the afternoon. I'd say one more thing. I'm up to Article 32. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament must worry about fulfilling the rights and obligations of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. This includes applications for “Current morning”. Today in Vjesnik, an article says that I personally took a list of representatives who applied for the “Current morning” on Friday at the entrance to the Grand Council, and that I personally took it to the representatives of Miroslav Rožić. I wasn't in the assembly at the time, I didn't take it personally, I didn't have any part in it. Well, please such, I am obliged to say so, because it is part of a permanent procedure which wants to be devastated and devalued both the roles of the Croatian Parliament and me as president of the Parliament. Thank you very much. We'll continue the session at 15.00 hours. It's a meeting at 13.22 p.m. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties. That was the first reading, P.Z. Number 14. The proposed law is the Club of HSP Representatives. He pulled the motion out of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3580	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The proposal of the Law on Transfer of Government is also one of the projects of the Croatian Party of Law or the Club of HSP in the Croatian Parliament which has its own history and is not as old as this previous one we talked about for three years, this one is somewhat younger. So it's only somewhere in a time when, for example, it can walk with less fear, so somewhere around two years old, it's just a little over two years old. But here he came into the procedure finally, although he was already on two occasions on the Parliament's agenda in that last meeting, here he is again and finally we can discuss him. Of course, this bill of law was submitted by the HSP Club before last session, but, of course, within the business period, it was only now, and in the meantime, the government from last session to this one made a bill that I could actually say in 90% of the content entirely identical to the proposal, to our proposal. There are a few things that we have written in reasoning, and not as articles, but without any problems, our draft law was practically aware of in this proposed by the Government with only one amendment containing what the Government in its proposal wrote in Articles 4 and 5, I mean, not in Articles 3 and 4. So, with one government amendment this law could already be discussed, but here we were waiting for the government to practically say my proposal which is almost identical in 90%, so I'm going to give an explanation of what I hope the government won't repeat after me. Therefore, the legal regulation of the transfer of power is equally important for the development of democracy in Croatia as well as for the legal regulation of the democratic shift of power through a package of laws in connection with the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and this was the reason why we actually proposed this law. The transfer of power to the Republic of Croatia was state-level after the elections for the Croatian Parliament, either after the formation of the new parliamentary majority in the Croatian Parliament was not regulated by any law by this time, so we witnessed two meetings before, or at the constitutive session itself here, the fact that the Law on Government had to be amended because the current ministers were still ministers, they could not be representatives, etc. So we wanted to regulate it in a certain way with this law. After the elections on January 3, 2000, the Croatian public was precisely for the reason that this area was not regulated by any law on various contradictory charges from one end and from the other end of the political scene, so those who came to power after the elections also came down from the authorities. There was talk of political cleanups, of rematchism. On the other hand, there was a need to replace people where the right professional people should come into positions. There have been talk of shifts not due to expertise but because of political similarity, there has been talk of nepotism and everything and the club of HSP, for this reason, submitted a proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Authorities or made a proposal for a Law on Transfer of Authorities in order to, in a certain way, work out or lay down the rules of the game, better said to establish the rules under which the shift of power takes place. What the simple dictionary can say is that there should be a legal basis by which any state official who has been appointed or elected to that office or appointed to the supervisory board of state firms or similar places should actually know and each of the civil servants would have to know whether those people who after the election need to pack bags, store pictures of their family from the writing tables in cardboard boxes and carry these or are those people who can actually stay in their jobs, wait for the new administration, the state administration and during that time ensure the smooth work of the state administration which, of course, must not be violated in any way. This law actually has several dimensions. He does not only have his own political but he also has his own administrative and human resources and time scale. Therefore, with political certainty, the most important or important administrative dimension, which is, in fact, that the transfer of power on the one hand needs to meet the need for an effective and uninterrupted functioning of the state administration system during this change of government. Which would actually mean looking or expecting or trying to make it so that there are minimal personnel changes in the transfer of power. On the other hand, the transfer of power should enable a new parliamentary majority of the elections and supervision of all segments of the executive authority they consider decisive, which therefore requires, or would require maximum possible staff changes. To reconcile these two mutually conflicted attitudes is an attempt at this legislative proposal. That is why, in our court, it is necessary for the consensus of parliamentary parties to determine to what level resolutions and appointments should be implemented in the system of governmental administration. This proposal by the government actually shows that, ha, I'm not going to say it shows, but, behold, it raises suspicion that this consensus will not be reached this time, unfortunately. For that reason, the level we have affected by our bill to these staff checks is approximately the level that modern European countries have. I'll just say that we've been motivated by practices like Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Canada, Australia, Belgium and the United States. And we tried from these practices actually to make a proposal that would be the most similar to that model that we have in the neighbouring country of Slovenia which, for example, I will tell you that our bill makes me absolutely concrete, covering around 270 civil servants and civil servants. And that, for example, in Slovenia, which is quite as well as you know a smaller state and has a smaller number of inhabitants in fact and a different organised state administration with far fewer officials in Slovenia is such a law covering about 3 hundred government officials and 8 charming officials. Thus, this coverage that we have made does not stand at all to be too wide, too deep, or too deep. For example, the comparisons are done, in Germany which is a much larger state, this coverage is somewhere between 600 and 700 civil servants and civil servants but this is only about a federal state apparatus and a federal state administration not as you know Germany is a different territorial and politically organised state than Croatia. In any event, however, there is no correlation between the number of inhabitants, the size of the state and the scope of government officials or officials that would be covered by that law. So we believe that, in our proposal, we gave an optimum and width and depth when changing power, during the transfer of power. But, of course, it's all subject to one or the other, one or the other. In any case, it seems to us that no matter how well or badly affected, regardless of all of this I repeat, we should reach a certain consensus of all political parties because otherwise, no matter how well we pass such a law if, let's say, what is, why is a large, large percentage of the likelihood that this proposal is deadly rejected in this House. And to accept the government's proposal. We will again find ourselves in a position to have the Law on the transfer of power but we will continue to have doubts about rematchism, nepotism, political similarity and everything else. Only if we achieve truly one political consensus of all parliamentary political parties on this issue can we overcome any objections and any tensions on whether it is rematch or whether it is a normal transfer of power in which the normal work of the state administration is primarily ensured during the transitional period. Another segment, therefore, I have already said about this administrative dimension, the political dimension is also quite said and written, but rather discussed in, if not with, this assembly but certainly by the halls, therefore, off the record in this House. It is also about the human dimension that I was talking about, and it is actually an attempt to distinguish that these are political duties in the system of state administration and that are professional or public official duties. This unclear limit between political and civil duties can never and never guarantee neither the expertise nor the efficiency of the state administration, but the unclear limit can only guarantee political volunteerism, and the similarity of the choice of personnel at all levels of the state administration. It's completely safe and unequivocal. In other words, we believe that it is necessary to distinguish political officials who make their mandates available, i.e. leave their duties when changing authorities from public officials who are elected in their duties through a public tender and should remain in office independently of the change of power. It is not negligible in this whole story about the transfer of power but even more important if we remind ourselves of the shift or transfer of power after 3 January 2000 and so on. the time dimension of this whole problem. Therefore, the transfer of power must not last indefinitely, it must be limited in time, the transfer of power must not result in any functioning, that the functioning of the state administration is questionable. Citizens and civil servants must not feel, let alone the consequences of the transfer of power, nor the day-to-day tasks of the public administration, nor of short-term or medium-term projects. At the same time, clear legal provisions and clear deadlines for the transfer of authorities mean that any coalition or party intending to take over the country must prepare for this in due time both programme and personnel. The transfer of power must be swift, comprehensive within the framework of the law, i.e. within those frameworks within which the law covers this transfer of power, i.e. it must be consistent with the transfer of duties at all legally envisaged levels. This was to be cared for by our court by a special transitional committee within, which would be formed under this law. The transitional committee, as set out in Article 7 of our proposal, should appoint a Croatian Parliament at its constitutive session, i.e. when forming a new parliamentary majority, should consist of several members and should be composed of representatives of the new and former parliamentary majority. In order for this privilege of government to take place as safely as possible without and without problems and without impasses. And even without certain suspicions during the transfer of power. Likewise, during the transfer of power itself, as well as during the transfer of power, one of the ministries should, and it is also regulated by this proposal of the law to provide state reports in its portfolio so that what happens, for example, does not happen at the time of this handover of the authorities. When the new government is, in fact, the new prime minister and the new prime minister when, in fact, they received reports according to certain resolutions on an arbitrary basis. If some ministries had prepared reports on the state of the resort, then they would have gotten them, if some ministries hadn't gotten them. In any event, such reports would not be uniform in such a way as to be easily read and easily managed by a particular procedure and by a particular form. So you had examples of us actually listening for a few days to the bickering between the new health minister, on the one hand, who claimed that the situation in his portfolio was not exactly what the former minister claimed. In that regard, HZZO president or HZZO director claimed that his reports contained some figures of the new minister claimed that they do not contain and so on and so on. If it were lawfully resolved how these reports on the state of the resort should look, what we are proposing in our bill, then such disagreements should not and should not actually occur. Therefore, for this opening part I will indeed ask you, although there has been quite a traffic around this pay phone while I have been expressing our views as a promoter of this law. And I had a slight feeling that all my colleagues were already very well directed into this law. It's the only thing I can think of, or they think it's completely irrelevant. I'm asking you to do it one more time. I warn you of the fact that such a law is really important for the functioning of the state and state administration, that it is very important that it is very important to meet all these dimensions that I have mentioned. And that means not only political but also administrative but also human resources, but also this time frame that is just as important as the previous ones. So that the shift of power takes place within some ordinary hundred days or three months of new power. And they do not form as it was that they form a variety of more party or unilateral political committees, which from the municipality to the government will, in fact, reduce the head of state or deputy chiefs in individual administrations. And in certain ministries. And deploy quotas within political parties who should come and where they should actually come. It's to make that point quite clear. And in order for it to be quite clear that it would satisfy all those who are leaving and those who are coming to become truly normal polite democracy and during the transfer of power, so I stress the need for a further consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament, because if this consensus does not have doubts about remandism and the criteria for the transfer of power will continue if it does not go further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3581	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Antun Palaric, to explain the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3582	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government sent parliament a bill on the procedure of handing over authorities. Which I would say to a large extent is 80% different from the bill represented by a representative of the HSP Club. And this in terms of content is the government's desire by this law to limit the government's powers at that point in political life when the government has no political control. So when Parliament's term of office expired or the Parliament's disbanded. Furthermore, the Government only deals with officials who will be relieved of their duties but also offers them an alternative if they are not re-elected or appointed to their duties or other duties. However, it should be pointed out that Croatian practice has already stabilised some positions, some solutions and that in that part we have far removed from rematchism and that the government cannot be accused of any rematchism. We have already created a certain layer of professionals who, as a life call, have chosen to work in the state administration, some have made progress through the structures of the administration and lower posts. And many of them worked in the former Matesha government and the previous government led by Prime Minister Racan and have now continued to act on the same or other duties. So one round of professionals was created in Hrvatko and they continue to do their job. With this Act, the Government wanted to prevent the conclusion of an investment contract in order to promote pre-election and appoint the office that took place in certain ministries after the elections were held or during the period from calling the elections until the end until the formation of the new one called for the assembly. For this we suggest that in principle the Government cannot bring appointments of an office from the day of the election. If this is necessary because a single body of the state administration is left without a leader or has no deputy who could replace it in the period until the new parliament is established, then the election of the new government is authorised by the Government to appoint the acting official. It is not good for the appointment of certain duties to create a new government in the trouble of reviewing the quality of these newly appointed officials. And there were several examples of such appointments. In particular, it is an important provision for us to prohibit the Government from signing elections from making contracts on capital investments of a more significant value. There are thirds when it is necessary to conclude some kind of contract then it would be possible to conclude this on condition that business ends by election day, or if the election after the election and the formation of the new government concludes some capital investment contract, we suggest that the Prime Minister consult with the prime minister for the formation of the new government. With regard to officials who should put their mandates at their disposal, the Government is significantly more restrictive than the proposal we have heard earlier. However, the government does not think that any government official or deputy should be given a mandate at all. They are subject to the Law on Officials, it is known that they are coming to work, as they are admitted to the State Service, what is the system of progress. What is the appointment of positions and what is the procedure of resolution unless they have met their tasks. He therefore wants to professionalise the state administration where, as professional, all civil servants and tenants and even lower public officials, they would. We would like to prescribe that the term of office be made available by the Prime Minister, Deputy Secretary of Government, State Secretary, Ministry Secretary, Assistant Ministers, Directors of State Administration Organisations, Directors of Government agencies and Head of the Government's Office, and in that section in the administrative structure, this would be the end. There are other deputy directors of administrative organisations, deputy directors of government agencies, assistant directors of state administration organisations. We believe that these lower officials would not be obliged to put their mandates at their disposal. This law also proposes a very short deadline in which the Government must review their work so far and decide on their working fate in a way that will restore them and re-trust them with mandates, re-elected them or relieved them of their duties. We also want the mandates at the disposal of the Government to be placed which is particularly important and more important than the lower government officials, these are the presidents and members of the supervisory boards in commercial societies owned by the Republic of Croatia and that the government decides very quickly on these issues within 60 days. However, we are all aware of the fact that Croatia is a small country and that Croatia cannot afford a situation where every four or three years a whole set of people who have already formed as experts who have learned to do their job will throw their jobs on the street but we are proposing two models of solving the rights of non-reelected officials. One of these seems to be very useful to the state, that a state official who is not re-assigned, is once again appointed to offer him a job in the state service that corresponds to his professional preparation, knowledge and work experience. The second model is what used to be a provision of the Labour Act but was deleted and directed to resolve this issue by a special law, we think this is a convenient law to resolve it, and that is the question of the official's right to return to the workplace from which he came when he was appointed to office. We prescribe an obligation for the employer to receive it again, this article will likely be updated for another reading, we will specify after how many years this obligation would be if it were not logical to force the employer to endure for 15 years how much a person behaves in order to regain his duties. All in all, it is the Government's opinion that this law will introduce order in the process of handing over authorities and that it will at the same time protect civil servants against the fears that any change of government brings to them, and that it will make clear to the state officials listed here that they must take account of their work after the government's term is over. We propose that this law be thoroughly discussed and that after the debate we will prepare a final proposal with respect to all the proposals that are being heard here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3583	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow us to stop for a moment with this debate in order to supplement the agenda, because one part of the MPs should go, there are other obligations, travels, delegations so that we just go to... In accordance with Article 204(2), Rules of Procedure, I suggest adding the agenda to the points I have announced, and now I will read them clearly: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the cost of health care, with final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, 5. Final draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, 7. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and 8. Proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States during 2004. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Four laws are proposed under the urgent procedure: Law amending the Law on Railways, P.Z. No. 49; amending the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. 48; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 46th and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the costs of health care, P.Z. No. 47. Do any of the MPs have any objection to the passing of any of these laws by emergency procedure? Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Railways? Thank you. Against? I find that with 84 votes for, 21 against being included in the agenda under the urgent procedure of the Law amending the Law on Railways. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Income Tax Act? Thank you. Against? I find that with 87 votes for, 18 against an emergency procedure, the Law amending the Income Tax Act. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 82 votes for, 23 against the agenda of this session, the Emergency Procedure Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the exemption from paying part of the costs of health care? Who's for please? Thank you. Against? I find that with 87 votes for, 18 against the agenda of this session, the final draft law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of a part of health care. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of any of the remaining points in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established, I ask the presidents of the working bodies to put these laws on the agenda next week, to call the committees and put them on the board's agenda so that they can be discussed next week. Now we're continuing the debate we've stopped for. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor of the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, the Law on the Handover of Authorities? Here you are, Mr. Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3584	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, on the proposal for a law on the transfer of power proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held on 24 February discussed the proposal for a law on the transfer of power submitted by the HSP Club to the president on 23 January 2004. We discussed the law referred to above on the basis of the jurisdiction referred to in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an opinion on the proposal for a bill stating that it did not support the Bill's proposal because of the disagreement of its provisions with the provisions of the Law on State officials and tenants and the Law on the System of State Administration. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention not to accept this proposal. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 5th session of 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for a law on the procedure of handing over power to the President of the Croatian Parliament, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 February 2004. We also discussed the Law as a parent committee based on Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal, but the opinion was expressed that the content of the law and the Croatian language would nevertheless be more appropriate to the term "transposition" than "presidation" by the authorities. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority, 9 votes for and 1 abstention, to the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3585	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Committee. Anyone else from the work bodies? No, I don't. Working bodies. We're going to a club debate. He's got a word on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3586	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. TO begin first of all, means in the event of changes in power after parliamentary elections, the fate of MPs is clear, MPs leave clearly if they do not confirm a new mandate and there is no dilemma. In the Republic of Croatia, so is the world except perhaps still in two or three countries that do not hold elections. It is hard to imagine that a minister in the new government could participate if his political option loses elections, however, such a single solution does not have to be excluded. However, the fundamental question arises, what it means to organise a civilised change of government without any change of government being experienced after the elections carried out by rematchism, cleanliness, by seeking some new political resemblance, cutting, repression and so forth. Just before I was wrong, Mr. Rožic said that the 3 January authorities had replaced about 300 people in various structures of government, not counting, naturally, parliamentary representatives and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. He mentioned that 3 January authorities resolved if I was not mistaken, if I would quote it well 272 or 3 members of the board of directors in various hospitals. What is also known as the 3 January authorities withdrew 25 ambassadors and 13 consuls defacto immediately upon coming to power, etc. The question arises whether she was right to do so. It is. Does the new authority that took power 22 if I am not mistaken 11 also have the right to change part of the frame? There is. Mr Rosic mentioned earlier that some 300 officials are also leaving in Slovenia after a change of government, he mentioned the case of Germany, in which 600 to 700 officials follow that fate after a change of government. I ask myself how any government will make a change in politics with the old staff, means officials, and I simply don't understand it, and that's why I think a part of the people must go because we are going to the elections to change the composition of the Parliament first, then clearly the Government, and I guess everything doesn't stay the same, or to change the policies in the country that got the parliamentary majority. It is clear that this change of government needs to be carried out civilised, it needs to be implemented according to the pre-known rules, rules that will be known long before the elections and where to know who is going to stay. I ask again as in the morning why, for example, ministerial assistants would outlive all governments. If they're officials, then let's say the gentlemen share the fate of the authorities in leaving. If they're not officials there's a clearly different story then let them stay. In no way can this administrative, administrative staff bear any consequences of the political changes that will be experienced in the country. If it were done that way, it would be a crime against both the country and those people. Clearly, these people will in no way put their mandates at their disposal because they are simply not officials. In my view, the most elegant solution is that all officials, but literally all officials, I do not clearly mean judges here, I do not mean the governor of the Croatian National Bank because these relations are regulated by special laws must put their mandates at the disposal of the new government. And this new government can thank them for their trust, it can offer them some other job can keep them at their existing job. In my view, officials should also do so in the event of the formation of a new parliamentary majority during one of the election cycles, in a word to make their mandates available. If an official, and we know that he cannot get paid before submitting, say, a property card, too, the basis of the Law should be resolved by the letter of that Law if he does not put, I do not know, at the disposal of the Prime Minister within about 15 days of the formation of the new Government. So you have rights, but you must clearly have certain obligations. You have privileges, but on the other hand, and the greatest possible risk of losing power without a job, and perhaps without existence. Nothing, clearly, can happen by force. Nothing based on discretionary will, I don't know Mr. Sanader, Hebrang, Racan, Cain, Baby or someone on the fifth. All based on the law, all based on clear political or legal criteria. Understandably, the proposed term of office of the Prime Minister may or may not have to accept. If within 15 days, the Prime Minister, for example, is not apparent about the offer of officials, then this one should remain in that status even after the change of power. Clearly, it is understandable, there must also be a mechanism of change, in order to say resolutions, improvements and during someone's performance, but the point is that any change in government is no longer seen as the beginning of a big cleanup. How far can you go in all this? It is clear even that even a certain category of civil servants, in my court, should, under quotes, go to put their mandate, but now I will tell the new ministers at my disposal. And so that everything now the new government can implement its policy. I believe we should do this, say, spokeswoman in certain ministries, personal secretary. Maybe someone will say it's too radical, but it's also a secretary. You are aware that Mr. Cacic has brought his secretary from the Ministry to the Parliament and so on, and everything so that the new government can start implementing its policy. Nothing I'm talking about is unusual, nothing I'm talking about isn't, and it's not being applied in our neighbouring countries that we like to say are old parliamentary democracies. It is also understandable to offer their mandates here to supervisory authorities or congregations within the appropriate time limit to their directors, members of the Supervisory Boards. And finally time to avoid stories that, for example, I don't know, the director of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or Croatian Forests comes to this job because it is the best of the best in the Republic of Croatia. These people were both before January 3rd and after January 3rd, and this is certainly the case and are now coming to those functions because they were party-elected, clearly respecting the criteria of the elections and so on. And I just think about those questions that I think at least we sitting in this house don't need to paint. The same applies to Croatian roads, Croatian water, INA, I don't know Jadrolini, Croatian electricity and so on. And at a local level in my court, there should be similar rules. In 1993, the IDS took over management in Istria, did not resolve a single person, but all those before the 2000 elections began to lead their policies against those who protected them. I say it is legitimate, but the principle of making the mandate available should become “conditio sin quanom” both at the state level and at the regional or urban or municipal level. There's something else I want to say. The transfer of power by the IDS court cannot only entitle the mandate to be made available. The transfer of power must also be regulated by what this Law provides, which was also spoken by the State Secretary, which is what financial obligations from the declaration of election results to the takeover of power from some new government can be carried out by the old government, the old administration, I do not know in Croatian forests, Jadrolinia and so on. And not only that, but also what obligations a government can transfer to a new government, and all to avoid these stories, how indifference it was and how much resources had to be allocated in 2000 to resolve the financial delinquencies of the former government, or how much debts were hidden now after the government was taken over by HDZ and Mr Sanader. Therefore, this law by my court is necessary, necessary to regulate the functioning of the authorities from learning election results to forming a new government. Secondly, how they have to run state finances exactly and how much of a commitment can be transferred to new power in some way. It is not correct for one country to be in charge of working, I do not know I will say skyscrapers in Zagreb, and that the other government must pay all these obligations only and finally a new policy I hold cannot be run with the old people. Minimum, minimum meaning of decency should require officials of one authority to make their mandates available, and whether that offer will be accepted, I do not know the government or prime minister, and that is their personal choice now. To these people in the government, the prime minister is primarily a huge responsibility for the policy-making mandated by the Parliament, and parliamentary representatives from the citizens, but also for the fate of people who could in some way be thanked for their trust because I said in some way I could remain without existence. However, the man who will exercise power, the minister, the government, does not matter, must be freed by the law of that rematch, should be released from the charge that the executioner, I don't know, the people would say the murderer of a smiling person. The sooner we make such a law, the sooner we give ourselves rules by which everyone who comes to a debt function will know how to behave, the less trauma the country will go through. And it's clear that if someone makes a mistake they'll pay her in the next election, but part of the freedom to humanize must have every authority that takes responsibility for the country's leadership, for running the county, for some city or I don't know, municipalities. It is clear that once again, I will point out in no way can such a policy be engulfed in administrative administrative staff. All countries, we are aware of this, have such laws, especially such laws need countries in transition, and I guess at the end or finally should accept the Republic of Croatia. It's Croatia, we all know a small country. I am convinced that no government will play and live over the staff, however, I would like to say that this government proposal is a typical proposal that senior bureaucrats in the government adapt first to themselves and then to the state. They only have the impression that they have proposed legal arrangements to take care of themselves, and I advise them to share the fate of the options they were dedicated to during one term of office or serve. And that would be honorable of those people. If I share what is right with me, then I must take over because of this status and the fate of the government that is leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3587	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3588	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the proposal of the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, which submitted to the Croatian Assembly of HSP Representatives, and is hardly able to support the draft law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, which we really think is something, that there is a bad copy of this significantly better original which, as I pointed out originally handed over to the HSP's Club of Representatives. First of all, the name of the bill itself, the proposal for a Law on Transfer of Government, is much better drawn and more in the spirit of our language than the proposal for a Law on the Handover of Authorities procedure. Because it's not just a process, it's a matter of content, at least it seems to me that the government had that kind of intensity. However, there is something that we want to say in the introduction, that we really need to have this matter regulated, a significant problem. Why is that? Everyone, we all know right here, because we need to know that, because we are representatives of the citizens, we have been voted by the citizens. and fear and shivering shows with many citizens, that we are not just talking about officials and tenants within our administration, our administration, but also not just the state administration. Why is that? Because not only were the government officials here and the normal ones who were leaving, I'm going to say something about it later, but also ordinary officials and tenants at the time felt insecure, taught by a very negative experience, not to talk since 1990. Now, the number and number of shifts that the 3rd January government carried out are numbered. We have lost good power, because the people objected to us primarily to the whole, the complaint was fundamentally that we were not rid of it. However, we have partly defended ourselves from acting according to the law, and all the shifts that have taken place have not occurred in the fullness of the legal powers, it is true and that is why citizens really need to be apologized. However, what happened exclusively within the limits of legal powers. What happened, I'm not just saying this because of the challenge of the past, but that the situation really got up and that it's not happening anymore. What happened in the 1990s was the cleanup that affected our state administration, but I say not only the administration, but the judiciary's consequences are that we're feeling them today, and we're going to feel them for a long, long time. In fact, not only the civil servants and the tenants, that they left their places of professionally, honorably doing their job, so we, here, were pointed out that we are not many, because we are not a large and multi-human country, but all of us are less quality personnel, educated personnel and our administration, our administration is left without very capable personnel, which, more or later, when they had the opportunity to return, they no longer had the desire, or the will to do so, because they either retired or found a much, much better paid and more lucrative job than those skilled and owners of companies, who knew how to recognize professionalism in them. So I think it's the wisdom of one policy to recognize these people, because they are the ones who are helping them to affirm their own policy, of course all of their own aspects of professionalism. So why does this matter? It is as important, above all, as explained, and here is the Government's proposal, and it is indeed so that an acceptable degree of security and continuity is achieved in the performance of the affairs of the state administration, except that we at the SDP Club do not consider this in this way, as the Government suggests and achieves it. But it is very important that those who remain after the shift of authorities who know that they will stay, that they will remain for their professionalism, not because they are potentially strange or with them the government is just counting on them because of wonder. So it's very important that they develop self-awareness, because they can't develop professionalism until the end unless they're aware, so one of the prestigious roles they play everywhere in the world is working in the state administration and a certain honor. Of course, the adoption of this law must also be accompanied by an amendment to the Law on civil servants and tenants, that it is also transparent of their responsibility and that their responsibility falls only from the aspect of transparency and accountability to profession and ethical behaviour. That is why it is very important for us to also pass the law on, or ethical code, now it is a question and in what form or form it would apply to the official and the substitute. Because otherwise the widespread public perception is very critical of not only the top of the state administration, but also of those at the bottom of that pyramid of the state administration. Just to point out that earlier, in the earlier government, a minister had initiated proceedings before a court of law, it was necessary to do so in a more transparent and responsible manner in front of that official court, that there should not be any court that would serve to move the unsurprised, but also that the work of those who do not work in the state administration and administration would also be valorised. So, he initiated proceedings before the official court, against one of the referents who made the two files he solved in two years. And he got a warning. So that's what irritates people, and that's what has to be very much connected to this law. So, to know precisely the criteria of responsibility for their profession, and then to protect this law precisely by those professionals. And this second law says, the Law on civil servants and tenants that will enable right now, i.e. to disable people who do not work, who are not professionals or ultimately who have come to the state service once and for all that they are not for centuries, but that they certainly do not fall under political criteria, but according to the criteria of their profession and efficiency. It was said and that's true, the only question is that even these last situations that happen, do they deny it. and indeed progress has been made in 2000, that Croatia's practice has nevertheless moved away in this, especially for the last two years. So that's why even in the media when the shifts appeared, and even the ones that could be done by law, but how the public perceived these people as professionals then she was, of course, surprised why these people were leaving. And that's why it seems to me that this HSP proposal is much more acceptable to talk about people who need to leave when the government changes. These are, in any case, ministers, State Secretarys, and then these principals, or principals, vice-presidents, which I mean is quite fine, but doesn't mention the deputy ministers. And I think it's quite acceptable, or ministerial assistants. Ministers' assistants must be professionals, and I think that the past power in this sense began in exactly this way and acted to reach people who are not party members, or who will really be professionals, behind this aspect really help to find the lead, of course they must also be loyal to current politics and authorities, but who will consider the matter from the aspect of professionalism. Of course, no such changes can occur, but I say only after the law has been passed. It would be very dangerous to change in political resemblance, and then we're passing a law on how we're going to cement it all. The procedure should be reversed. We've had a familiar situation in the judiciary and it doesn't need to be looked at now, but in any case, that's exactly the right way of doing it when it comes to these things. I mean, here's a chance to warn you of something here in the state assessment, it shouldn't happen like this by the government. Here, when it comes to the assessment of the situation under point 2 of the bill and then here in the explanation, it states which person the law has to apply to. A person appointed on a decided specific duty. So, on, because Decided means specified, so translation would be on a certain, certain duty. So in that sense, you can see one hasty, and you'd better go copying something that the experiment did. It's not supposed to be done like that, but it should be done if there's something good to support it, even if it comes from opposition. It shows the strength of a single authority that is confident of itself. This gives you a different impression. But in any case, there's better this way, that you're still listening to what the opposition is doing and that's some good suggestions, a little bit or in a awkward way, but that's also one shift and that's also to say hello. I think there's a trap here in the government's proposal. The trap is in Article 7. She seems to look like a security but not an officer and a tenant who absolutely must have and he falls under, I must say, it is necessary to change that law to make his responsibility transparent. But a state official comes into politics at his own risk. He can't, therefore, be supplied when he's no longer a state official to then turn into a civil servant and a tenant, we've had such situations by 2000, I don't know if he's ever passed a law like that. It is no longer a state official, therefore, who has made his mandate available as provided for in Article 7 and shall not be appointed to a duty which he or she has acted on or on any other duty that the head of the body, in that case, must distribute it to an official post. You can imagine, in the case of a slightly more frequent change of government, how much more often a body might then have an officer and a substitute, therefore, and beyond a direct need than that body needs or some administration or organisation needs. Whether this is also in line with the vision at least announced and the reduction of civil servants and deputies. This is certainly not to be accepted, and it is especially not to be accepted when an amendment to the law to the formation of the ministries has created an uncanny possibility for the government to, instead of abolishing the deputy ministers and the establishment of a parallel power in the ministries, depending on how the ministry really supports and helps the minister somewhere, and somewhere it is indeed that possibly and its own minister controls because it is fully evident in the parallel responsibility, therefore, it does not respond to the primary minister but directly to the Government. So it's a matter of position, but let's leave that thing for maybe another debate. But then it's not in the law at that time how many State Secretarys can have one ministry at all. It's not specified at all. Which means they can be tens and tens and then when the power changes, they all fit in that body. Could our, our economy, our taxpayers keep it, after all, if it's even fair. So I think this is, indeed, one trap, and it's not, that it's one of the worst provisions here in this bill, that it needs to be deleted. Such a government official should return to where he came from if he had worked before. So we can't work from a state official, so in this indirect way, we can provide him with love. At no cost. In fact, what we need to guarantee this change is the professionalization of our administration because it is the only way that it becomes more responsible, professional, and only as such can it be responsible for this measure to serve, i.e. to be a mirror indicator, a state official to be a mirror of a state, which ultimately makes every administration, or every civil servant and tenant, and values. Therefore, we suggest that the Proposer really consider what is stated. To take greater account of how the HSP Club did it, but in any case we need to amend the law on civil servants and tenants. Because we can't cement one condition if we haven't done a transparent responsibility here for officials, tenants and those who would no longer fall under change, that is, as colleague Cain said, who wouldn't normally pack their suitcases when there was a change of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3589	Thank you very much. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations by Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3590	Mr. President, make one correction. If I had time then there would have been more and I wouldn't have heard from my colleague Anticevic if I hadn't been lucky to be a representative in the previous assembly of this Parliament. Well, I don't know, if I didn't know by chance what was going on since 3 January 2000, then I would have accepted everything you said today among the last sentences of professionalism, the expertise in the administration, but Mrs. Collars why you didn't say so on January 3, 2000 when you were in the name of fear and trembling that you're talking about today, and why didn't you mention it then wouldn't do the following. You have replaced 35 general consuls and ambassadors in certain places in European countries and the overseas countries within 6 weeks, for over a year there have remained empty places of ambassador, as was very important for certain countries from Berlin, not to list further. You were distracted by the thanks in the rooms of the general consulates where they wrote the names and last names of the people who were building or buying that building. And one more thing. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] I have one, ask your colleague that you sent to Norway what you did to Mr., sir, please. Here, he lost his residence permit, went back to Croatia. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3591	You can't, you can't speak any further, ma'am. Sit down, please. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3592	All right, then be like that to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3593	Thank you very much. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3594	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I think it's evident that a respected representative has violated Rule 209's Rules of Procedure because she has not corrected any incorrect allegations. It was her opinion, replication, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3595	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect, violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3596	Mr. Vice-President, I refer to Rule 209 of Rule 209 of Article 2, my colleague Anticevic hurt his Rules of Procedure when she said that I did not give accuracy to her 10-minute speech, which was just a party, all that I said, and if she had time, she would list the realities of what they had done since 3 January 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3597	Thank you very much. Don't get into an argument, just warn about the injury. Thank you very much. There's no 'cause this other isn't a correction. This breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I thank you. There's a word on behalf of Klub HSS Mr. Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3598	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Secretary of State. So give me a few words. about the two laws that are here before us. First of all, I want to make it clear that it's good that we have these two laws here. And I don't think there's any MPs here who are sorry, who won't agree with that. Therefore, we can speak here today for sure that such a law is necessary in Croatia. Without him, unfortunately, they wanted me to or didn't want to admit certain problems of a certain misunderstanding I'm going to try to say something more about them here. With the fact that, of course, it is my duty to say on behalf of the HSS Club, the proposal of the HSP is, in any case, a proposal that has its own completeness, but of course it must also be said here, that it needs to be complemented with certain provisions of the articles that stand in the government's proposal. I think it may be necessary at first here to say that such important laws are certainly not laws that will be passed by a certain vote or overvote but are laws that should be passed by a particular consensus. I mean, no one's going to get a crown off their heads if someone takes away a priority, or anything about a proposal or something else, but I think it's appropriate that this law be passed in a more high-quality form. I think it's here especially for the analysis here we've heard so far from distinguished colleagues, the concept of professionals in the state administration. I think even those who weren't and those who met with the government know what professional means. And I think it's a notion that maybe it's important to talk about here. Sometimes I think that we all overestimate ourselves together and think that in Croatia we have a lot of professionals and, unfortunately, because of that wrong assessment, we sometimes have some mistakes. It was at the highest national Asia, so they wanted to or didn't want to admit it sometimes at those lower levels and down to those municipal or urban ones. That's why I'm sure the most important fact here is how long the level in this power transfer should go. We see that the government has decided on a proposal that goes in one piece deeper, so it goes all the way to the assistant minister. while in a certain part of the HSP proposal goes all the way to the government's spokeswoman. I think we have different examples both in the world and in the countries, but I think that I should evaluate together which proposal is best. Is it possible always after each election to find a sufficient number of real professionals who will not need 6, 7 8 or a year of stalking, but will immediately start with a job that is definitely necessary in the executive authority. I think we're all aware that they're happening to us in the election, and that's almost 3.4 months before the election, and then three, four months after the election, almost block the entire system. The state administration of certain reasons almost stops working while that stalker goes through time again. And in particular, I have to say that in our difficult economic situation, it is inadmissible and does total damage. A large number of our officers and tenants, we have to say it alive in fear, uncertainty, doesn't know what's going to happen to them to where the change is going to go. What they will include, will individual commissioners, assistants, or other civil servants remain in this section. I do not think that as far as the transfer of power is concerned, it is not questionable for those prominent state officials such as ministers, and members of the government, deputy ministers, so of course Parliament should not be questioned at all. But everything below that is something to talk about. What we lack is the creation of ejahs I would say to professionals in certain teams that would follow in that section, so it would be precisely known that in one cabinet of the Prime Ministers, you know exactly which people are doing a certain professional part, which are certainly those who came with both the Prime Minister and that minister and who, of course, are leaving with them after the term of office. In any case, because of this uncertainty, I think other people need their protection and I can therefore say that all praises to this part of this proposal are common around the law itself. However, it is impossible to say here that we can forget a phenomenon that is unfortunately slightly forgotten, but I think we need to say here. And that's the problem with administration and red tape because I think it might happen to us after this and this one effect. We're going to have people who are definitely changing and in certain bodies, so there's going to be professionals left, and I agree that's how it should be. However, it may happen that many, and I will tell you from those examples of my own experience, that bigger and now it has been known to happen, and perhaps colleagues will apply it, I will not quote ministers and I will not talk about individual cases, but many of our administrations are very clearly changing, the ministers cross. But they stay. And it's not good at that pgoled, either because it can draw expendable conclusions, or I would say very problematic or blocked work. So, in any case, with this kind of change, it's important to get into the changes and the law on civil servants and tenants, which is also what my colleague Ingrid was talking about. And I think that's how you need to do that extra step. What's the problem with the general state administration is, of course, the problem that, unfortunately for my information, we don't have high-level institutions that are just about this part of the administration about that part means high school study. I think there's something in that section that we need at our universities to do, because I think there's also such professional personnel missing. Here and finally, I may say, in any case, believe that even after this first reading with our support in this part of the law proposed by the Croatian Party of Rights, it will certainly be complemented in that section relating to Articles 3 and 4 where certain contracts are spoken of and so on. Because we think that's a good solution. But in what part of the appeal, of course, we'll trust the next part as quickly as I've been able to conclude here reading the final law and finally a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3599	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In the name of the proposed word there is a Mr. Representative...... But you asked on behalf of the promoter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nothing. Okay. Then the HNS club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3600	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is extremely good that the debate on this serious topic was opened in the Croatian Parliament and, in particular, thanks to the HSP colleagues who have caused this debate with their proposal, but in some ways forced the government to come with their counter-proposal. In these two handovers, the authorities in Croatia had been shed an extremely large amount of bile and polemics about the procedure, the way, the humane solutions, the rematch and that we had had this area regulated before, probably the Croatian public, voters and citizens and spared themselves all those conflicts that we did not need, which were the result of the lack of legal regulation on the one hand, but also the offended way of behaviour that every government when it took over or took over the government felt that democracy and the formation of the state administration began only from them. I hope that soon in a legislative way we will resolve this area and that never again when handing over, handovers will be required to lead any controversy and to make it as normal as it is for the Parliament to establish itself at the first session. As for the very text of the Government proposal, allow three or four observations or requests to the Proposer to think carefully about some of the proposed formulations that again after the law was passed, such as with the Law of Conflict of Interest after five months, they would not find that it cannot be applied or that no one understands it. Article 2 regulates the start of the process of handing over authorities, saying, among other things, that it starts as well as the formation of a new executive authority. The formation of a new executive power may be the choice of government, there may be ten other interpretations of that concept, so this formation of a new executive authority should be replaced by the words "government" and the other things that should be said if we said when it begins then we must and say by what time it must be at the latest and end. That the handover could not last 12 months, 6, 8 but possibly 3 of the day of the constitution of the new assembly of the Parliament. The second serious remark is in Article 4(1), which provides that from the date of the vote, the Government must not enter into contracts on capital investments of a more significant value. What does more significant value mean? What's that amount? Who judge whether it's a more significant value or not that it could be signed or not? Therefore, the notion of a more significant value is a matter of personal understanding of interpretation and here, too, should either go with a norm that will be clear either by the amount or by the size of the class in the state budget in order to avoid possible disputes in the application of the law itself. Thirdly, by comparing the proposal of the Government and colleagues from the HSP, it is obvious that it will always be so that when the Government proposes such legislative solutions it will seek to make available as little as possible for those who should do so, and that, in opposition proposals, there will always be more or more so because they always hope one in case of a loss of choice to ensure their survival, and the other in anticipation of obtaining the elections that they can change as much as possible. And it would really be good if, in the final versions of the law, that article 5 or logic or that it refers to political officials by not touching official duties because otherwise we will never get out of it. Article 8(1) introduces one newspaper in this type of legislation and provides for the right of the official to return to work at the place where he worked before the election or appointment at the end of his duty. Why did this formulation come into this law? Until about a year ago, this was an area of the regulations of the Labour Act and the Labour Act provided for the right of elected officials to return to work after the term of office to the employer from whom they left. During the past changes to the Labour Act, this provision was abandoned, and I spoke to people who interpreted it in the name of the promoter on the grounds that it was regulated by other regulations which at that time was not correct, and now it is seen that it is not true, so it is obvious that this provision should be returned. However, I do not believe that she should remain this way, because when she was in the working legislation, then it was approximately a solution that this right to return to work with the same employer would go to a term of four years, or up to five years, because someone could be on duty not only for a year, two, three, four, but if there are two mandates that are eight years, three mandates twelve years, somewhere there are mandates and longer. It may therefore be that someone would seek this right to exercise this right and to exercise this right after twenty years in office to return to the same employer. That is why it is already going with this proposal to be the subject of this law, to return to the solution of the former Labour Act and that this right cannot last for more than five years. That's my suggestion. And final. I'm not sure it's necessary to pass a special law and to arrange this area. As far as officials in the executive government are concerned, this can be regulated by the Government Act. As far as the Parliament is concerned, I hope that in this year we will still pass the law in the Croatian Parliament that we do not have or have never, if I am not mistaken, we have so far. And thirdly, I'm asking, and I remind you of the debate on this Law of the previous conflict of interest, haven't we forgotten another important area of regulation where the problems are the same, the same, the traumas are just not so media-exploited because they're not at national level. The same reasons, the same problems and the same ambiguities may arise and occur when authorities are taken over at regional and local levels. A few minor problems, somewhat less public shouting and shouting, but this law solves only the issue of national state level. Therefore, either this regulation regulates or accepts access to government level to regulate the Law on Government and the Law on Assembly, and for the local level, this same area regulates the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government to be known as game rules. And the fact is that in some local and regional self-government, it was not necessary to law and that the handover was carried out in a highly civilized manner and without any trauma. So I remind you that in 1997, after the local elections in Međimurje County, no one was relieved of any duties and functions whether it was the administrative bodies of the county, businesses or institutions owned by the county. No one. And it seems to me that the only person who left with his own desire was the secretary of the county of my current colleague, Dance, if I'm not mistaken. So without the need for a legislative solution without any problems and any market problems, it was solved and done in 97 years. And that is why I appeal to the government not to forget that the issue of local and regional self-government must also be resolved but I advocate that it be the area of the Law on Local Self-Government, as I advocate this to be the area of the Government Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3601	I thank Mr. Lesar. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3602	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, since this is the first reading of these two laws, seek to stick to its debate within the framework of the principle debate. In fact, my predecessors agreed less from all clubs that there was indeed a need to pass such a law. Of course, we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club share such an opinion, and not only do we share this for the first time that a government appears as the promoter of such a law. The true initiative since 2001 in this House and in this form of the proposal exists from HSP's Club of Representatives but I would say the government's proposal represents one seriousness and is in fact a guarantee that Croatia will finally receive the Law that will settle the issue of the handover of the authorities. However, considering this as a lawyer, I find it difficult to agree on an explicit or prominent finding that there is indeed a great need for the adoption of this Law. Why? In fact, as lawyers, we have already learned as students in the state and law case what is the fundamental difference between democratic and totalitarian regimes, between democratic and totalitarian states, between legally regulated and totalitarian states. The basic difference as teachers taught us about human rights is the following, in democratic systems, man deals with politics and in totalitarian reverse, means politics to man. As for other fundamental differences in democratic states and regimes, power is elected for a specified time and subject to change before the time it has been elected. In our case, Parliament's term of office for four years, the government is just as many, the president for five years, some other constitutional factors for a second time. In totalitarian regimes in power, as a rule, it remains for life, the authorities end death, mostly violent. Then the question arises how in a number of previous elections, in one polite and politically courteous way, in one politically cultural way, without great doubts, without major conflicts in a series of times, we had a successful handover of power from one party to another, from the same political group or from different political sexes. And of course HDZ took over the 90th power it was marked in another way in the war that followed, and HDZ taught power in 2000 and it happened in 2003 and we suddenly find ourselves without this law we can't go on. Because on behalf of the HDZ Club, I agree with this finding, I want to answer the questions why we can't go on and I think that I think that the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is successfully giving answers to these questions. In my opinion, the two groups of basic problems most of my predecessors have said here and I will also essentially apostrophe. The first group of problems is that it is with state officials which is with politicians who have to leave office. For one political direction is political rematchism, political cleanup, and for the other it's a normal political shift, and one of them is leaving. Such issues were not even big and problems in 2000 when the cleanups were actually made, now that the Croatian government has failed to fulfil the 100th mandate in the democratic world and in the democratic senses, conditionally speaking a consistent untouchability it calls for cleanups, shifts, etc., and we are witnessing that there are still former ministers acting in office on some supervisory committees. So, there was a climate, political cleanups, persecution, etc., and that is why the proposer comes out with this proposal in order to clearly indicate what is a circle of political responsibilities, which, however, falls within the sphere of the administration or the professional one, and I think that the proposer of these issues, establishing a circle of those persons in articles if I am not mistaken for these questions, of course there are constant objections here, but as this is the first reading, we of the HDZ Club will try to correct that text and these norms. Another group of questions is the following, the act itself of handing over authorities has always been without any norms, the Constitution does not say anything about it, other regulations do not speak, politely and without problems. But it happened in 2003 and we'll hear tomorrow when she adopts the budget she's brought. I'd say that individuals who acted most in government duties forgot the basic postulates of democracy, forgot that they had been given a term of office for a certain period of time. THAT'S HOW WE'RE GONNA HEAR TOMORROW AND I'M GONNA... First, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, adopted an ambitious programme for small economy development from 2003 to 2006 on 29 May 2003. May 29th immediately ahead of the upcoming elections. This is the first time something like this has happened in the modern Croatian state, and I am not familiar with any document from the practice of European democracies that has done so in this way. He did not strangely draw much attention to the Croatian public in particular to any attention from Croatian media. Another case that speaks for itself enough and if only it were enough reason to alarm Croatia, I would say both political and scientific and all the public. Mr. Racan, the president then acted as Technical Government in either resignation or departure from the Croatian government. On 4 December 2003, the government adopted a plan and a programme for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar for the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008. National newspaper No. 198 since 19 December 2003. Also at the conference, giving a statement to reporters in Vukovar on December 7th, Racan said, quote. I'm sorry, I can't find the text, but I'll say it briefly. So he said: “In the next four years, the government will invest more than a billion dollars in the reconstruction of Vukovar. On 8 December, all daily newspapers in the Republic of Croatia delivered such a statement. So Racan was at a time when he was acting as Prime Ministers in departure, so even at a time when the new prime minister was appointed three days before the new Parliament was established, a document was published, a program that weighs billions and a half of kuna. I'm just wondering here that it doesn't misread which government and who he meant when he said the government was going to invest a billion and a half kuna over the next four years. If he meant the HDZ government, the government of Dr. Sanader, then he was right. And finally, this reason is enough for us to pass this Law on the transfer of power. I would not talk about other details except that I hope that we will reach a consensus on this, and as far as the bill that regulates this same issue by the HSP is concerned, I think that the government's proposal is better, more complete, and in this sense, that perhaps, with some kind of improvement until the 2nd reading, we could accept it by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3603	Thank you very much, Mr. Boras. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Boras has said to nothing that he is not aware that such similar development programmes have not been adopted in the countries of the European Union. I'm sorry it's not familiar to him, but I want to tell him that the Small Economy Development Programme was passed under a law adopted by this House, that it's perfectly normal for him to refer to a period of four years and it's perfectly normal because it was passed in May last year, and it's also known that the elections could have been in May next year. What does that mean? That we should have waited for the elections and the mandate of the new government, and the mandate of the new government to bring in a quality programme. It is also incorrect that the programme did not raise public attention. Yes, he challenged the public's attention because, fortunately thanks to the previous programme that was well realized, 49,000 new jobs were opened. We created 184 zones for small entrepreneurship, about 7 billion kuna loans are divided by craftsmen, small and medium entrepreneurs and so on. God forbid there are such programs in the Croats even if they're being brought in at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3605	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Sima Luč's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there were several false allegations. Here, I'll just hang out for two. We've got to break that name down about the supervisory boards and the former ministers on the boards. Some ministers are on the board of supervisors, Mr. Representative, for a simple reason, because the government hasn't found time to relieve them yet. All the ministers on the boards of directors are named after the government. If we already want to talk openly about supervisory committees, then it is clear and loud: by 1998 there were no representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and of the minister who did not sit on at least 3 supervisory boards and who did not receive any fat fees. These ministers who've been sitting on the boards for the past four years, I've been sitting in one. I didn't even drink coffee at the expense of the company I was sitting in. Another blames the allegations about what the former government has been doing for the past month? Please take the Croatian government's record and you'll read it. All the conclusions on the financial commitments made had one clause: if confirmed by the future government. Ask your prime minister, he'll confirm it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3607	Thank you. Mrs. Antunovic asked for a replica, but unfortunately there is no replica on the basis of a basic exhibition. A representative from the HSP Club, Mr Slaven Letica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3608	I'm glad the promoter of the club that was never in power so he can't go, what you did on January 3rd, what you did in 1990 is a comfortable position. So as far as the idea of reaching a consensus is concerned, it is ideal, but it cannot be methodologically achieved in the way that the esteemed representative Boras said: “Our proposal is better than that proposal”. So consensus can be reached on compromise. This is not just about the proposal of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority but about the principle of the two branches of government; the executive authority that proposes this high house and the proposal that comes from the higher home itself. The only question is institutional loyalty so that this high house can teach the executive authority a lesson to leave some initiative to us. It would be good to compromise in the following way that perhaps, on the basis of today's debate, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system may make a compromise solution, because that is what this is really about. There's a lot more touch points than it looks. First of all, there is a political will to take care of this area. It's a very important fact. In 1986, I was in Ukraine with a delegation of Croatian scientists and I asked people there how, how do you circle the elites? As they change, no, I actually asked how the elites orbit? They say, “We don’t understand”. I say: “How can you not understand? “I say, “How is the government being replaced?” “A” says “those who are not in power kill those who are in power and take power.” So it's a much worse situation than we do when it comes to cleaning people up. As for more serious matters, the state of the Croatian public administration is disastrous. There are no public administration institutes, there is no specialized even legal education for public administration, there is no specialized economic... in Croatia there are 12 people who deal with public finances, 9 are members of HDZ or sympathisers, 7 I consulted them, none of them have consulted more seriously in the process of adopting proposals of the state budget. So what's very important is that we start working seriously on the state administration, and that can be done, we need to create a culture of institutional loyalty and build the stability of institutions. More importantly, both proposals went too deep in defining the differences that Damir Cain spoke of from two different perspectives on two occasions. On behalf of the promoters, we must thank the SDP and HSS clubs that gave priority to ours, Shime, don't laugh. Because yesterday we'll talk more about it. So, who gave the support. Namely, it's about the next one. In 1992, as part of that old phar program aware of the confusion of these political elite killings, the OEC, along with the phar programme, built a programme called Sigma. Sigma was a program, a relationship arrangement called handing over power to an old communist vocabulary, it was like... etc. So it's about the power transfer process. And they said the following. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to ensure institutional and management autonomy of public administration institutions. They're in our new terminology, they're all agencies of government, they're being seduced by central state institutions. What does the Director of the Croatian Institute of Public Health have to do with the shifts? What does the Director of the Croatian National Statistics Institute have to do with the shift? What does my dean or Director Rebra have to do with shifts? So, the mistake was made in the '90s, the late president and I sat down and we said, we're not gonna lock anyone up, if we lock someone up, they all come to power later. And because of that, maybe we didn't, maybe for a few hours we closed someone up, maybe a lot of problems would be solved. Then came this clientalist power, there were many. and they were nervous and went too far on shifts in 2000. She's right. She's a colleague of Petricevic, she says, she's replaced so many ambassadors, sent people out there without foreign languages, they can't defend our interests, they've never been to Paris, they've never been to the casino, they come in there, they're scared, they come home, they're scared of their own people, like those men who are humiliated at work, they come home and beat up children and women. So, in that sense, I think that defining the relationship between professional autonomy, public administration and the state in a narrow sense, I have to do at the level of serious work. Because every existing government speaking the way Mr. Boras used to say, which I like is a man, a position, a conjecture for cleaning up to three, four years. We must protect it, because it is absurd and I end it, that only those institutions that are protected by the international community are protected in Croatia. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank, therefore behind it stands the International Monetary Fund Director of Croatian Television in principle, because behind it stands I do not know the Council of Europe or whoever you want. But these unfortunates don't, no one smart today will be the head of one hospital, no one will be smart in Croatia today at the head of sports alliances. Because every new political elite thinks it does, it must have its president of the Croatian Olympic Committee. This is what I set up in some way and he's disappointed. But what we can do, that's fate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3609	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Slaven Letica. To correct an incorrect quote, right? Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3610	Mr. Letica, my dear colleague, my dear colleague. The former ambassadors and the general consuls did not return because they were as you said "unwritten" under the supposed signs, they did not know, but returned them, beware, but returned them because of the belonging of the Croatian Democratic Community, the party, not I say under the supposed signs, it was one. And they were leaving their jugodiplomats, so Mr. Coli Picula, who is sitting here right now in our representative benches, I think he's carrying on his soul several such fates that are not so simple and easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3611	Thank you. It's on behalf of the Club of Libre, the esteemed representative William Herman. I apologize, before one notification that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3612	Mr. President, actually the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think that we are discussing two laws that are not only welcome, but should have a significant impact on the social atmosphere, on the political atmosphere, actually relate literally to the way between people to fix these relationships between people, because indeed in Croatia elections are seen as elemental disasters, especially for those who have lost and then there is a lot that actually feels in human souls the simplest way, as literally fear. And if this wasn't said so clearly, I don't think it would actually be about the subject and these two laws, or their matter, either honestly or openly. It's really happening that there's a syntagma. Well, here's ours now, and we have a real chance. What does this real opportunity really mean, and what will be the real opportunity? It's a notorious question, one called legal security on one side of the institutions, their missing authority, but also the legal certainty of the individual, all the way to truly personal integrity. So if what I said first is true, that there is this anger, that uncertainty, which is actually the result of the election, then, and just as the impression that it's true, it's too important to actually enter into, not only a serious debate, but also in an attempt to create, I would call it a kind of social contract, which will allow this matter to be regulated, not as a competition of different laws, which is not, of course, bad, but actually as a kind of social contract that solves issues of the social atmosphere, which solves issues of the authority of the state institutions, and of course, which solves no less important question of dignity of a person. That's why I think political arrangements are needed. I think they are needed in one broad way, and it will not be enough to stick only to what is a matter of procedure in this House, first reading, and second reading, of course, that procedure is inevitable, but it is necessary to agree equally in political arrangements in a broad way that can actually be something under the social contract or the convention of conduct in the transfer or handover of power. Here, even in the name of these two laws trying to create a rivalry relationship where the HSP promoter is not at all responsible for... rivalry because this later proposal wants to differ even by title. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? There is no serious law that calls this law a wise proposal, a law on the transfer and handover of power. Would any of the promoters feel hurt about it? But of course this icon only to show that in cooperation relations without therefore unnecessary rivalry, this important substance has to be solved. But sometimes it seems and it is an attempt to answer the question of how we are in a relatively mature age as it is pathetically said Croatian democracy trying to pass this law. And here, to be honest, consistent should be said that in one way or another, the political elite simply replied that this area was not fully defined and even less legally regulated. Because every legal regulation creates legal certainty, definition, game rules and as much certainty as possible. The area of uncertainty seems to fit the political elites because the next step that allows when a particular area is being unsecured is that the political elite simply arbitration. Every complaint of arbitration, of course, endangers once again the authority of the institutions, equally legal security, to what offends or damages personal dignity and integrity. Let me also say a few remarks, the transfer of power after parliamentary elections, or the formation of a new parliamentary majority was not the subject of legislative legislation. And the transition period, this is why ours suffers criticisms that were not too much to be heard from both the public and the NGOs and international circles. In order to further develop and strengthen democracy, the rule of law as well as the political responsibilities of the forces that leave their positions and those that are subject to a conflict between them and the security of persons employed in the system of state administration, this area must therefore, clearly and unequivocally be regulated. Of course, the most important issues and dilemmas are aimed at the administrative, political, human and time dimension of the transfer of power. It is undeniable that the transfer of power should reflect the effective and uninterrupted functioning of the state administration system during the transitional period, the government's action in... in accordance with the Syntagma, the Technical Government and the clear demarcation of political and public officials or professional duties and without prejudice to the functioning of the state administration during the said period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, very simply, the transfer of power should be swift, efficient, comprehensive, publicly transparent and consistent with the addition of duties at all legally envisaged levels. And, of course, that's where the drama comes in. Therefore, the proposed legislation, perhaps a concrete proposal on the transfer of power, are made clear and are nomotechnically arranged but have, there are also reasons for certain objections. Here, just for example. By observing the parallel solutions, I hold that in this law one and the other should contain guidance in the necessity of building a career diplomatic network in Croatia. That was just before. I'm not sure there were any words in the right way. And then, in turn, a clear determination of quotas that are possible and acceptable in the context of shifts in the diplomatic network, for example. in the UK, Ireland or Australia, even 95% of diplomats are professional diplomats. The Republic of Croatia, as a country of limited financial opportunities, must act necessarily towards building a professional, career diplomatic network regardless of political changes and of course shifts. By prescribing quotas that are permitted in the context of change and transfer of authorities, it would avoid uncertainty in the pursuit of diplomatic services and save significant material resources aimed at systematic education of professional diplomats rather than short-term expensive and insufficiently effective, under quotes of "expanded" courses intended for so-called "expansion". Contract diplomats. The dilemma that has shown itself in the presentation of several colleagues and I fully agree that it is a dilemma is the story of professionals in the state administration but I think it is a position to talk about professionals in the state administration and also about the level of shift until a consistent and comprehensive reform of the state administration is carried out that has been announced. There have been proposals to make a full proposal in this assembly, it hasn't happened yet. The only thing that has happened is that here and there, with the reduction of ministries and in fact the increased number of employees, something that is not even like reform, the reform of the state administration. Therefore, the issue of professionals in the state administration and the resolution of their status or change in this law is not actually possible, it is not possible to be honest and responsible unless a reform of the state administration is previously implemented. This will only be a pose, a principle legal solution without actually being able to achieve the desired effects. It is also right and we agree with this highlighted question and what about those levels that belong to the counties or rather I would like to hear and tell the regional levels and local levels which are today the area of total legal uncertainty. Examples that illustrate gentlemen’s relations in this area or in that area can be discussed, but such individual examples could prove to be quite the opposite. Right where there was no gentlemanhood or where certain knights acted as they did. We Slavons like to read this knight as sheriff. It is therefore that this area should also be regulated whether in this matter or in the matter of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government it is entirely irrelevant but in this area it is also necessary to do everything about legal certainty. It was said at one point that if I'm not mistaken, the proposer on behalf of the HSP Club that 90% of the matter is actually identical to the proposed law to the one proposed by the Government. It's denied by the motionors, by the government, and now should probably fall some light consultation and see what the statistical data is actually accurate. But it's obvious that there's some statistical data that we're working on. Is that 90% or 50% we don't know exactly. But it is interesting that the proposer, or government, did not have the need to examine that percentage. And then he actually went to the raggedy of what the Club Libre is trying to pawn. And that's to happen some kind of social contract as the first part of the convention here agreeing on fundamental issues in our Parliament. And then one step further may also be a public debate and thus create two necessary circumstances. First, to include indeed the public to judge this matter, and then to ultimately achieve a second reading. And that's to get a lot of what I firmly repeat three times, something that not only reminds but really is a social contract. Is it possible to go that way in Croatia and do something that will remind you of the real pedagogy? If we're so complaining that there's no rule of law we weren't from these clubs and this place from this chat room should have gone on a message like this. So it's very important that there's a legal thing going on, and the task here should be, with the rest, that legal pedagogy. Here's to 'cause okay, with the talker. Thank you very much. Klub LIBRE will support the HSP proposal, will support the HSP proposal with a request with a cover, of course, it has no other effects except that it seems nice to agree and possibly have in mind some other proposals that have come on my part immodestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3613	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. On behalf of Klub HSPa, the word has a distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3614	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of the club, I will first of all look back at the government's proposal for a law on the process of handing over power. And it's a lot easier for me to talk about in terms of how it's a bad proposal than it was for Mr. Boras who had to defend it on behalf of the HDZ. Or that there is Mr. Palaric, who must do the same on official duty. In fact, what we see here in these series of legislative proposals when the opposition comes with its proposal, then the government better wants to respond to such a proposal. And make a trap for yourself that he can't get out of a coke. I suggest to the government to stick to her program of work that she promised us here and the proposals coming from the opposition can be encrypted, say she will take over in the second reading. And not to put yourself in a position to essentially blaspheme in a way that gives regulations to the proposals of the killings that are essentially so badly made that the word is a baffled mild word. Why would I say that? The first thing that's good at this. It's a good constitutional basis, it's a good assessment of the situation, but we're going to some basic questions. Veli, the basic issues proposed to regulate this Act and now says the course of the procedure for the transfer of power, about the circumstances in which the procedure continues. And what's forgotten, one important part is forgotten if it wants to do it professionally and qualityly how it's done and simulated. The period since the election is called, this is a very important period that must be resolved by this law as to why it does the regulation for the legal forces and other things that the Government continues to exercise its powers. In a way that democratically all agreed on what and in what form and how it can act during this period. Can a regulation with a legal power go in a way that changes the essence and essence of the law, or just some of the most necessary things. And normally that's what the government said nicely in that part of the basis of the questions. And now we come to the very proposal of the law. And he says the law normly that it would be a different law than ours, if they, the government gave it the same, then that's not it. It's got to be different in that too. And now smart people take it and say it in the government I mean, a bill on the process of handing over power. And now let's take any languageists, any man off the road, and ask him if the notion of power transfer is ever more involved than the procedure itself of handing over power. And everyone's gonna say it, 'cause this is just the part. And of course only part of that direct part is me to you. We're handing over the records, and that's the situation. Why did I say that I was glad to admire Mr. Boras for having the strength to defend the government's draft law, because he, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, had to sign the pronouns on behalf of the Legislative Committee, and it is evident that the Committee for Legislative Affairs itself, although this is a mild thing, can be said roughly that it is not right. THE Committee’s comments on the 10th article are normally the tenth, when the law comes into force, on eight articles. Then it is already visible how stronger and what law is the word. So imagine when the first article has an observation because it is not defined which one circle of persons If we were to literally turn out it would or would be visible not to refer to ministers. If we literally translate to read this article first. And now that it's going on, let's get to the second article. It is also done in a hurry, so it is said that the authorities are handing over the performance after the Croatian Parliament's constitution, after the conduct of parliamentary elections as well as by formulating a new executive authority. And now I wonder when he's performing. Is that what you need to know two different situations? The Assembly may be established, but the new executive power is not appointed. There is a mandated assembly being established, the prime minister is unable to put the government together, what the president of the country is doing is giving the second term. Is that right, and now that it begins under this bill that part of the law, if one part of it starts safely as soon as the Parliament is established, it should be said to what extent it begins. So most importantly, the most important thing by us is that we are here and most agreed towards the Croatian people that when the Croatian Parliament adopts regulations, let us give and simulate what the provision will mean in practice and implementation. Is this visible that it's really messed up? And now let's move on the situation there are saying, mandate is being made available. Now it doesn't say how you put it on the table. If we're going to regulate it, whether it's written or not, that's how the logic of things was written, what if someone won't put a mandate at their disposal. There's nothing planned for this situation. Are you careful there may be a variant of someone in a public enterprise or one of these officials will not put a mandate at their disposal. A legal situation is possible, right? Then what does it mean? It wasn't the law that was passed on to him. Because he won't put a mandate at his disposal. Is it said in the part where someone put a mandate at their disposal then the government has to say within 30 days they can even keep it, and can say it's being resolved. And what in this situation you didn't predict. So these are the legal situations that are like this and what, we have another variant now. Veli, the government operating the mandate is appointed, the parliament was established, and now it must negotiate with the mandate during that period over all these capital and large decisions. So what happens now if that prime minister fails to put the government together and he misinformed them, then some other prime minister comes. Who will now be responsible for all these situations that have arisen. According to this, this attempt has turned out so badly that all one provision is missing and then the matter has been tried to save what, Article 9 and says all the provisions of this Act have to be interpreted in favour of achieving also the state of regular and uninterrupted action of state bodies and the exercise of state and other duties. That's what war would say, this directive. So it would be some kind of directive that I've never seen before in the regulations in the Republic of Croatia, but apparently some new legal papers are being introduced. Therefore, it is visible from all this part that our law of the HSP club is far more complete and I think that the government would, on principle of morality and I suggest that it withdraws its bill of law, that our first reading goes through and the government assumes the obligation to make the right law, because this way, the government steps up, I don't think it fits the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3615	I thank the esteemed representative Kovacevic. With this, we've exhausted the club debates and we're moving on to an individual debate for ten minutes. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3616	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that we have opened a debate on these two draft laws that are actually trying to resolve the process of handing over authorities, such as the name of the law proposed by the Government, namely the transfer of power proposed by the HSP club. I think it's good because now we're at the beginning of the mandate and we have enough time to have some of the choices that may be made by them extraordinary or regular we can discuss this matter well and bring the best solution. So I think that regardless of what the Government and the HSP are proposing in the first reading, it might be good to have a previous debate about it, and then, on the basis of the debate and these two proposals, we try to come up with such a bill that will really solve these problems. The problem of handing over authorities is always tied up after the elections, and that is if a new political option comes to power. We had this for the first time in 1990 and then only after 10 years in 2000 and now in 2004. When we do not have a legal solution to these issues, then always in public, any change in the state administration or in other state institutions can open a debate on possible rematch or that the political option that is in power actually wants to bring people their political orientations. I think that, in fact, as part of the reform of the state administration, it would be necessary to establish the systematisation of business and public tendering. In fact, we would be in a situation where, in those most professional jobs, both in the state administration and in the state institutions, any changes come only after the end of the mandate or in the assessment of inadequate or poor professional conduct. It should be settled what is the political level of performance and then those are the jobs or those officials who, in the case of a change of government, are subject to a political assessment after the election of their position. I therefore think that and as far as Article 5 of the Law proposed by the Government is concerned, at the time, we could distinguish what professional jobs would be completed through public competitions with adequate expertise that would prescribe adequate expertise and adequate work experience, which would be political functions that would be determined and changed after the election. So very briefly to conclude. I don't think we're mature that at this point based on the kind of proposal the government made, we can accept the bill in the first reading. I think that this debate and both proposals should be used, because HSP colleagues are slightly broader in regulation of this matter and only then can we come up with a bill of law, or a law that would be discussed again in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3617	I thank the esteemed representative Zgrebec. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. It's Mr. Leco's honorary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I won't be talking about this bill for long, but I have to say in a certain way that I'm surprised by the debate of the HDZ Club on the proposal of this law. I'm sorry if I misunderstood the debate, but it's my impression that this debate was going this way. We were given the right to manage the state no matter what it was before, so the HDZ representative was surprised that the previous government had adopted a programme that would invest in Vukovar as if it had been a violation of the discontinuity of state law, and it was not disputed that the coalition and therefore suffered criticism from the citizens might have lost power in these elections, which all the legal acts respected and implemented by the Croatian government, the HDZ government had brought ten years and had not occurred to her, although there was reason to annul some acts, to say it was brought by the HDZ government. It was a state government and state legal acts are valid for every government otherwise there's no point in talking about the rule of law and the rule of law if we don't set things up. Another thesis. The handover of the authorities is not a staff issue, although it now looks very significant. It is important for those who have to leave each position or those who have to come to a particular position, but for the citizens, for the state, for the right, for the rule of law, for the rule of law, it is less important and the transfer of power has to mean precisely the transfer of the obligation of continuity, the continuity of human beings has to be understood and change is another question and, of course, we need to discuss it, but the transfer of power is a slightly broader problem than the change of people themselves. I, of course, think that it's a very important legal certainty, so I'm also pushing for laws and regulations to be passed that will settle the issue and the staff change, the human dimension of the change of government, but if we bring it down to that alone, we won't solve the problem. In other words, it would be necessary to try and determine when it comes to the period when certain acts are not adopted, which is the period, which means the transitional period, which means the Technical Government which I disagree with the HDZ Club's qualification that it was a technical government, because it is about the mandate and the right and obligations of the Government to address issues that are on the agenda. One more thing. The transfer of power is, of course, not only at the state level, although it is the most attractive. The transfer of power takes place at all levels, local, regional and national levels and of course the principles on the transfer of power should be installed for all levels, for all levels and for the humane dimension of the government's handover also for all levels. If we continue this way of debate, I think we would cloud the problem which could damage the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because it could be understood that each subsequent government has no obligation to implement the decisions and acts of the previous government. I hope that no one in the Parliament thinks that, therefore, I would pray when it comes to the transfer of power to take into account the international position, that is, the international position of the Croatian government, and that they will be respected in the full amount that has been taken over, regardless of what the Government has signed, we have treated and treated the state's obligations, please continue to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3619	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. It's our guest, Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3620	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The initiative to pass the Law on Transfer of Authorities after the elections are held in the Republic of Croatia should be supported no matter what side the initiative comes from. Croatia is a small country with slightly less than 4 and a half million inhabitants. With all the unsettled natural resources of this comparative advantage that we have as a country, our greatest wealth is our own. We simply have to take care of the human resources we possess, because only using the common sense we possess can we create assumptions for the construction of society, which should ultimately ensure a better life for all of our citizens. We can't throw away any man as an only child. Staff who, after a change of authority, leave office immediately shall not be considered to be rejected or discriminated against. Their brains, knowledge and experience must be operational. In order to avoid accusations and negative antagonisms that sometimes almost lead not only to opposition but almost to hatred among former friends, it is necessary to define the rules of the game really all, or mostly all functions on which the election results are based. In this case, the individual is clearly and consciously following a specific political option, by coming and the political options to power are being implemented by its political programme, which has received majority support from the electoral body, and by coming down and the options from the authorities are leaving the post as well. These are the rules, which have been agreed in advance, the transfer of power is done without trauma and trestle, the charges of rematchism and the chicaning of people who unfortunately in our society of insufficient democratic traditions have disappeared. The sequence of personnel was carried out throughout the period 1990 to 2000. Advocating the rules of the game, in the absence of these rules, it is my right to think and to express my thought here in this Croatian Assembly that there may have been individual errors after January 3rd but I am also convinced that the changes after January 3rd were neither fast enough nor comprehensive and that it was precisely thanks to the democracy and tolerance of Ivica Racan, that many of the personnel who were to be replaced and to leave the functions and places they held had not left those places and I was aware of that floor where the 3 January authorities had to put their backs. In the current situation when we do not have the rules of the game again, my democratic right to think, unfortunately, that negative practice continues today. I have absolutely no objection to professional affairs, as said personnel who will implement HDZ policy but I am convinced that for the community it is harmful members, for example, of administrative councils in the 8th constituency at the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre to change it because of political belonging, especially in the situation when it comes to the mayor and mayor. However, I am free to refer to Article 134(2). The Croatian Constitution, which I quote, states: "It is an obligation and the right of regional self-government to carry out, among other things, health-related jobs." Health care is an activity that is of priority to our citizens and should enable units of regional self-government to exercise that right, but I am convinced that the obligations of the state must also impose, impose health care on them, including through the participation of mayors and mayors in the administrative councils of clinical, for example the Clinical Hospital Centre, because I think that it is in this place that they must give their pain to the development of health care and not that in this lack of rules of the game to be replaced and perhaps that I can't give that assessment possibly incompetent personnel. In addition to cutting down people that are not subject to the rules of the game at the state level, it is even more prominent that the cut of personnel at local and regional level, where various local sheriffs are simply living after the change of government. It is my suggestion that, after the adoption of the Law on Change of Government at national level, certain rules of the game are adopted at both local and regional level, where it is also necessary to know who is leaving and who remains a change of government. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, with the aim of introducing rules of the game and allowing democratic change of power after the elections or after the formation of the majority, while at the same time preserving our human resources, it is necessary to adopt this Law. I agree with Mr. Rožić's assessment that the amendment to the government could indeed intervene in the proposal of the Croatian party's representative club and achieve that this Law could be passed by consensus in this House of Honor. I am convinced and I appeal to the second reading to find a way to achieve what I am in my brief debate, which is identical in a few with the discussion of other colleagues regardless of party membership to be passed. And in that sense, and expecting that it will be right away, I think there is likely to be a printing error in the proposal which the Croatian Party has submitted in Articles 4 and 5, it has been inverted by citing points 3 and 4 of Article 1 of that Bill proposal, so if it is discussed and it is in a position to bring it forward to correct it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3621	I'd like to thank the trained representative. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3622	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I really wouldn't be much longer after these exhaustive debates, but let me, given that this is the first reading I have to present, and I believe that we all agreed that this regulation should actually be passed, and what are the reasons why I should dare say as soon as possible or in the legal procedure. The first reasons are of course the legal nature because we have not had such regulations until now, of course. So it fills one legal void. A relationship that has not been regulated so far has been regulated. One legal uncertainty is removed even existential uncertainty and so on. The second reason for me is of course a political sociological nature and it is expressed in the fact that the handover of the government is not a single political option with the other, therefore some sort of rematch or cleanup, but rather a democratic act of changing power. Both third and no less important in terms of the need to adopt this Law, which is the achievement in this area of such relations in society that are at the level of the countries of long-standing democratic traditions. As regards the very proposal or text of the law, the bill which the Government of Croatia has given us or the subaract, we have heard a lot of this today, however, I also recognize in it a certain normative quality, of course, although which may still need some improvement in those fines, but the proposal of this law clearly defines when the handover of the government or that time dimension occurs, so let me actually say that, under those provisions of this Bill, this is the case by the constitution of the Croatian Parliament and by the formation of a new executive government, but another concept or element by me is important, where the day of the election is determined or determined as the start of the handover period where we actually have the regulation of the government's activities with two principled prohibitions. So bans on making decisions on appointments by the Government. It's like a principle ban. We have exceptions, of course, in that sphere. We have, of course, a ban on making decisions or making contracts on investment of a more significant value. So these are the elements in my opinion that the time scale itself contributes to the handover of the authorities, but there are also those provisions that work out exactly which state officials make available and in which time limits, which are also important for me, are regulated by the working-legal status of state officials who have put their mandate at their disposal. Is he in the right way in view of these other regulations that regulate this area? We leave it to the government's professional services to see since it's a first reading, but I don't think this is a legal solution or a proposal, and it's not that bad or bad. And no doubt that it is separated by the very application of the Law itself by a political function from professional or professional functions. Without such a law or the application of this Law, we simply but may be in a situation to decide but this distinction will now be either separate from the basis of the regulation itself and some doubt should not be, although I agree with all those who have discussed it in the sense that the right level of incurring in, in, as far as the structure itself is concerned, the administrative organisations themselves, especially when it comes to whether it can be one step more or less, given that it is the first reading I assume that the professional services of the Government will finally or perhaps another point of view. And finally to conclude with, in the sense of handing over the authorities or applying this regulation, it is always necessary to consider, of course, the necessity of the functioning of the system of administration in continuity. Something about it was our forewords or a lot of them were talking about. It should certainly be borne in mind that even by handing over the government must not particularly take place in the sphere of state administration any discontinuity or any interruption of certain activities. On the contrary, that the life of the administration itself should not stand in or in any realm. I don't think anyone mentioned that this is actually about organic law. So it's one constitutional category that involves, of course, not one form of consensus in itself, but one broad discussion. This is only the first reading and it is my wish and I personally hope that in one such debate, in such an atmosphere, the legislator will find the most optimal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3623	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3624	Prime Minister so I think it is necessary to say that in Croatia the exchange of power is no longer in question, I mean that democratic shift of power. I am also convinced that this democratic progress in Croatia that we were able to hear about four years ago a story about how HDZ will prevent the transfer of power, will not allow a normal, peaceful transfer of power now... One extension that appears precisely in this matter that these two bill proposals offer us. [[You don't understand a word.]] By disbanding the parliament and calling elections in Croatia because of the situation still in the political arena and lack of political culture, Croatia is always entering a period of serious political instability. The additional reason for instability is certainly high politicisation and low level of expertise of the Croatian public administration. This particular part is very important when it comes to the adoption of this Law, which two proposals are now under discussion. We want as a stable democratic state in any case to respect the principles on which public administration will operate. First of all, the principles of its competence and political neutrality as it will only allow public administration to function as an element of the stability of the political system. Unfortunately, we do not have or have very few political neutral public administrations in Croatia, and the principle of competence is rarely respected in the promotion of public officials. Part of the public administration has been a good part since before 1990, I don't like to go back to those periods, but I think it needs to be mentioned because he's been hostile to the current administration all along, and the end of her term of office just sharpened the obstruction that such administration could not limit. A part of public officials during these 14 years of democracy in Croatia owed their promotion within the system and owed the current administration, current ministers and felt attached to it which led to political subordination. These relationships were very often personal, personal because gratitude was owed to or owed to a specific minister or faction within some of the parties or politicians who were in power at that time. And the additional reason in any case such instability and uncertainty stems from the fact that Croatia does not have a regulated process of transfer of power and that there are no ordinary nor regulated exactly to the end of what a technical government should do and what it must not do. For this reason, I think it is necessary to agree this law in the second reading both on the part of the government's proposal and on the part of the Croatian party's proposal. And if indeed it were exactly what we could hear today from the opposition benches how much better the HSP proposal is. I ask myself why two years ago when this proposal was found in the legal procedure, and when it was proposed to be on the Parliament's agenda, then the government, and today's opposition didn't react in the same way, it means two years ago it passed a law like this. and lastly, just another suggestion to the representatives of the Central Office of State Administration. I ask that, as soon as you find people, because I see that the burden that you are exposed to the very laws that you have to write, leads to the fact that the new 10 articles of the law personally have a terrible amount of objections to the nomotechnical nature, and I think that's just the reason that some things just run away from you, so in the second reading, suggest a law in a nomotechnical sense as we expect it to be as parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3625	Thank you. There are no more registered deputies. Does the Proposer want a representative? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3626	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank all those who supported the need to pass laws governing the procedure for handing over authorities, regardless of what the law will ultimately be called. We will not engage in the evaluation of the value of the second law, the law of the Croatian party's representative. We're a little surprised by the level of discussion that evaluated this bill. The rules of nomotechnics are not prescribed anywhere, this has passed and the Office of the Government's Legislatives, anyone can have an opinion on it. But in the second reading, we will strive to install, elaborate, think. But we want to stress that our law is more comprehensive, that only the question of picking up functions that people who have to leave their posts, that the practice has already solved it, and that this cannot be the focus of the law, but rather the creation of obligations to the future government, the appointment at a time when there is no political control and other issues that propose to regulate this law are, in fact, crucial to the government, not the taking of functions themselves. It's a matter of conventions, I think the practice has already arranged enough for Croatia to have no rematchism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3627	Thank you very much. He wants another representative of the draft law? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3628	Thank you, colleague Nenadić. We're moving on to the debate. The next is you, therefore, Mr. Zeljko Nenadić. Mr. Nenadic, it's your turn to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3629	Proposal for a law on the transfer of power, first reading, P.Z. Number 13. The proposed law is the Club of HSP Representatives. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the transfer of power proposed by the HSP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the reports of the working authorities and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 77 votes in favour and 24 against the adopted conclusion on the proposed text. Comrades and colleagues, let's get back to work! As we said and agreed, we're going to the agenda. We have these two draft laws: Proposal for a Law on Transfer of Authorities - Proposer: Club of HSP Representatives, first reading, P.Z. No. 13 Proposal for a Code of Procedure to hand over authorities, first reading, P.Z. No. 30. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I propose in accordance with Article 223. Rules of procedure, as was the case with these earlier three laws, to conduct a united debate on this bill because they treat the same matter, with representatives of clubs having extended 5 minutes to discuss the rules of procedure for a unified debate. If the Parliament agrees, then we could move to a debate united on these two laws. I see there are no other suggestions. We're moving on to a united debate. - Proposal for a Law on Transfer of Authorities - Proposer: Club of Representatives of HSP, first reading, P.Z. No. 13 - Proposal for a Law on the procedure of handing over authorities, first reading, P.Z. No. 30 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like a representative of the HSP Representatives' Club to take your word for it. Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3631	Thank you very much, Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The proposal of the Law on Transfer of Government is also one of the projects of the Croatian Party of Law or the Club of HSP in the Croatian Parliament which has its own history and is not as old as this previous one we talked about for three years, this one is somewhat younger. So it's only somewhere in a time when, for example, it can walk with less fear, so somewhere around two years old, it's just a little over two years old. But here he came into the procedure finally, although he was already on two occasions on the Parliament's agenda in that last meeting, here he is again and finally we can discuss him. Of course, this bill of law was submitted by the HSP Club before last session, but, of course, within the business period, it was only now, and in the meantime, the government from last session to this one made a bill that I could actually say in 90% of the content entirely identical to the proposal, to our proposal. There are a few things that we have written in reasoning, and not as articles, but without any problems, our draft law was practically aware of in this proposed by the Government with only one amendment containing what the Government in its proposal wrote in Articles 4 and 5, I mean, not in Articles 3 and 4. So, with one government amendment this law could already be discussed, but here we were waiting for the government to practically say my proposal which is almost identical in 90%, so I'm going to give an explanation of what I hope the government won't repeat after me. Therefore, the legal regulation of the transfer of power is equally important for the development of democracy in Croatia as well as for the legal regulation of the democratic shift of power through a package of laws in connection with the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and this was the reason why we actually proposed this law. The transfer of power to the Republic of Croatia was state-level after the elections for the Croatian Parliament, either after the formation of the new parliamentary majority in the Croatian Parliament was not regulated by any law by this time, so we witnessed two meetings before, or at the constitutive session itself here, the fact that the Law on Government had to be amended because the current ministers were still ministers, they could not be representatives, etc. So we wanted to regulate it in a certain way with this law. After the elections on January 3, 2000, the Croatian public was precisely for the reason that this area was not regulated by any law on various contradictory charges from one end and from the other end of the political scene, so those who came to power after the elections also came down from the authorities. There was talk of political cleanups, of rematchism. On the other hand, there was a need to replace people where the right professional people should come into positions. There have been talk of shifts not due to expertise but because of political similarity, there has been talk of nepotism and everything and the club of HSP, for this reason, submitted a proposal for a Law on the Transfer of Authorities or made a proposal for a Law on Transfer of Authorities in order to, in a certain way, work out or lay down the rules of the game, better said to establish the rules under which the shift of power takes place. What the simple dictionary can say is that there should be a legal basis by which any state official who has been appointed or elected to that office or appointed to the supervisory board of state firms or similar places should actually know and each of the civil servants would have to know whether those people who after the election need to pack bags, store pictures of their family from the writing tables in cardboard boxes and carry these or are those people who can actually stay in their jobs, wait for the new administration, the state administration and during that time ensure the smooth work of the state administration which, of course, must not be violated in any way. This law actually has several dimensions. He does not only have his own political but he also has his own administrative and human resources and time scale. Therefore, with political certainty, the most important or important administrative dimension, which is, in fact, that the transfer of power on the one hand needs to meet the need for an effective and uninterrupted functioning of the state administration system during this change of government. Which would actually mean looking or expecting or trying to make it so that there are minimal personnel changes in the transfer of power. On the other hand, the transfer of power should enable a new parliamentary majority of the elections and supervision of all segments of the executive authority they consider decisive, which therefore requires, or would require maximum possible staff changes. To reconcile these two mutually conflicted attitudes is an attempt at this legislative proposal. That is why, in our court, it is necessary for the consensus of parliamentary parties to determine to what level resolutions and appointments should be implemented in the system of governmental administration. This proposal by the government actually shows that, ha, I'm not going to say it shows, but, behold, it raises suspicion that this consensus will not be reached this time, unfortunately. For that reason, the level we have affected by our bill to these staff checks is approximately the level that modern European countries have. I'll just say that we've been motivated by practices like Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Canada, Australia, Belgium and the United States. And we tried from these practices actually to make a proposal that would be the most similar to that model that we have in the neighbouring country of Slovenia which, for example, I will tell you that our bill makes me absolutely concrete, covering around 270 civil servants and civil servants. And that, for example, in Slovenia, which is quite as well as you know a smaller state and has a smaller number of inhabitants in fact and a different organised state administration with far fewer officials in Slovenia is such a law covering about 3 hundred government officials and 8 charming officials. Thus, this coverage that we have made does not stand at all to be too wide, too deep, or too deep. For example, the comparisons are done, in Germany which is a much larger state, this coverage is somewhere between 600 and 700 civil servants and civil servants but this is only about a federal state apparatus and a federal state administration not as you know Germany is a different territorial and politically organised state than Croatia. In any event, however, there is no correlation between the number of inhabitants, the size of the state and the scope of government officials or officials that would be covered by that law. So we believe that, in our proposal, we gave an optimum and width and depth when changing power, during the transfer of power. But, of course, it's all subject to one or the other, one or the other. In any case, it seems to us that no matter how well or badly affected, regardless of all of this I repeat, we should reach a certain consensus of all political parties because otherwise, no matter how well we pass such a law if, let's say, what is, why is a large, large percentage of the likelihood that this proposal is deadly rejected in this House. And to accept the government's proposal. We will again find ourselves in a position to have the Law on the transfer of power but we will continue to have doubts about rematchism, nepotism, political similarity and everything else. Only if we achieve truly one political consensus of all parliamentary political parties on this issue can we overcome any objections and any tensions on whether it is rematch or whether it is a normal transfer of power in which the normal work of the state administration is primarily ensured during the transitional period. Another segment, therefore, I have already said about this administrative dimension, the political dimension is also quite said and written, but rather discussed in, if not with, this assembly but certainly by the halls, therefore, off the record in this House. It is also about the human dimension that I was talking about, and it is actually an attempt to distinguish that these are political duties in the system of state administration and that are professional or public official duties. This unclear limit between political and civil duties can never and never guarantee neither the expertise nor the efficiency of the state administration, but the unclear limit can only guarantee political volunteerism, and the similarity of the choice of personnel at all levels of the state administration. It's completely safe and unequivocal. In other words, we believe that it is necessary to distinguish political officials who make their mandates available, i.e. leave their duties when changing authorities from public officials who are elected in their duties through a public tender and should remain in office independently of the change of power. It is not negligible in this whole story about the transfer of power but even more important if we remind ourselves of the shift or transfer of power after 3 January 2000 and so on. the time dimension of this whole problem. Therefore, the transfer of power must not last indefinitely, it must be limited in time, the transfer of power must not result in any functioning, that the functioning of the state administration is questionable. Citizens and civil servants must not feel, let alone the consequences of the transfer of power, nor the day-to-day tasks of the public administration, nor of short-term or medium-term projects. At the same time, clear legal provisions and clear deadlines for the transfer of authorities mean that any coalition or party intending to take over the country must prepare for this in due time both programme and personnel. The transfer of power must be swift, comprehensive within the framework of the law, i.e. within those frameworks within which the law covers this transfer of power, i.e. it must be consistent with the transfer of duties at all legally envisaged levels. This was to be cared for by our court by a special transitional committee within, which would be formed under this law. The transitional committee, as set out in Article 7 of our proposal, should appoint a Croatian Parliament at its constitutive session, i.e. when forming a new parliamentary majority, should consist of several members and should be composed of representatives of the new and former parliamentary majority. In order for this privilege of government to take place as safely as possible without and without problems and without impasses. And even without certain suspicions during the transfer of power. Likewise, during the transfer of power itself, as well as during the transfer of power, one of the ministries should, and it is also regulated by this proposal of the law to provide state reports in its portfolio so that what happens, for example, does not happen at the time of this handover of the authorities. When the new government is, in fact, the new prime minister and the new prime minister when, in fact, they received reports according to certain resolutions on an arbitrary basis. If some ministries had prepared reports on the state of the resort, then they would have gotten them, if some ministries hadn't gotten them. In any event, such reports would not be uniform in such a way as to be easily read and easily managed by a particular procedure and by a particular form. So you had examples of us actually listening for a few days to the bickering between the new health minister, on the one hand, who claimed that the situation in his portfolio was not exactly what the former minister claimed. In that regard, HZZO president or HZZO director claimed that his reports contained some figures of the new minister claimed that they do not contain and so on and so on. If it were lawfully resolved how these reports on the state of the resort should look, what we are proposing in our bill, then such disagreements should not and should not actually occur. Therefore, for this opening part I will indeed ask you, although there has been quite a traffic around this pay phone while I have been expressing our views as a promoter of this law. And I had a slight feeling that all my colleagues were already very well directed into this law. It's the only thing I can think of, or they think it's completely irrelevant. I'm asking you to do it one more time. I warn you of the fact that such a law is really important for the functioning of the state and state administration, that it is very important that it is very important to meet all these dimensions that I have mentioned. And that means not only political but also administrative but also human resources, but also this time frame that is just as important as the previous ones. So that the shift of power takes place within some ordinary hundred days or three months of new power. And they do not form as it was that they form a variety of more party or unilateral political committees, which from the municipality to the government will, in fact, reduce the head of state or deputy chiefs in individual administrations. And in certain ministries. And deploy quotas within political parties who should come and where they should actually come. It's to make that point quite clear. And in order for it to be quite clear that it would satisfy all those who are leaving and those who are coming to become truly normal polite democracy and during the transfer of power, so I stress the need for a further consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament, because if this consensus does not have doubts about remandism and the criteria for the transfer of power will continue if it does not go further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3632	Thank you. I ask the Secretary of State, Mr. Antun Palaric, to explain the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3633	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The government sent parliament a bill on the procedure of handing over authorities. Which I would say to a large extent is 80% different from the bill represented by a representative of the HSP Club. And this in terms of content is the government's desire by this law to limit the government's powers at that point in political life when the government has no political control. So when Parliament's term of office expired or the Parliament's disbanded. Furthermore, the Government only deals with officials who will be relieved of their duties but also offers them an alternative if they are not re-elected or appointed to their duties or other duties. However, it should be pointed out that Croatian practice has already stabilised some positions, some solutions and that in that part we have far removed from rematchism and that the government cannot be accused of any rematchism. We have already created a certain layer of professionals who, as a life call, have chosen to work in the state administration, some have made progress through the structures of the administration and lower posts. And many of them worked in the former Matesha government and the previous government led by Prime Minister Racan and have now continued to act on the same or other duties. So one round of professionals was created in Hrvatko and they continue to do their job. With this Act, the Government wanted to prevent the conclusion of an investment contract in order to promote pre-election and appoint the office that took place in certain ministries after the elections were held or during the period from calling the elections until the end until the formation of the new one called for the assembly. For this we suggest that in principle the Government cannot bring appointments of an office from the day of the election. If this is necessary because a single body of the state administration is left without a leader or has no deputy who could replace it in the period until the new parliament is established, then the election of the new government is authorised by the Government to appoint the acting official. It is not good for the appointment of certain duties to create a new government in the trouble of reviewing the quality of these newly appointed officials. And there were several examples of such appointments. In particular, it is an important provision for us to prohibit the Government from signing elections from making contracts on capital investments of a more significant value. There are thirds when it is necessary to conclude some kind of contract then it would be possible to conclude this on condition that business ends by election day, or if the election after the election and the formation of the new government concludes some capital investment contract, we suggest that the Prime Minister consult with the prime minister for the formation of the new government. With regard to officials who should put their mandates at their disposal, the Government is significantly more restrictive than the proposal we have heard earlier. However, the government does not think that any government official or deputy should be given a mandate at all. They are subject to the Law on Officials, it is known that they are coming to work, as they are admitted to the State Service, what is the system of progress. What is the appointment of positions and what is the procedure of resolution unless they have met their tasks. He therefore wants to professionalise the state administration where, as professional, all civil servants and tenants and even lower public officials, they would. We would like to prescribe that the term of office be made available by the Prime Minister, Deputy Secretary of Government, State Secretary, Ministry Secretary, Assistant Ministers, Directors of State Administration Organisations, Directors of Government agencies and Head of the Government's Office, and in that section in the administrative structure, this would be the end. There are other deputy directors of administrative organisations, deputy directors of government agencies, assistant directors of state administration organisations. We believe that these lower officials would not be obliged to put their mandates at their disposal. This law also proposes a very short deadline in which the Government must review their work so far and decide on their working fate in a way that will restore them and re-trust them with mandates, re-elected them or relieved them of their duties. We also want the mandates at the disposal of the Government to be placed which is particularly important and more important than the lower government officials, these are the presidents and members of the supervisory boards in commercial societies owned by the Republic of Croatia and that the government decides very quickly on these issues within 60 days. However, we are all aware of the fact that Croatia is a small country and that Croatia cannot afford a situation where every four or three years a whole set of people who have already formed as experts who have learned to do their job will throw their jobs on the street but we are proposing two models of solving the rights of non-reelected officials. One of these seems to be very useful to the state, that a state official who is not re-assigned, is once again appointed to offer him a job in the state service that corresponds to his professional preparation, knowledge and work experience. The second model is what used to be a provision of the Labour Act but was deleted and directed to resolve this issue by a special law, we think this is a convenient law to resolve it, and that is the question of the official's right to return to the workplace from which he came when he was appointed to office. We prescribe an obligation for the employer to receive it again, this article will likely be updated for another reading, we will specify after how many years this obligation would be if it were not logical to force the employer to endure for 15 years how much a person behaves in order to regain his duties. All in all, it is the Government's opinion that this law will introduce order in the process of handing over authorities and that it will at the same time protect civil servants against the fears that any change of government brings to them, and that it will make clear to the state officials listed here that they must take account of their work after the government's term is over. We propose that this law be thoroughly discussed and that after the debate we will prepare a final proposal with respect to all the proposals that are being heard here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3634	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow us to stop for a moment with this debate in order to supplement the agenda, because one part of the MPs should go, there are other obligations, travels, delegations so that we just go to... In accordance with Article 204(2), Rules of Procedure, I suggest adding the agenda to the points I have announced, and now I will read them clearly: 1. Proposal for a law amending the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Income Tax Act, with the Final Bill, the Emergency Procedure, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the cost of health care, with final proposal for a law, emergency procedure, 5. Final draft law amending the Health Insurance Act, 6. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Labour Act, 7. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on maternity leave for mothers who carry out the independent activity and unemployed mothers and 8. Proposal for a decision to maintain military exercises of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the Armed Forces of the United States during 2004. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. Four laws are proposed under the urgent procedure: Law amending the Law on Railways, P.Z. No. 49; amending the Income Tax Act, P.Z. No. 48; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act, P.Z. No. 46th and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of part of the costs of health care, P.Z. No. 47. Do any of the MPs have any objection to the passing of any of these laws by emergency procedure? Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on Railways? Thank you. Against? I find that with 84 votes for, 21 against being included in the agenda under the urgent procedure of the Law amending the Law on Railways. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Income Tax Act? Thank you. Against? I find that with 87 votes for, 18 against an emergency procedure, the Law amending the Income Tax Act. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act? Thank you. Against? I find that, with 82 votes for, 23 against the agenda of this session, the Emergency Procedure Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending the Law on the exemption from paying part of the costs of health care? Who's for please? Thank you. Against? I find that with 87 votes for, 18 against the agenda of this session, the final draft law amending the Law on the exemption from the payment of a part of health care. Any of the MPs have any objections to the inclusion of any of the remaining points in the agenda? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the draft agenda have been established, I ask the presidents of the working bodies to put these laws on the agenda next week, to call the committees and put them on the board's agenda so that they can be discussed next week. Now we're continuing the debate we've stopped for. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor of the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, the Law on the Handover of Authorities? Here you are, Mr. Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3635	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, first of all, on the proposal for a law on the transfer of power proposed by the HSP Representatives' Club. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament held on 24 February discussed the proposal for a law on the transfer of power submitted by the HSP Club to the president on 23 January 2004. We discussed the law referred to above on the basis of the jurisdiction referred to in Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an opinion on the proposal for a bill stating that it did not support the Bill's proposal because of the disagreement of its provisions with the provisions of the Law on State officials and tenants and the Law on the System of State Administration. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of 7 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 1 abstention not to accept this proposal. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System at the 5th session of 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for a law on the procedure of handing over power to the President of the Croatian Parliament, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 18 February 2004. We also discussed the Law as a parent committee based on Article 57. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the Bill's proposal, but the opinion was expressed that the content of the law and the Croatian language would nevertheless be more appropriate to the term "transposition" than "presidation" by the authorities. After the debate, the Committee proposed, by a majority, 9 votes for and 1 abstention, to the Croatian Parliament to accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3636	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Committee. Anyone else from the work bodies? No, I don't. Working bodies. We're going to a club debate. He's got a word on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3637	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed representative of the government, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. TO begin first of all, means in the event of changes in power after parliamentary elections, the fate of MPs is clear, MPs leave clearly if they do not confirm a new mandate and there is no dilemma. In the Republic of Croatia, so is the world except perhaps still in two or three countries that do not hold elections. It is hard to imagine that a minister in the new government could participate if his political option loses elections, however, such a single solution does not have to be excluded. However, the fundamental question arises, what it means to organise a civilised change of government without any change of government being experienced after the elections carried out by rematchism, cleanliness, by seeking some new political resemblance, cutting, repression and so forth. Just before I was wrong, Mr. Rožic said that the 3 January authorities had replaced about 300 people in various structures of government, not counting, naturally, parliamentary representatives and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. He mentioned that 3 January authorities resolved if I was not mistaken, if I would quote it well 272 or 3 members of the board of directors in various hospitals. What is also known as the 3 January authorities withdrew 25 ambassadors and 13 consuls defacto immediately upon coming to power, etc. The question arises whether she was right to do so. It is. Does the new authority that took power 22 if I am not mistaken 11 also have the right to change part of the frame? There is. Mr Rosic mentioned earlier that some 300 officials are also leaving in Slovenia after a change of government, he mentioned the case of Germany, in which 600 to 700 officials follow that fate after a change of government. I ask myself how any government will make a change in politics with the old staff, means officials, and I simply don't understand it, and that's why I think a part of the people must go because we are going to the elections to change the composition of the Parliament first, then clearly the Government, and I guess everything doesn't stay the same, or to change the policies in the country that got the parliamentary majority. It is clear that this change of government needs to be carried out civilised, it needs to be implemented according to the pre-known rules, rules that will be known long before the elections and where to know who is going to stay. I ask again as in the morning why, for example, ministerial assistants would outlive all governments. If they're officials, then let's say the gentlemen share the fate of the authorities in leaving. If they're not officials there's a clearly different story then let them stay. In no way can this administrative, administrative staff bear any consequences of the political changes that will be experienced in the country. If it were done that way, it would be a crime against both the country and those people. Clearly, these people will in no way put their mandates at their disposal because they are simply not officials. In my view, the most elegant solution is that all officials, but literally all officials, I do not clearly mean judges here, I do not mean the governor of the Croatian National Bank because these relations are regulated by special laws must put their mandates at the disposal of the new government. And this new government can thank them for their trust, it can offer them some other job can keep them at their existing job. In my view, officials should also do so in the event of the formation of a new parliamentary majority during one of the election cycles, in a word to make their mandates available. If an official, and we know that he cannot get paid before submitting, say, a property card, too, the basis of the Law should be resolved by the letter of that Law if he does not put, I do not know, at the disposal of the Prime Minister within about 15 days of the formation of the new Government. So you have rights, but you must clearly have certain obligations. You have privileges, but on the other hand, and the greatest possible risk of losing power without a job, and perhaps without existence. Nothing, clearly, can happen by force. Nothing based on discretionary will, I don't know Mr. Sanader, Hebrang, Racan, Cain, Baby or someone on the fifth. All based on the law, all based on clear political or legal criteria. Understandably, the proposed term of office of the Prime Minister may or may not have to accept. If within 15 days, the Prime Minister, for example, is not apparent about the offer of officials, then this one should remain in that status even after the change of power. Clearly, it is understandable, there must also be a mechanism of change, in order to say resolutions, improvements and during someone's performance, but the point is that any change in government is no longer seen as the beginning of a big cleanup. How far can you go in all this? It is clear even that even a certain category of civil servants, in my court, should, under quotes, go to put their mandate, but now I will tell the new ministers at my disposal. And so that everything now the new government can implement its policy. I believe we should do this, say, spokeswoman in certain ministries, personal secretary. Maybe someone will say it's too radical, but it's also a secretary. You are aware that Mr. Cacic has brought his secretary from the Ministry to the Parliament and so on, and everything so that the new government can start implementing its policy. Nothing I'm talking about is unusual, nothing I'm talking about isn't, and it's not being applied in our neighbouring countries that we like to say are old parliamentary democracies. It is also understandable to offer their mandates here to supervisory authorities or congregations within the appropriate time limit to their directors, members of the Supervisory Boards. And finally time to avoid stories that, for example, I don't know, the director of the Croatian Privatisation Fund or Croatian Forests comes to this job because it is the best of the best in the Republic of Croatia. These people were both before January 3rd and after January 3rd, and this is certainly the case and are now coming to those functions because they were party-elected, clearly respecting the criteria of the elections and so on. And I just think about those questions that I think at least we sitting in this house don't need to paint. The same applies to Croatian roads, Croatian water, INA, I don't know Jadrolini, Croatian electricity and so on. And at a local level in my court, there should be similar rules. In 1993, the IDS took over management in Istria, did not resolve a single person, but all those before the 2000 elections began to lead their policies against those who protected them. I say it is legitimate, but the principle of making the mandate available should become “conditio sin quanom” both at the state level and at the regional or urban or municipal level. There's something else I want to say. The transfer of power by the IDS court cannot only entitle the mandate to be made available. The transfer of power must also be regulated by what this Law provides, which was also spoken by the State Secretary, which is what financial obligations from the declaration of election results to the takeover of power from some new government can be carried out by the old government, the old administration, I do not know in Croatian forests, Jadrolinia and so on. And not only that, but also what obligations a government can transfer to a new government, and all to avoid these stories, how indifference it was and how much resources had to be allocated in 2000 to resolve the financial delinquencies of the former government, or how much debts were hidden now after the government was taken over by HDZ and Mr Sanader. Therefore, this law by my court is necessary, necessary to regulate the functioning of the authorities from learning election results to forming a new government. Secondly, how they have to run state finances exactly and how much of a commitment can be transferred to new power in some way. It is not correct for one country to be in charge of working, I do not know I will say skyscrapers in Zagreb, and that the other government must pay all these obligations only and finally a new policy I hold cannot be run with the old people. Minimum, minimum meaning of decency should require officials of one authority to make their mandates available, and whether that offer will be accepted, I do not know the government or prime minister, and that is their personal choice now. To these people in the government, the prime minister is primarily a huge responsibility for the policy-making mandated by the Parliament, and parliamentary representatives from the citizens, but also for the fate of people who could in some way be thanked for their trust because I said in some way I could remain without existence. However, the man who will exercise power, the minister, the government, does not matter, must be freed by the law of that rematch, should be released from the charge that the executioner, I don't know, the people would say the murderer of a smiling person. The sooner we make such a law, the sooner we give ourselves rules by which everyone who comes to a debt function will know how to behave, the less trauma the country will go through. And it's clear that if someone makes a mistake they'll pay her in the next election, but part of the freedom to humanize must have every authority that takes responsibility for the country's leadership, for running the county, for some city or I don't know, municipalities. It is clear that once again, I will point out in no way can such a policy be engulfed in administrative administrative staff. All countries, we are aware of this, have such laws, especially such laws need countries in transition, and I guess at the end or finally should accept the Republic of Croatia. It's Croatia, we all know a small country. I am convinced that no government will play and live over the staff, however, I would like to say that this government proposal is a typical proposal that senior bureaucrats in the government adapt first to themselves and then to the state. They only have the impression that they have proposed legal arrangements to take care of themselves, and I advise them to share the fate of the options they were dedicated to during one term of office or serve. And that would be honorable of those people. If I share what is right with me, then I must take over because of this status and the fate of the government that is leaving.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3638	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the proposal of the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, which submitted to the Croatian Assembly of HSP Representatives, and is hardly able to support the draft law on the procedure for the handover of authorities, which we really think is something, that there is a bad copy of this significantly better original which, as I pointed out originally handed over to the HSP's Club of Representatives. First of all, the name of the bill itself, the proposal for a Law on Transfer of Government, is much better drawn and more in the spirit of our language than the proposal for a Law on the Handover of Authorities procedure. Because it's not just a process, it's a matter of content, at least it seems to me that the government had that kind of intensity. However, there is something that we want to say in the introduction, that we really need to have this matter regulated, a significant problem. Why is that? Everyone, we all know right here, because we need to know that, because we are representatives of the citizens, we have been voted by the citizens. and fear and shivering shows with many citizens, that we are not just talking about officials and tenants within our administration, our administration, but also not just the state administration. Why is that? Because not only were the government officials here and the normal ones who were leaving, I'm going to say something about it later, but also ordinary officials and tenants at the time felt insecure, taught by a very negative experience, not to talk since 1990. Now, the number and number of shifts that the 3rd January government carried out are numbered. We have lost good power, because the people objected to us primarily to the whole, the complaint was fundamentally that we were not rid of it. However, we have partly defended ourselves from acting according to the law, and all the shifts that have taken place have not occurred in the fullness of the legal powers, it is true and that is why citizens really need to be apologized. However, what happened exclusively within the limits of legal powers. What happened, I'm not just saying this because of the challenge of the past, but that the situation really got up and that it's not happening anymore. What happened in the 1990s was the cleanup that affected our state administration, but I say not only the administration, but the judiciary's consequences are that we're feeling them today, and we're going to feel them for a long, long time. In fact, not only the civil servants and the tenants, that they left their places of professionally, honorably doing their job, so we, here, were pointed out that we are not many, because we are not a large and multi-human country, but all of us are less quality personnel, educated personnel and our administration, our administration is left without very capable personnel, which, more or later, when they had the opportunity to return, they no longer had the desire, or the will to do so, because they either retired or found a much, much better paid and more lucrative job than those skilled and owners of companies, who knew how to recognize professionalism in them. So I think it's the wisdom of one policy to recognize these people, because they are the ones who are helping them to affirm their own policy, of course all of their own aspects of professionalism. So why does this matter? It is as important, above all, as explained, and here is the Government's proposal, and it is indeed so that an acceptable degree of security and continuity is achieved in the performance of the affairs of the state administration, except that we at the SDP Club do not consider this in this way, as the Government suggests and achieves it. But it is very important that those who remain after the shift of authorities who know that they will stay, that they will remain for their professionalism, not because they are potentially strange or with them the government is just counting on them because of wonder. So it's very important that they develop self-awareness, because they can't develop professionalism until the end unless they're aware, so one of the prestigious roles they play everywhere in the world is working in the state administration and a certain honor. Of course, the adoption of this law must also be accompanied by an amendment to the Law on civil servants and tenants, that it is also transparent of their responsibility and that their responsibility falls only from the aspect of transparency and accountability to profession and ethical behaviour. That is why it is very important for us to also pass the law on, or ethical code, now it is a question and in what form or form it would apply to the official and the substitute. Because otherwise the widespread public perception is very critical of not only the top of the state administration, but also of those at the bottom of that pyramid of the state administration. Just to point out that earlier, in the earlier government, a minister had initiated proceedings before a court of law, it was necessary to do so in a more transparent and responsible manner in front of that official court, that there should not be any court that would serve to move the unsurprised, but also that the work of those who do not work in the state administration and administration would also be valorised. So, he initiated proceedings before the official court, against one of the referents who made the two files he solved in two years. And he got a warning. So that's what irritates people, and that's what has to be very much connected to this law. So, to know precisely the criteria of responsibility for their profession, and then to protect this law precisely by those professionals. And this second law says, the Law on civil servants and tenants that will enable right now, i.e. to disable people who do not work, who are not professionals or ultimately who have come to the state service once and for all that they are not for centuries, but that they certainly do not fall under political criteria, but according to the criteria of their profession and efficiency. It was said and that's true, the only question is that even these last situations that happen, do they deny it. and indeed progress has been made in 2000, that Croatia's practice has nevertheless moved away in this, especially for the last two years. So that's why even in the media when the shifts appeared, and even the ones that could be done by law, but how the public perceived these people as professionals then she was, of course, surprised why these people were leaving. And that's why it seems to me that this HSP proposal is much more acceptable to talk about people who need to leave when the government changes. These are, in any case, ministers, State Secretarys, and then these principals, or principals, vice-presidents, which I mean is quite fine, but doesn't mention the deputy ministers. And I think it's quite acceptable, or ministerial assistants. Ministers' assistants must be professionals, and I think that the past power in this sense began in exactly this way and acted to reach people who are not party members, or who will really be professionals, behind this aspect really help to find the lead, of course they must also be loyal to current politics and authorities, but who will consider the matter from the aspect of professionalism. Of course, no such changes can occur, but I say only after the law has been passed. It would be very dangerous to change in political resemblance, and then we're passing a law on how we're going to cement it all. The procedure should be reversed. We've had a familiar situation in the judiciary and it doesn't need to be looked at now, but in any case, that's exactly the right way of doing it when it comes to these things. I mean, here's a chance to warn you of something here in the state assessment, it shouldn't happen like this by the government. Here, when it comes to the assessment of the situation under point 2 of the bill and then here in the explanation, it states which person the law has to apply to. A person appointed on a decided specific duty. So, on, because Decided means specified, so translation would be on a certain, certain duty. So in that sense, you can see one hasty, and you'd better go copying something that the experiment did. It's not supposed to be done like that, but it should be done if there's something good to support it, even if it comes from opposition. It shows the strength of a single authority that is confident of itself. This gives you a different impression. But in any case, there's better this way, that you're still listening to what the opposition is doing and that's some good suggestions, a little bit or in a awkward way, but that's also one shift and that's also to say hello. I think there's a trap here in the government's proposal. The trap is in Article 7. She seems to look like a security but not an officer and a tenant who absolutely must have and he falls under, I must say, it is necessary to change that law to make his responsibility transparent. But a state official comes into politics at his own risk. He can't, therefore, be supplied when he's no longer a state official to then turn into a civil servant and a tenant, we've had such situations by 2000, I don't know if he's ever passed a law like that. It is no longer a state official, therefore, who has made his mandate available as provided for in Article 7 and shall not be appointed to a duty which he or she has acted on or on any other duty that the head of the body, in that case, must distribute it to an official post. You can imagine, in the case of a slightly more frequent change of government, how much more often a body might then have an officer and a substitute, therefore, and beyond a direct need than that body needs or some administration or organisation needs. Whether this is also in line with the vision at least announced and the reduction of civil servants and deputies. This is certainly not to be accepted, and it is especially not to be accepted when an amendment to the law to the formation of the ministries has created an uncanny possibility for the government to, instead of abolishing the deputy ministers and the establishment of a parallel power in the ministries, depending on how the ministry really supports and helps the minister somewhere, and somewhere it is indeed that possibly and its own minister controls because it is fully evident in the parallel responsibility, therefore, it does not respond to the primary minister but directly to the Government. So it's a matter of position, but let's leave that thing for maybe another debate. But then it's not in the law at that time how many State Secretarys can have one ministry at all. It's not specified at all. Which means they can be tens and tens and then when the power changes, they all fit in that body. Could our, our economy, our taxpayers keep it, after all, if it's even fair. So I think this is, indeed, one trap, and it's not, that it's one of the worst provisions here in this bill, that it needs to be deleted. Such a government official should return to where he came from if he had worked before. So we can't work from a state official, so in this indirect way, we can provide him with love. At no cost. In fact, what we need to guarantee this change is the professionalization of our administration because it is the only way that it becomes more responsible, professional, and only as such can it be responsible for this measure to serve, i.e. to be a mirror indicator, a state official to be a mirror of a state, which ultimately makes every administration, or every civil servant and tenant, and values. Therefore, we suggest that the Proposer really consider what is stated. To take greater account of how the HSP Club did it, but in any case we need to amend the law on civil servants and tenants. Because we can't cement one condition if we haven't done a transparent responsibility here for officials, tenants and those who would no longer fall under change, that is, as colleague Cain said, who wouldn't normally pack their suitcases when there was a change of government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3640	Thank you very much. There is one correction to the incorrect allegations by Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3641	Mr. President, make one correction. If I had time then there would have been more and I wouldn't have heard from my colleague Anticevic if I hadn't been lucky to be a representative in the previous assembly of this Parliament. Well, I don't know, if I didn't know by chance what was going on since 3 January 2000, then I would have accepted everything you said today among the last sentences of professionalism, the expertise in the administration, but Mrs. Collars why you didn't say so on January 3, 2000 when you were in the name of fear and trembling that you're talking about today, and why didn't you mention it then wouldn't do the following. You have replaced 35 general consuls and ambassadors in certain places in European countries and the overseas countries within 6 weeks, for over a year there have remained empty places of ambassador, as was very important for certain countries from Berlin, not to list further. You were distracted by the thanks in the rooms of the general consulates where they wrote the names and last names of the people who were building or buying that building. And one more thing. [[Intruder: Thank you, time's up.]] I have one, ask your colleague that you sent to Norway what you did to Mr., sir, please. Here, he lost his residence permit, went back to Croatia. [[Intruder: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3642	You can't, you can't speak any further, ma'am. Sit down, please. You can't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3643	All right, then be like that to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3644	Thank you very much. And the breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3645	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I think it's evident that a respected representative has violated Rule 209's Rules of Procedure because she has not corrected any incorrect allegations. It was her opinion, replication, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3646	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect, violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3647	Mr. Vice-President, I refer to Rule 209 of Rule 209 of Article 2, my colleague Anticevic hurt his Rules of Procedure when she said that I did not give accuracy to her 10-minute speech, which was just a party, all that I said, and if she had time, she would list the realities of what they had done since 3 January 2000.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3648	Thank you very much. Don't get into an argument, just warn about the injury. Thank you very much. There's no 'cause this other isn't a correction. This breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I thank you. There's a word on behalf of Klub HSS Mr. Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3649	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Secretary of State. So give me a few words. about the two laws that are here before us. First of all, I want to make it clear that it's good that we have these two laws here. And I don't think there's any MPs here who are sorry, who won't agree with that. Therefore, we can speak here today for sure that such a law is necessary in Croatia. Without him, unfortunately, they wanted me to or didn't want to admit certain problems of a certain misunderstanding I'm going to try to say something more about them here. With the fact that, of course, it is my duty to say on behalf of the HSS Club, the proposal of the HSP is, in any case, a proposal that has its own completeness, but of course it must also be said here, that it needs to be complemented with certain provisions of the articles that stand in the government's proposal. I think it may be necessary at first here to say that such important laws are certainly not laws that will be passed by a certain vote or overvote but are laws that should be passed by a particular consensus. I mean, no one's going to get a crown off their heads if someone takes away a priority, or anything about a proposal or something else, but I think it's appropriate that this law be passed in a more high-quality form. I think it's here especially for the analysis here we've heard so far from distinguished colleagues, the concept of professionals in the state administration. I think even those who weren't and those who met with the government know what professional means. And I think it's a notion that maybe it's important to talk about here. Sometimes I think that we all overestimate ourselves together and think that in Croatia we have a lot of professionals and, unfortunately, because of that wrong assessment, we sometimes have some mistakes. It was at the highest national Asia, so they wanted to or didn't want to admit it sometimes at those lower levels and down to those municipal or urban ones. That's why I'm sure the most important fact here is how long the level in this power transfer should go. We see that the government has decided on a proposal that goes in one piece deeper, so it goes all the way to the assistant minister. while in a certain part of the HSP proposal goes all the way to the government's spokeswoman. I think we have different examples both in the world and in the countries, but I think that I should evaluate together which proposal is best. Is it possible always after each election to find a sufficient number of real professionals who will not need 6, 7 8 or a year of stalking, but will immediately start with a job that is definitely necessary in the executive authority. I think we're all aware that they're happening to us in the election, and that's almost 3.4 months before the election, and then three, four months after the election, almost block the entire system. The state administration of certain reasons almost stops working while that stalker goes through time again. And in particular, I have to say that in our difficult economic situation, it is inadmissible and does total damage. A large number of our officers and tenants, we have to say it alive in fear, uncertainty, doesn't know what's going to happen to them to where the change is going to go. What they will include, will individual commissioners, assistants, or other civil servants remain in this section. I do not think that as far as the transfer of power is concerned, it is not questionable for those prominent state officials such as ministers, and members of the government, deputy ministers, so of course Parliament should not be questioned at all. But everything below that is something to talk about. What we lack is the creation of ejahs I would say to professionals in certain teams that would follow in that section, so it would be precisely known that in one cabinet of the Prime Ministers, you know exactly which people are doing a certain professional part, which are certainly those who came with both the Prime Minister and that minister and who, of course, are leaving with them after the term of office. In any case, because of this uncertainty, I think other people need their protection and I can therefore say that all praises to this part of this proposal are common around the law itself. However, it is impossible to say here that we can forget a phenomenon that is unfortunately slightly forgotten, but I think we need to say here. And that's the problem with administration and red tape because I think it might happen to us after this and this one effect. We're going to have people who are definitely changing and in certain bodies, so there's going to be professionals left, and I agree that's how it should be. However, it may happen that many, and I will tell you from those examples of my own experience, that bigger and now it has been known to happen, and perhaps colleagues will apply it, I will not quote ministers and I will not talk about individual cases, but many of our administrations are very clearly changing, the ministers cross. But they stay. And it's not good at that pgoled, either because it can draw expendable conclusions, or I would say very problematic or blocked work. So, in any case, with this kind of change, it's important to get into the changes and the law on civil servants and tenants, which is also what my colleague Ingrid was talking about. And I think that's how you need to do that extra step. What's the problem with the general state administration is, of course, the problem that, unfortunately for my information, we don't have high-level institutions that are just about this part of the administration about that part means high school study. I think there's something in that section that we need at our universities to do, because I think there's also such professional personnel missing. Here and finally, I may say, in any case, believe that even after this first reading with our support in this part of the law proposed by the Croatian Party of Rights, it will certainly be complemented in that section relating to Articles 3 and 4 where certain contracts are spoken of and so on. Because we think that's a good solution. But in what part of the appeal, of course, we'll trust the next part as quickly as I've been able to conclude here reading the final law and finally a solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3650	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In the name of the proposed word there is a Mr. Representative...... But you asked on behalf of the promoter. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Nothing. Okay. Then the HNS club PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3651	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I think it is extremely good that the debate on this serious topic was opened in the Croatian Parliament and, in particular, thanks to the HSP colleagues who have caused this debate with their proposal, but in some ways forced the government to come with their counter-proposal. In these two handovers, the authorities in Croatia had been shed an extremely large amount of bile and polemics about the procedure, the way, the humane solutions, the rematch and that we had had this area regulated before, probably the Croatian public, voters and citizens and spared themselves all those conflicts that we did not need, which were the result of the lack of legal regulation on the one hand, but also the offended way of behaviour that every government when it took over or took over the government felt that democracy and the formation of the state administration began only from them. I hope that soon in a legislative way we will resolve this area and that never again when handing over, handovers will be required to lead any controversy and to make it as normal as it is for the Parliament to establish itself at the first session. As for the very text of the Government proposal, allow three or four observations or requests to the Proposer to think carefully about some of the proposed formulations that again after the law was passed, such as with the Law of Conflict of Interest after five months, they would not find that it cannot be applied or that no one understands it. Article 2 regulates the start of the process of handing over authorities, saying, among other things, that it starts as well as the formation of a new executive authority. The formation of a new executive power may be the choice of government, there may be ten other interpretations of that concept, so this formation of a new executive authority should be replaced by the words "government" and the other things that should be said if we said when it begins then we must and say by what time it must be at the latest and end. That the handover could not last 12 months, 6, 8 but possibly 3 of the day of the constitution of the new assembly of the Parliament. The second serious remark is in Article 4(1), which provides that from the date of the vote, the Government must not enter into contracts on capital investments of a more significant value. What does more significant value mean? What's that amount? Who judge whether it's a more significant value or not that it could be signed or not? Therefore, the notion of a more significant value is a matter of personal understanding of interpretation and here, too, should either go with a norm that will be clear either by the amount or by the size of the class in the state budget in order to avoid possible disputes in the application of the law itself. Thirdly, by comparing the proposal of the Government and colleagues from the HSP, it is obvious that it will always be so that when the Government proposes such legislative solutions it will seek to make available as little as possible for those who should do so, and that, in opposition proposals, there will always be more or more so because they always hope one in case of a loss of choice to ensure their survival, and the other in anticipation of obtaining the elections that they can change as much as possible. And it would really be good if, in the final versions of the law, that article 5 or logic or that it refers to political officials by not touching official duties because otherwise we will never get out of it. Article 8(1) introduces one newspaper in this type of legislation and provides for the right of the official to return to work at the place where he worked before the election or appointment at the end of his duty. Why did this formulation come into this law? Until about a year ago, this was an area of the regulations of the Labour Act and the Labour Act provided for the right of elected officials to return to work after the term of office to the employer from whom they left. During the past changes to the Labour Act, this provision was abandoned, and I spoke to people who interpreted it in the name of the promoter on the grounds that it was regulated by other regulations which at that time was not correct, and now it is seen that it is not true, so it is obvious that this provision should be returned. However, I do not believe that she should remain this way, because when she was in the working legislation, then it was approximately a solution that this right to return to work with the same employer would go to a term of four years, or up to five years, because someone could be on duty not only for a year, two, three, four, but if there are two mandates that are eight years, three mandates twelve years, somewhere there are mandates and longer. It may therefore be that someone would seek this right to exercise this right and to exercise this right after twenty years in office to return to the same employer. That is why it is already going with this proposal to be the subject of this law, to return to the solution of the former Labour Act and that this right cannot last for more than five years. That's my suggestion. And final. I'm not sure it's necessary to pass a special law and to arrange this area. As far as officials in the executive government are concerned, this can be regulated by the Government Act. As far as the Parliament is concerned, I hope that in this year we will still pass the law in the Croatian Parliament that we do not have or have never, if I am not mistaken, we have so far. And thirdly, I'm asking, and I remind you of the debate on this Law of the previous conflict of interest, haven't we forgotten another important area of regulation where the problems are the same, the same, the traumas are just not so media-exploited because they're not at national level. The same reasons, the same problems and the same ambiguities may arise and occur when authorities are taken over at regional and local levels. A few minor problems, somewhat less public shouting and shouting, but this law solves only the issue of national state level. Therefore, either this regulation regulates or accepts access to government level to regulate the Law on Government and the Law on Assembly, and for the local level, this same area regulates the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government to be known as game rules. And the fact is that in some local and regional self-government, it was not necessary to law and that the handover was carried out in a highly civilized manner and without any trauma. So I remind you that in 1997, after the local elections in Međimurje County, no one was relieved of any duties and functions whether it was the administrative bodies of the county, businesses or institutions owned by the county. No one. And it seems to me that the only person who left with his own desire was the secretary of the county of my current colleague, Dance, if I'm not mistaken. So without the need for a legislative solution without any problems and any market problems, it was solved and done in 97 years. And that is why I appeal to the government not to forget that the issue of local and regional self-government must also be resolved but I advocate that it be the area of the Law on Local Self-Government, as I advocate this to be the area of the Government Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3652	I thank Mr. Lesar. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3653	Dear Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, since this is the first reading of these two laws, seek to stick to its debate within the framework of the principle debate. In fact, my predecessors agreed less from all clubs that there was indeed a need to pass such a law. Of course, we from the Croatian Democratic Community Club share such an opinion, and not only do we share this for the first time that a government appears as the promoter of such a law. The true initiative since 2001 in this House and in this form of the proposal exists from HSP's Club of Representatives but I would say the government's proposal represents one seriousness and is in fact a guarantee that Croatia will finally receive the Law that will settle the issue of the handover of the authorities. However, considering this as a lawyer, I find it difficult to agree on an explicit or prominent finding that there is indeed a great need for the adoption of this Law. Why? In fact, as lawyers, we have already learned as students in the state and law case what is the fundamental difference between democratic and totalitarian regimes, between democratic and totalitarian states, between legally regulated and totalitarian states. The basic difference as teachers taught us about human rights is the following, in democratic systems, man deals with politics and in totalitarian reverse, means politics to man. As for other fundamental differences in democratic states and regimes, power is elected for a specified time and subject to change before the time it has been elected. In our case, Parliament's term of office for four years, the government is just as many, the president for five years, some other constitutional factors for a second time. In totalitarian regimes in power, as a rule, it remains for life, the authorities end death, mostly violent. Then the question arises how in a number of previous elections, in one polite and politically courteous way, in one politically cultural way, without great doubts, without major conflicts in a series of times, we had a successful handover of power from one party to another, from the same political group or from different political sexes. And of course HDZ took over the 90th power it was marked in another way in the war that followed, and HDZ taught power in 2000 and it happened in 2003 and we suddenly find ourselves without this law we can't go on. Because on behalf of the HDZ Club, I agree with this finding, I want to answer the questions why we can't go on and I think that I think that the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is successfully giving answers to these questions. In my opinion, the two groups of basic problems most of my predecessors have said here and I will also essentially apostrophe. The first group of problems is that it is with state officials which is with politicians who have to leave office. For one political direction is political rematchism, political cleanup, and for the other it's a normal political shift, and one of them is leaving. Such issues were not even big and problems in 2000 when the cleanups were actually made, now that the Croatian government has failed to fulfil the 100th mandate in the democratic world and in the democratic senses, conditionally speaking a consistent untouchability it calls for cleanups, shifts, etc., and we are witnessing that there are still former ministers acting in office on some supervisory committees. So, there was a climate, political cleanups, persecution, etc., and that is why the proposer comes out with this proposal in order to clearly indicate what is a circle of political responsibilities, which, however, falls within the sphere of the administration or the professional one, and I think that the proposer of these issues, establishing a circle of those persons in articles if I am not mistaken for these questions, of course there are constant objections here, but as this is the first reading, we of the HDZ Club will try to correct that text and these norms. Another group of questions is the following, the act itself of handing over authorities has always been without any norms, the Constitution does not say anything about it, other regulations do not speak, politely and without problems. But it happened in 2003 and we'll hear tomorrow when she adopts the budget she's brought. I'd say that individuals who acted most in government duties forgot the basic postulates of democracy, forgot that they had been given a term of office for a certain period of time. THAT'S HOW WE'RE GONNA HEAR TOMORROW AND I'M GONNA... First, the Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, adopted an ambitious programme for small economy development from 2003 to 2006 on 29 May 2003. May 29th immediately ahead of the upcoming elections. This is the first time something like this has happened in the modern Croatian state, and I am not familiar with any document from the practice of European democracies that has done so in this way. He did not strangely draw much attention to the Croatian public in particular to any attention from Croatian media. Another case that speaks for itself enough and if only it were enough reason to alarm Croatia, I would say both political and scientific and all the public. Mr. Racan, the president then acted as Technical Government in either resignation or departure from the Croatian government. On 4 December 2003, the government adopted a plan and a programme for the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar for the period from 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2008. National newspaper No. 198 since 19 December 2003. Also at the conference, giving a statement to reporters in Vukovar on December 7th, Racan said, quote. I'm sorry, I can't find the text, but I'll say it briefly. So he said: “In the next four years, the government will invest more than a billion dollars in the reconstruction of Vukovar. On 8 December, all daily newspapers in the Republic of Croatia delivered such a statement. So Racan was at a time when he was acting as Prime Ministers in departure, so even at a time when the new prime minister was appointed three days before the new Parliament was established, a document was published, a program that weighs billions and a half of kuna. I'm just wondering here that it doesn't misread which government and who he meant when he said the government was going to invest a billion and a half kuna over the next four years. If he meant the HDZ government, the government of Dr. Sanader, then he was right. And finally, this reason is enough for us to pass this Law on the transfer of power. I would not talk about other details except that I hope that we will reach a consensus on this, and as far as the bill that regulates this same issue by the HSP is concerned, I think that the government's proposal is better, more complete, and in this sense, that perhaps, with some kind of improvement until the 2nd reading, we could accept it by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3654	Thank you very much, Mr. Boras. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Mr. Zeljko Pecek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Boras has said to nothing that he is not aware that such similar development programmes have not been adopted in the countries of the European Union. I'm sorry it's not familiar to him, but I want to tell him that the Small Economy Development Programme was passed under a law adopted by this House, that it's perfectly normal for him to refer to a period of four years and it's perfectly normal because it was passed in May last year, and it's also known that the elections could have been in May next year. What does that mean? That we should have waited for the elections and the mandate of the new government, and the mandate of the new government to bring in a quality programme. It is also incorrect that the programme did not raise public attention. Yes, he challenged the public's attention because, fortunately thanks to the previous programme that was well realized, 49,000 new jobs were opened. We created 184 zones for small entrepreneurship, about 7 billion kuna loans are divided by craftsmen, small and medium entrepreneurs and so on. God forbid there are such programs in the Croats even if they're being brought in at the wrong time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3656	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Sima Luč's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3657	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there were several false allegations. Here, I'll just hang out for two. We've got to break that name down about the supervisory boards and the former ministers on the boards. Some ministers are on the board of supervisors, Mr. Representative, for a simple reason, because the government hasn't found time to relieve them yet. All the ministers on the boards of directors are named after the government. If we already want to talk openly about supervisory committees, then it is clear and loud: by 1998 there were no representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community and of the minister who did not sit on at least 3 supervisory boards and who did not receive any fat fees. These ministers who've been sitting on the boards for the past four years, I've been sitting in one. I didn't even drink coffee at the expense of the company I was sitting in. Another blames the allegations about what the former government has been doing for the past month? Please take the Croatian government's record and you'll read it. All the conclusions on the financial commitments made had one clause: if confirmed by the future government. Ask your prime minister, he'll confirm it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3658	Thank you. Mrs. Antunovic asked for a replica, but unfortunately there is no replica on the basis of a basic exhibition. A representative from the HSP Club, Mr Slaven Letica, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3659	I'm glad the promoter of the club that was never in power so he can't go, what you did on January 3rd, what you did in 1990 is a comfortable position. So as far as the idea of reaching a consensus is concerned, it is ideal, but it cannot be methodologically achieved in the way that the esteemed representative Boras said: “Our proposal is better than that proposal”. So consensus can be reached on compromise. This is not just about the proposal of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary minority but about the principle of the two branches of government; the executive authority that proposes this high house and the proposal that comes from the higher home itself. The only question is institutional loyalty so that this high house can teach the executive authority a lesson to leave some initiative to us. It would be good to compromise in the following way that perhaps, on the basis of today's debate, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system may make a compromise solution, because that is what this is really about. There's a lot more touch points than it looks. First of all, there is a political will to take care of this area. It's a very important fact. In 1986, I was in Ukraine with a delegation of Croatian scientists and I asked people there how, how do you circle the elites? As they change, no, I actually asked how the elites orbit? They say, “We don’t understand”. I say: “How can you not understand? “I say, “How is the government being replaced?” “A” says “those who are not in power kill those who are in power and take power.” So it's a much worse situation than we do when it comes to cleaning people up. As for more serious matters, the state of the Croatian public administration is disastrous. There are no public administration institutes, there is no specialized even legal education for public administration, there is no specialized economic... in Croatia there are 12 people who deal with public finances, 9 are members of HDZ or sympathisers, 7 I consulted them, none of them have consulted more seriously in the process of adopting proposals of the state budget. So what's very important is that we start working seriously on the state administration, and that can be done, we need to create a culture of institutional loyalty and build the stability of institutions. More importantly, both proposals went too deep in defining the differences that Damir Cain spoke of from two different perspectives on two occasions. On behalf of the promoters, we must thank the SDP and HSS clubs that gave priority to ours, Shime, don't laugh. Because yesterday we'll talk more about it. So, who gave the support. Namely, it's about the next one. In 1992, as part of that old phar program aware of the confusion of these political elite killings, the OEC, along with the phar programme, built a programme called Sigma. Sigma was a program, a relationship arrangement called handing over power to an old communist vocabulary, it was like... etc. So it's about the power transfer process. And they said the following. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to ensure institutional and management autonomy of public administration institutions. They're in our new terminology, they're all agencies of government, they're being seduced by central state institutions. What does the Director of the Croatian Institute of Public Health have to do with the shifts? What does the Director of the Croatian National Statistics Institute have to do with the shift? What does my dean or Director Rebra have to do with shifts? So, the mistake was made in the '90s, the late president and I sat down and we said, we're not gonna lock anyone up, if we lock someone up, they all come to power later. And because of that, maybe we didn't, maybe for a few hours we closed someone up, maybe a lot of problems would be solved. Then came this clientalist power, there were many. and they were nervous and went too far on shifts in 2000. She's right. She's a colleague of Petricevic, she says, she's replaced so many ambassadors, sent people out there without foreign languages, they can't defend our interests, they've never been to Paris, they've never been to the casino, they come in there, they're scared, they come home, they're scared of their own people, like those men who are humiliated at work, they come home and beat up children and women. So, in that sense, I think that defining the relationship between professional autonomy, public administration and the state in a narrow sense, I have to do at the level of serious work. Because every existing government speaking the way Mr. Boras used to say, which I like is a man, a position, a conjecture for cleaning up to three, four years. We must protect it, because it is absurd and I end it, that only those institutions that are protected by the international community are protected in Croatia. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank, therefore behind it stands the International Monetary Fund Director of Croatian Television in principle, because behind it stands I do not know the Council of Europe or whoever you want. But these unfortunates don't, no one smart today will be the head of one hospital, no one will be smart in Croatia today at the head of sports alliances. Because every new political elite thinks it does, it must have its president of the Croatian Olympic Committee. This is what I set up in some way and he's disappointed. But what we can do, that's fate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3660	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Slaven Letica. To correct an incorrect quote, right? Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3661	Mr. Letica, my dear colleague, my dear colleague. The former ambassadors and the general consuls did not return because they were as you said "unwritten" under the supposed signs, they did not know, but returned them, beware, but returned them because of the belonging of the Croatian Democratic Community, the party, not I say under the supposed signs, it was one. And they were leaving their jugodiplomats, so Mr. Coli Picula, who is sitting here right now in our representative benches, I think he's carrying on his soul several such fates that are not so simple and easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3662	Thank you. It's on behalf of the Club of Libre, the esteemed representative William Herman. I apologize, before one notification that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3663	Mr. President, actually the chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think that we are discussing two laws that are not only welcome, but should have a significant impact on the social atmosphere, on the political atmosphere, actually relate literally to the way between people to fix these relationships between people, because indeed in Croatia elections are seen as elemental disasters, especially for those who have lost and then there is a lot that actually feels in human souls the simplest way, as literally fear. And if this wasn't said so clearly, I don't think it would actually be about the subject and these two laws, or their matter, either honestly or openly. It's really happening that there's a syntagma. Well, here's ours now, and we have a real chance. What does this real opportunity really mean, and what will be the real opportunity? It's a notorious question, one called legal security on one side of the institutions, their missing authority, but also the legal certainty of the individual, all the way to truly personal integrity. So if what I said first is true, that there is this anger, that uncertainty, which is actually the result of the election, then, and just as the impression that it's true, it's too important to actually enter into, not only a serious debate, but also in an attempt to create, I would call it a kind of social contract, which will allow this matter to be regulated, not as a competition of different laws, which is not, of course, bad, but actually as a kind of social contract that solves issues of the social atmosphere, which solves issues of the authority of the state institutions, and of course, which solves no less important question of dignity of a person. That's why I think political arrangements are needed. I think they are needed in one broad way, and it will not be enough to stick only to what is a matter of procedure in this House, first reading, and second reading, of course, that procedure is inevitable, but it is necessary to agree equally in political arrangements in a broad way that can actually be something under the social contract or the convention of conduct in the transfer or handover of power. Here, even in the name of these two laws trying to create a rivalry relationship where the HSP promoter is not at all responsible for... rivalry because this later proposal wants to differ even by title. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? There is no serious law that calls this law a wise proposal, a law on the transfer and handover of power. Would any of the promoters feel hurt about it? But of course this icon only to show that in cooperation relations without therefore unnecessary rivalry, this important substance has to be solved. But sometimes it seems and it is an attempt to answer the question of how we are in a relatively mature age as it is pathetically said Croatian democracy trying to pass this law. And here, to be honest, consistent should be said that in one way or another, the political elite simply replied that this area was not fully defined and even less legally regulated. Because every legal regulation creates legal certainty, definition, game rules and as much certainty as possible. The area of uncertainty seems to fit the political elites because the next step that allows when a particular area is being unsecured is that the political elite simply arbitration. Every complaint of arbitration, of course, endangers once again the authority of the institutions, equally legal security, to what offends or damages personal dignity and integrity. Let me also say a few remarks, the transfer of power after parliamentary elections, or the formation of a new parliamentary majority was not the subject of legislative legislation. And the transition period, this is why ours suffers criticisms that were not too much to be heard from both the public and the NGOs and international circles. In order to further develop and strengthen democracy, the rule of law as well as the political responsibilities of the forces that leave their positions and those that are subject to a conflict between them and the security of persons employed in the system of state administration, this area must therefore, clearly and unequivocally be regulated. Of course, the most important issues and dilemmas are aimed at the administrative, political, human and time dimension of the transfer of power. It is undeniable that the transfer of power should reflect the effective and uninterrupted functioning of the state administration system during the transitional period, the government's action in... in accordance with the Syntagma, the Technical Government and the clear demarcation of political and public officials or professional duties and without prejudice to the functioning of the state administration during the said period. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, very simply, the transfer of power should be swift, efficient, comprehensive, publicly transparent and consistent with the addition of duties at all legally envisaged levels. And, of course, that's where the drama comes in. Therefore, the proposed legislation, perhaps a concrete proposal on the transfer of power, are made clear and are nomotechnically arranged but have, there are also reasons for certain objections. Here, just for example. By observing the parallel solutions, I hold that in this law one and the other should contain guidance in the necessity of building a career diplomatic network in Croatia. That was just before. I'm not sure there were any words in the right way. And then, in turn, a clear determination of quotas that are possible and acceptable in the context of shifts in the diplomatic network, for example. in the UK, Ireland or Australia, even 95% of diplomats are professional diplomats. The Republic of Croatia, as a country of limited financial opportunities, must act necessarily towards building a professional, career diplomatic network regardless of political changes and of course shifts. By prescribing quotas that are permitted in the context of change and transfer of authorities, it would avoid uncertainty in the pursuit of diplomatic services and save significant material resources aimed at systematic education of professional diplomats rather than short-term expensive and insufficiently effective, under quotes of "expanded" courses intended for so-called "expansion". Contract diplomats. The dilemma that has shown itself in the presentation of several colleagues and I fully agree that it is a dilemma is the story of professionals in the state administration but I think it is a position to talk about professionals in the state administration and also about the level of shift until a consistent and comprehensive reform of the state administration is carried out that has been announced. There have been proposals to make a full proposal in this assembly, it hasn't happened yet. The only thing that has happened is that here and there, with the reduction of ministries and in fact the increased number of employees, something that is not even like reform, the reform of the state administration. Therefore, the issue of professionals in the state administration and the resolution of their status or change in this law is not actually possible, it is not possible to be honest and responsible unless a reform of the state administration is previously implemented. This will only be a pose, a principle legal solution without actually being able to achieve the desired effects. It is also right and we agree with this highlighted question and what about those levels that belong to the counties or rather I would like to hear and tell the regional levels and local levels which are today the area of total legal uncertainty. Examples that illustrate gentlemen’s relations in this area or in that area can be discussed, but such individual examples could prove to be quite the opposite. Right where there was no gentlemanhood or where certain knights acted as they did. We Slavons like to read this knight as sheriff. It is therefore that this area should also be regulated whether in this matter or in the matter of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government it is entirely irrelevant but in this area it is also necessary to do everything about legal certainty. It was said at one point that if I'm not mistaken, the proposer on behalf of the HSP Club that 90% of the matter is actually identical to the proposed law to the one proposed by the Government. It's denied by the motionors, by the government, and now should probably fall some light consultation and see what the statistical data is actually accurate. But it's obvious that there's some statistical data that we're working on. Is that 90% or 50% we don't know exactly. But it is interesting that the proposer, or government, did not have the need to examine that percentage. And then he actually went to the raggedy of what the Club Libre is trying to pawn. And that's to happen some kind of social contract as the first part of the convention here agreeing on fundamental issues in our Parliament. And then one step further may also be a public debate and thus create two necessary circumstances. First, to include indeed the public to judge this matter, and then to ultimately achieve a second reading. And that's to get a lot of what I firmly repeat three times, something that not only reminds but really is a social contract. Is it possible to go that way in Croatia and do something that will remind you of the real pedagogy? If we're so complaining that there's no rule of law we weren't from these clubs and this place from this chat room should have gone on a message like this. So it's very important that there's a legal thing going on, and the task here should be, with the rest, that legal pedagogy. Here's to 'cause okay, with the talker. Thank you very much. Klub LIBRE will support the HSP proposal, will support the HSP proposal with a request with a cover, of course, it has no other effects except that it seems nice to agree and possibly have in mind some other proposals that have come on my part immodestly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3664	I thank the esteemed representative Herman. On behalf of Klub HSPa, the word has a distinguished representative Pero Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3665	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of the club, I will first of all look back at the government's proposal for a law on the process of handing over power. And it's a lot easier for me to talk about in terms of how it's a bad proposal than it was for Mr. Boras who had to defend it on behalf of the HDZ. Or that there is Mr. Palaric, who must do the same on official duty. In fact, what we see here in these series of legislative proposals when the opposition comes with its proposal, then the government better wants to respond to such a proposal. And make a trap for yourself that he can't get out of a coke. I suggest to the government to stick to her program of work that she promised us here and the proposals coming from the opposition can be encrypted, say she will take over in the second reading. And not to put yourself in a position to essentially blaspheme in a way that gives regulations to the proposals of the killings that are essentially so badly made that the word is a baffled mild word. Why would I say that? The first thing that's good at this. It's a good constitutional basis, it's a good assessment of the situation, but we're going to some basic questions. Veli, the basic issues proposed to regulate this Act and now says the course of the procedure for the transfer of power, about the circumstances in which the procedure continues. And what's forgotten, one important part is forgotten if it wants to do it professionally and qualityly how it's done and simulated. The period since the election is called, this is a very important period that must be resolved by this law as to why it does the regulation for the legal forces and other things that the Government continues to exercise its powers. In a way that democratically all agreed on what and in what form and how it can act during this period. Can a regulation with a legal power go in a way that changes the essence and essence of the law, or just some of the most necessary things. And normally that's what the government said nicely in that part of the basis of the questions. And now we come to the very proposal of the law. And he says the law normly that it would be a different law than ours, if they, the government gave it the same, then that's not it. It's got to be different in that too. And now smart people take it and say it in the government I mean, a bill on the process of handing over power. And now let's take any languageists, any man off the road, and ask him if the notion of power transfer is ever more involved than the procedure itself of handing over power. And everyone's gonna say it, 'cause this is just the part. And of course only part of that direct part is me to you. We're handing over the records, and that's the situation. Why did I say that I was glad to admire Mr. Boras for having the strength to defend the government's draft law, because he, as chairman of the Legislative Committee, had to sign the pronouns on behalf of the Legislative Committee, and it is evident that the Committee for Legislative Affairs itself, although this is a mild thing, can be said roughly that it is not right. THE Committee’s comments on the 10th article are normally the tenth, when the law comes into force, on eight articles. Then it is already visible how stronger and what law is the word. So imagine when the first article has an observation because it is not defined which one circle of persons If we were to literally turn out it would or would be visible not to refer to ministers. If we literally translate to read this article first. And now that it's going on, let's get to the second article. It is also done in a hurry, so it is said that the authorities are handing over the performance after the Croatian Parliament's constitution, after the conduct of parliamentary elections as well as by formulating a new executive authority. And now I wonder when he's performing. Is that what you need to know two different situations? The Assembly may be established, but the new executive power is not appointed. There is a mandated assembly being established, the prime minister is unable to put the government together, what the president of the country is doing is giving the second term. Is that right, and now that it begins under this bill that part of the law, if one part of it starts safely as soon as the Parliament is established, it should be said to what extent it begins. So most importantly, the most important thing by us is that we are here and most agreed towards the Croatian people that when the Croatian Parliament adopts regulations, let us give and simulate what the provision will mean in practice and implementation. Is this visible that it's really messed up? And now let's move on the situation there are saying, mandate is being made available. Now it doesn't say how you put it on the table. If we're going to regulate it, whether it's written or not, that's how the logic of things was written, what if someone won't put a mandate at their disposal. There's nothing planned for this situation. Are you careful there may be a variant of someone in a public enterprise or one of these officials will not put a mandate at their disposal. A legal situation is possible, right? Then what does it mean? It wasn't the law that was passed on to him. Because he won't put a mandate at his disposal. Is it said in the part where someone put a mandate at their disposal then the government has to say within 30 days they can even keep it, and can say it's being resolved. And what in this situation you didn't predict. So these are the legal situations that are like this and what, we have another variant now. Veli, the government operating the mandate is appointed, the parliament was established, and now it must negotiate with the mandate during that period over all these capital and large decisions. So what happens now if that prime minister fails to put the government together and he misinformed them, then some other prime minister comes. Who will now be responsible for all these situations that have arisen. According to this, this attempt has turned out so badly that all one provision is missing and then the matter has been tried to save what, Article 9 and says all the provisions of this Act have to be interpreted in favour of achieving also the state of regular and uninterrupted action of state bodies and the exercise of state and other duties. That's what war would say, this directive. So it would be some kind of directive that I've never seen before in the regulations in the Republic of Croatia, but apparently some new legal papers are being introduced. Therefore, it is visible from all this part that our law of the HSP club is far more complete and I think that the government would, on principle of morality and I suggest that it withdraws its bill of law, that our first reading goes through and the government assumes the obligation to make the right law, because this way, the government steps up, I don't think it fits the name of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3666	I thank the esteemed representative Kovacevic. With this, we've exhausted the club debates and we're moving on to an individual debate for ten minutes. Dear Zgrebec's distinguished representative is coming.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3667	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is good that we have opened a debate on these two draft laws that are actually trying to resolve the process of handing over authorities, such as the name of the law proposed by the Government, namely the transfer of power proposed by the HSP club. I think it's good because now we're at the beginning of the mandate and we have enough time to have some of the choices that may be made by them extraordinary or regular we can discuss this matter well and bring the best solution. So I think that regardless of what the Government and the HSP are proposing in the first reading, it might be good to have a previous debate about it, and then, on the basis of the debate and these two proposals, we try to come up with such a bill that will really solve these problems. The problem of handing over authorities is always tied up after the elections, and that is if a new political option comes to power. We had this for the first time in 1990 and then only after 10 years in 2000 and now in 2004. When we do not have a legal solution to these issues, then always in public, any change in the state administration or in other state institutions can open a debate on possible rematch or that the political option that is in power actually wants to bring people their political orientations. I think that, in fact, as part of the reform of the state administration, it would be necessary to establish the systematisation of business and public tendering. In fact, we would be in a situation where, in those most professional jobs, both in the state administration and in the state institutions, any changes come only after the end of the mandate or in the assessment of inadequate or poor professional conduct. It should be settled what is the political level of performance and then those are the jobs or those officials who, in the case of a change of government, are subject to a political assessment after the election of their position. I therefore think that and as far as Article 5 of the Law proposed by the Government is concerned, at the time, we could distinguish what professional jobs would be completed through public competitions with adequate expertise that would prescribe adequate expertise and adequate work experience, which would be political functions that would be determined and changed after the election. So very briefly to conclude. I don't think we're mature that at this point based on the kind of proposal the government made, we can accept the bill in the first reading. I think that this debate and both proposals should be used, because HSP colleagues are slightly broader in regulation of this matter and only then can we come up with a bill of law, or a law that would be discussed again in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3668	I thank the esteemed representative Zgrebec. It's the honorary representative of Stazic's turn. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate. It's Mr. Leco's honorary representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I won't be talking about this bill for long, but I have to say in a certain way that I'm surprised by the debate of the HDZ Club on the proposal of this law. I'm sorry if I misunderstood the debate, but it's my impression that this debate was going this way. We were given the right to manage the state no matter what it was before, so the HDZ representative was surprised that the previous government had adopted a programme that would invest in Vukovar as if it had been a violation of the discontinuity of state law, and it was not disputed that the coalition and therefore suffered criticism from the citizens might have lost power in these elections, which all the legal acts respected and implemented by the Croatian government, the HDZ government had brought ten years and had not occurred to her, although there was reason to annul some acts, to say it was brought by the HDZ government. It was a state government and state legal acts are valid for every government otherwise there's no point in talking about the rule of law and the rule of law if we don't set things up. Another thesis. The handover of the authorities is not a staff issue, although it now looks very significant. It is important for those who have to leave each position or those who have to come to a particular position, but for the citizens, for the state, for the right, for the rule of law, for the rule of law, it is less important and the transfer of power has to mean precisely the transfer of the obligation of continuity, the continuity of human beings has to be understood and change is another question and, of course, we need to discuss it, but the transfer of power is a slightly broader problem than the change of people themselves. I, of course, think that it's a very important legal certainty, so I'm also pushing for laws and regulations to be passed that will settle the issue and the staff change, the human dimension of the change of government, but if we bring it down to that alone, we won't solve the problem. In other words, it would be necessary to try and determine when it comes to the period when certain acts are not adopted, which is the period, which means the transitional period, which means the Technical Government which I disagree with the HDZ Club's qualification that it was a technical government, because it is about the mandate and the right and obligations of the Government to address issues that are on the agenda. One more thing. The transfer of power is, of course, not only at the state level, although it is the most attractive. The transfer of power takes place at all levels, local, regional and national levels and of course the principles on the transfer of power should be installed for all levels, for all levels and for the humane dimension of the government's handover also for all levels. If we continue this way of debate, I think we would cloud the problem which could damage the reputation of the Republic of Croatia because it could be understood that each subsequent government has no obligation to implement the decisions and acts of the previous government. I hope that no one in the Parliament thinks that, therefore, I would pray when it comes to the transfer of power to take into account the international position, that is, the international position of the Croatian government, and that they will be respected in the full amount that has been taken over, regardless of what the Government has signed, we have treated and treated the state's obligations, please continue to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3670	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. It's our guest, Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3671	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The initiative to pass the Law on Transfer of Authorities after the elections are held in the Republic of Croatia should be supported no matter what side the initiative comes from. Croatia is a small country with slightly less than 4 and a half million inhabitants. With all the unsettled natural resources of this comparative advantage that we have as a country, our greatest wealth is our own. We simply have to take care of the human resources we possess, because only using the common sense we possess can we create assumptions for the construction of society, which should ultimately ensure a better life for all of our citizens. We can't throw away any man as an only child. Staff who, after a change of authority, leave office immediately shall not be considered to be rejected or discriminated against. Their brains, knowledge and experience must be operational. In order to avoid accusations and negative antagonisms that sometimes almost lead not only to opposition but almost to hatred among former friends, it is necessary to define the rules of the game really all, or mostly all functions on which the election results are based. In this case, the individual is clearly and consciously following a specific political option, by coming and the political options to power are being implemented by its political programme, which has received majority support from the electoral body, and by coming down and the options from the authorities are leaving the post as well. These are the rules, which have been agreed in advance, the transfer of power is done without trauma and trestle, the charges of rematchism and the chicaning of people who unfortunately in our society of insufficient democratic traditions have disappeared. The sequence of personnel was carried out throughout the period 1990 to 2000. Advocating the rules of the game, in the absence of these rules, it is my right to think and to express my thought here in this Croatian Assembly that there may have been individual errors after January 3rd but I am also convinced that the changes after January 3rd were neither fast enough nor comprehensive and that it was precisely thanks to the democracy and tolerance of Ivica Racan, that many of the personnel who were to be replaced and to leave the functions and places they held had not left those places and I was aware of that floor where the 3 January authorities had to put their backs. In the current situation when we do not have the rules of the game again, my democratic right to think, unfortunately, that negative practice continues today. I have absolutely no objection to professional affairs, as said personnel who will implement HDZ policy but I am convinced that for the community it is harmful members, for example, of administrative councils in the 8th constituency at the Rijeka Clinical Hospital Centre to change it because of political belonging, especially in the situation when it comes to the mayor and mayor. However, I am free to refer to Article 134(2). The Croatian Constitution, which I quote, states: "It is an obligation and the right of regional self-government to carry out, among other things, health-related jobs." Health care is an activity that is of priority to our citizens and should enable units of regional self-government to exercise that right, but I am convinced that the obligations of the state must also impose, impose health care on them, including through the participation of mayors and mayors in the administrative councils of clinical, for example the Clinical Hospital Centre, because I think that it is in this place that they must give their pain to the development of health care and not that in this lack of rules of the game to be replaced and perhaps that I can't give that assessment possibly incompetent personnel. In addition to cutting down people that are not subject to the rules of the game at the state level, it is even more prominent that the cut of personnel at local and regional level, where various local sheriffs are simply living after the change of government. It is my suggestion that, after the adoption of the Law on Change of Government at national level, certain rules of the game are adopted at both local and regional level, where it is also necessary to know who is leaving and who remains a change of government. Finally, colleagues and colleagues, with the aim of introducing rules of the game and allowing democratic change of power after the elections or after the formation of the majority, while at the same time preserving our human resources, it is necessary to adopt this Law. I agree with Mr. Rožić's assessment that the amendment to the government could indeed intervene in the proposal of the Croatian party's representative club and achieve that this Law could be passed by consensus in this House of Honor. I am convinced and I appeal to the second reading to find a way to achieve what I am in my brief debate, which is identical in a few with the discussion of other colleagues regardless of party membership to be passed. And in that sense, and expecting that it will be right away, I think there is likely to be a printing error in the proposal which the Croatian Party has submitted in Articles 4 and 5, it has been inverted by citing points 3 and 4 of Article 1 of that Bill proposal, so if it is discussed and it is in a position to bring it forward to correct it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3672	I'd like to thank the trained representative. The word has a distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. He's losing his right to debate. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3673	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I really wouldn't be much longer after these exhaustive debates, but let me, given that this is the first reading I have to present, and I believe that we all agreed that this regulation should actually be passed, and what are the reasons why I should dare say as soon as possible or in the legal procedure. The first reasons are of course the legal nature because we have not had such regulations until now, of course. So it fills one legal void. A relationship that has not been regulated so far has been regulated. One legal uncertainty is removed even existential uncertainty and so on. The second reason for me is of course a political sociological nature and it is expressed in the fact that the handover of the government is not a single political option with the other, therefore some sort of rematch or cleanup, but rather a democratic act of changing power. Both third and no less important in terms of the need to adopt this Law, which is the achievement in this area of such relations in society that are at the level of the countries of long-standing democratic traditions. As regards the very proposal or text of the law, the bill which the Government of Croatia has given us or the subaract, we have heard a lot of this today, however, I also recognize in it a certain normative quality, of course, although which may still need some improvement in those fines, but the proposal of this law clearly defines when the handover of the government or that time dimension occurs, so let me actually say that, under those provisions of this Bill, this is the case by the constitution of the Croatian Parliament and by the formation of a new executive government, but another concept or element by me is important, where the day of the election is determined or determined as the start of the handover period where we actually have the regulation of the government's activities with two principled prohibitions. So bans on making decisions on appointments by the Government. It's like a principle ban. We have exceptions, of course, in that sphere. We have, of course, a ban on making decisions or making contracts on investment of a more significant value. So these are the elements in my opinion that the time scale itself contributes to the handover of the authorities, but there are also those provisions that work out exactly which state officials make available and in which time limits, which are also important for me, are regulated by the working-legal status of state officials who have put their mandate at their disposal. Is he in the right way in view of these other regulations that regulate this area? We leave it to the government's professional services to see since it's a first reading, but I don't think this is a legal solution or a proposal, and it's not that bad or bad. And no doubt that it is separated by the very application of the Law itself by a political function from professional or professional functions. Without such a law or the application of this Law, we simply but may be in a situation to decide but this distinction will now be either separate from the basis of the regulation itself and some doubt should not be, although I agree with all those who have discussed it in the sense that the right level of incurring in, in, as far as the structure itself is concerned, the administrative organisations themselves, especially when it comes to whether it can be one step more or less, given that it is the first reading I assume that the professional services of the Government will finally or perhaps another point of view. And finally to conclude with, in the sense of handing over the authorities or applying this regulation, it is always necessary to consider, of course, the necessity of the functioning of the system of administration in continuity. Something about it was our forewords or a lot of them were talking about. It should certainly be borne in mind that even by handing over the government must not particularly take place in the sphere of state administration any discontinuity or any interruption of certain activities. On the contrary, that the life of the administration itself should not stand in or in any realm. I don't think anyone mentioned that this is actually about organic law. So it's one constitutional category that involves, of course, not one form of consensus in itself, but one broad discussion. This is only the first reading and it is my wish and I personally hope that in one such debate, in such an atmosphere, the legislator will find the most optimal solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3674	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Velimir Plesa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3675	Prime Minister so I think it is necessary to say that in Croatia the exchange of power is no longer in question, I mean that democratic shift of power. I am also convinced that this democratic progress in Croatia that we were able to hear about four years ago a story about how HDZ will prevent the transfer of power, will not allow a normal, peaceful transfer of power now... One extension that appears precisely in this matter that these two bill proposals offer us. [[You don't understand a word.]] By disbanding the parliament and calling elections in Croatia because of the situation still in the political arena and lack of political culture, Croatia is always entering a period of serious political instability. The additional reason for instability is certainly high politicisation and low level of expertise of the Croatian public administration. This particular part is very important when it comes to the adoption of this Law, which two proposals are now under discussion. We want as a stable democratic state in any case to respect the principles on which public administration will operate. First of all, the principles of its competence and political neutrality as it will only allow public administration to function as an element of the stability of the political system. Unfortunately, we do not have or have very few political neutral public administrations in Croatia, and the principle of competence is rarely respected in the promotion of public officials. Part of the public administration has been a good part since before 1990, I don't like to go back to those periods, but I think it needs to be mentioned because he's been hostile to the current administration all along, and the end of her term of office just sharpened the obstruction that such administration could not limit. A part of public officials during these 14 years of democracy in Croatia owed their promotion within the system and owed the current administration, current ministers and felt attached to it which led to political subordination. These relationships were very often personal, personal because gratitude was owed to or owed to a specific minister or faction within some of the parties or politicians who were in power at that time. And the additional reason in any case such instability and uncertainty stems from the fact that Croatia does not have a regulated process of transfer of power and that there are no ordinary nor regulated exactly to the end of what a technical government should do and what it must not do. For this reason, I think it is necessary to agree this law in the second reading both on the part of the government's proposal and on the part of the Croatian party's proposal. And if indeed it were exactly what we could hear today from the opposition benches how much better the HSP proposal is. I ask myself why two years ago when this proposal was found in the legal procedure, and when it was proposed to be on the Parliament's agenda, then the government, and today's opposition didn't react in the same way, it means two years ago it passed a law like this. and lastly, just another suggestion to the representatives of the Central Office of State Administration. I ask that, as soon as you find people, because I see that the burden that you are exposed to the very laws that you have to write, leads to the fact that the new 10 articles of the law personally have a terrible amount of objections to the nomotechnical nature, and I think that's just the reason that some things just run away from you, so in the second reading, suggest a law in a nomotechnical sense as we expect it to be as parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3676	Thank you. There are no more registered deputies. Does the Proposer want a representative? State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3677	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank all those who supported the need to pass laws governing the procedure for handing over authorities, regardless of what the law will ultimately be called. We will not engage in the evaluation of the value of the second law, the law of the Croatian party's representative. We're a little surprised by the level of discussion that evaluated this bill. The rules of nomotechnics are not prescribed anywhere, this has passed and the Office of the Government's Legislatives, anyone can have an opinion on it. But in the second reading, we will strive to install, elaborate, think. But we want to stress that our law is more comprehensive, that only the question of picking up functions that people who have to leave their posts, that the practice has already solved it, and that this cannot be the focus of the law, but rather the creation of obligations to the future government, the appointment at a time when there is no political control and other issues that propose to regulate this law are, in fact, crucial to the government, not the taking of functions themselves. It's a matter of conventions, I think the practice has already arranged enough for Croatia to have no rematchism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3678	Thank you very much. He wants another representative of the draft law? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3679	Thank you, colleague Nenadić. We're moving on to the debate. The next is you, therefore, Mr. Zeljko Nenadić. Mr. Nenadic, it's your turn to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3680	Proposal for a law on the transfer of power, first reading, P.Z. Number 13. The proposed law is the Club of HSP Representatives. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on the transfer of power proposed by the HSP Representatives Club is not adopted for the reasons set out in the reports of the working authorities and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 77 votes in favour and 24 against the adopted conclusion on the proposed text. We now have _ Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law – Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 23. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 31. Which law is proposed by the Government. And when we set up the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure for the adoption of this law. I also propose a united debate on these two draft laws. If the Parliament agrees to hold a united debate? Okay. Please, then, the representative of the legislator No. 23. The SDP Club, do they want to state, explain the additional bill? Dear Representative Nenad Stazic on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3732	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. With this law as a club, we're out of luck. When we wanted to discuss this law as a club at the last session of the Parliament, the President of the Parliament took our word. Risking now to go the same way and having the president take our word again, this time as a proposal we will dare to say a few thoughts about the proposed legislative changes. But first something about a united debate. Here we are, for the third time, having a united debate on the legal proposals of the same name. Why? For the simple reason, that every high-quality legislative proposal that comes from opposition lines, and all of them are in order of quality, the Government reacts by quickly copying this proposal, some or some changes in it, and then sending it to the Parliament as its own. And for the opposition who inspired her to do legislative work in the opinion delivered to the Parliament, she says it is not acceptable. This practice, as we can see, becomes a bit of a rule, not an exception, because only today, so during just one working day, the case has been repeated here for the third time. So this is just today the third legislative proposal on which the government demonstrates its complete incompetence and incomprehensible inactivity. On February 6th, the SDP Club sent its proposal to the Law on the Rights of Officials, and on February 12th, the government also reacts and sends its own proposal for the same law. But it's not the only strangeness that characterizes this bill. Namely, this law that we changed in the last session of the Parliament, and now here we change it again. So again, it's not the only law, which seems to be at least as far as the government is concerned, in the phase of permanent change. So last night, we discussed the Law on the Design and Dioculars of the Ministries, even though we had already changed the law at the last session. But what we can do is, I guess that's the fate of government's legal proposals, to come here unimaginable and unspeakable, so one of these same laws is changing from session to session, and that's how the vision of such government activities is created. Let us remind, however, how this law has been changed twice in such a short time, and whether there was any need to do so. Everyone knows what happened that Friday, because it was one of those events that would be difficult, if you'll ever forget. The meek event threw an indelible stain on the dignity of this high house, and the current president of the Parliament marked it with a seal that would wear permanently as long as he lived. He will certainly enter the Croatian Parliament's annals as a precedent, as since the establishment of the Croatian state, it has not happened that any president, any parliamentary club, has banned his opinion on any legislative proposal. And what did we deserve it for? Nothing. At that time, we had a modest intention to invite the government to change the law and Article 15. So this same article she's proposing to change now. That's all, and nothing else. But in that good intention, we were unfortunately harshly prevented. The president of the parliament did not at all allow the SDP Club to make its proposal, thereby giving its own personal and recognizable contribution to the development of parliamentaryism in Croatia. I've already said at the outset that this bill of ours has prompted the government to direct its own. But what moved us to propose a legal change? And it's well-known. It was those scandalous appointments when Mrs. Štefanija Bortek-Nestaurek was appointed as the ministry's assistant minister and her colleague's secretary in all kinds of affairs, Marijan Krizic. For another reason, we have found in the appointment of the painful Chachia as assistant minister of the interior. It's just to remind those who don't know it yet, although I suspect there's a lot of the same Chachia who violated the Law of Service in the Armed Forces and as an active military figure for the MORH sick but otherwise apparently perfectly healthy and in perfect condition was the head of the insurance of HDZ's pre-election campaign and was rewarded for this by a high state position. And we have proposed an amendment so that even such pearls would not have the right to receive their debt wages another year after their end, according to all the doubtful mandate. We predicted they'd have to stay on duty for at least six months. The government is copying our idea of trying to be stricter and proposing a period of a year. We think it's complete and relevant which deadline we decide on. Maybe even this one of six months is more appropriate because we are still going from the optimistic assumption that not all officials appointed by the HDZ government will be dragging the Chachi tails behind us. For all those who are high - quality and upright, this kind of six - month trial is sufficient. Unless the government has us some unknown judgments that the sins of their government officials are so deeply buried, it will take a whole year to reveal them. We're not that suspicious after all. In fact, we are more concerned about that article 15 and the Government proposal which states that the official cannot exercise the right to pay after the end of his duty if he is resolved because of the earlier existence of facts that he knew or had to be known at the time of his appointment and did not present them to the promoter, but which he could assume would be an objective obstacle to his appointment in office. It's a strange ruse of expressions. But this provision has been completely missed given the reasons why the law is changing. Namely, they're not Mrs... Mr. Krizic and Mr. Krizic have failed nothing about their way of spending budget money during the first HDZ administration knows everything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was the subject of an audit report by Šima Krasic, which was discussed here in the assembly and the representatives were Mrs Kosor and Mr Sanader at the time. So they knew what these two were doing, but they were still called on duty as probationed personnel from the first administration. And who's more guilty now? Those two whose unholy actions were known or those who knew them despite what they had been called? Chachia's stuff is even worse. Mr. Sanader not only knew that Chachia violated the Armed Forces Service Act but directly encouraged him to engage him in the HDZ campaign. Even though he knew he was an active military face. And now who's more to blame? Cacia, who has agreed to break the law to promise an entry position or a man who forces a soldier to break the law and is about to become Croatian prime minister. For me, but I believe there's no doubt about the public. And that is why this article, which punishes the appointed ones, not those who appointed them, and which before that led them not only to immoral but also to legitimate acts, has been completely missed. It would indeed be more than naive to hope that the Government will change the provisions of this article with some of its amendments and introduce responsibility for its first names. But that is why the SDP refers to an amendment under which an official would not have the right to pay after the end of his duty if his duties were resolved because of the unlawful or obvious unconscious conduct of his duties, the difficult violation of the rules on the prevention of conflicts of interest or other dishonest behaviour which makes him unworthy of his or her duties. In that case, it doesn't matter how much time he spent acting on duty, six months, one year, three years of amendments we submitted to the government's bill of law because we have no illusions about which of these two legislative proposals will be supported by the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3733	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Stazic uses the Assembly speaker and his performance, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, that he allows himself such claims that I, as the current president of the Parliament, had been marked by a permanent seal by no less than one procedure when I took away his word. My colleague Stazic, when you call it a special Friday, I guess it wasn't a big Friday or a black Friday for me or for you right after the transition from two sentences to the current draft law which was referred to in the procedure and tried multiple times to talk about the work of a law that was not a proposal for discussion. I have warned you several times, in accordance with Article 210, that you stick to the agenda and topic. The fact that you're re-energizing it today and giving some great meaning as if it were some special precedent. In the previous assembly of the Parliament, I am at the first constitutive session of the Parliament just because I am as president and club president and acting party president, not that I was, not that I was taken from the word but was prevented and I was told a warning because I dared to ask for a postponement and a break for the club's session. You supported it. No precedent has been given to anyone, this has happened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and without the Rules of Procedure in the previous Parliament's meeting that the party's president, who was on several occasions Evey Sanader as party president, has been taken away from his word, and it is certainly not a precedent. And you here use this pay phone to the Assembly again and then you will mark my intervention that it is preventing freedom of speech in the Croatian Parliament. When you're accusing the Prime Minister publicly in front of a pay phone that he knew that Chachia was law enforcement, that he even encouraged him to break the law, that he had encouraged him to commit immoral and illegal acts, it was for you freedom of speech and not freedom of speech and freedom of opinion when he returned that without any evidence or arguments with very difficult qualifications and accusations, and not only charges but also convictions and condemns the Prime Minister to encourage, to immoral and illegal acts, to criminal acts. When you accuse me uninterrupted here, when you accuse the entire Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, when you condemn the Club of Representatives of the Democratic Community, then you should know that it is no shortfall when you and the reasoned freedom of speech and freedom of opinion are answered. That's interesting when the one object that I bring out when I'm apostrophe just before I'm a representative of the Stazic who drags me down and condemns that I've done some big crime then I should be silent. It did not happen in this assembly that it was the President of the Parliament to take it in such a way as you did, I do so according to the Rules of Procedure and my powers and answer. Who was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You're too fast. Who's looking, Mr. Leco? Mr. Light, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3734	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament would like to hear your debate, but please lower yourself to the level of parliamentary representative, leave the chair of the President of the Croatian Parliament for a pay phone and discuss and do not use the chair of the President of the Croatian Parliament in order to make your differences with the debate of a representative no matter how many of you. So nowhere in the article on the rights and obligations of President-in-Office of the Parliament is it possible for one representative, whether he liked it or not. I ask you nicely to descend to the level of counsel, come down for a pay phone and state your views on your behalf and on behalf of your party. I'll be grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3735	I thank you for this lesson. I know my business rights and I know Article 223(2), I know it very well, I know the other articles of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, and I know that you probably know that you should specify some provision of the Rules of Procedure that you hold in mind that I have told you what I am removing. Here you go, Comrade Skazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3736	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, be so kind as to give me an article by which Rules of Procedure you give me a lecture. By article. In accordance with Article 32, which provides for the powers of the President of the Parliament. You are authorized to give explanations and interpretations, but I did not ask you for any explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3737	You didn't listen well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3738	And I haven't heard that anyone else in the House has asked for an explanation of your and the interpretation of my speech on behalf of the motionary. As for your way of running the session, even when you took away your word on behalf of the club, you know very well that I was talking about the law in question. The debate was conducted by an emergency procedure that unites the first and second readings. That the right reading of the debates leads to details but to the whole. So when we discussed the extension of maternity leave before that, everyone also talked about demographics in Croatia in general. You're no one's... The speaker has been turned off..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3739	Thank you very much. State Secretary Antun Palarić please choose a reasoned proposal. You had a correction to an incorrect quote. Okay. Here is representative Ivan Jarnjak. /Speakers speak out loud/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3740	I would ask you to pick up the tablet and I answered the phone. /The speaker has been disabled/... Shime's not shutting down. It's an incorrect assumption, Mr. Darling, that the prime minister has encouraged someone to go to an anti-zoonite shop. If that's true and you claim her here, then you are obliged as citizens of the Republic of Croatia to report it. It's not a speech that should be here in this assembly, it's a fellow dear hate speech. It's not good. It doesn't lead to anything. And at least this House deserves this House. Because only three months ago, you had a completely different discussion. Get back in those three months and you'll be a real Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3741	Mr. Palaric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3742	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed a law supplementing the law on the obligations and rights of state officials with a final draft law. The government sent this bill on February 12, 2004, and I must say responsibly that we have not stolen anyone's idea or asked for guidance, this is our original will. Anyone who has any knowledge of the government's work technology is aware of the fact that the bodies that make the law up to the government's session when it is directed by the body until it is delivered to the government's session for at least eight days. Legislative proposals are sent on Wednesdays and Thursdays to discuss with the government's task force through coordination to meet at the government's meeting. So we sent it 8 days before February 12th, so let it be known who first proposed to intervene in this legal article. We even wanted to make an amendment while he was reading this Law on the Rights of Officials, which was necessary to bring the new category of civil servants to order wages. But the Rules of Procedure did not allow it, so we decided to amend it by supplementing Article 15. The law. In principle, there must be a right to Article 15. That state officials must have security instruments like something similar to that of civil servants so that employees of private employers each have the right to cease their duties, so it is good that our law does so. However, we want a series of measures to be one of these laws on preventing conflicts of interest between private and public duties that we have discussed. So the Law on the Procedure and Transfer of Authorities and this Law make it unattractive to Article 15 and to promote the discipline of the conduct of civil servants especially in the executive authority. This supplement refers naturally to those government officials who were appointed or elected after 15 January 2004, all of whom are officials in the executive authority other than the Government who has their own political responsibility and who has been elected before. We really want this law to prevent the possibility of someone being elected as a state official and to deny any information about themselves that could have been determined about his moral character, his previous behavior. We do not force as it was heard in the debate on the committees of citizens to report themselves, to testify against themselves of course not, but we want that when someone is a candidate for state duty to tell about themselves everything that is supposed to be determined for his appointment. Furthermore, we want to restrict the right to those civil servants who are in the service and regardless of their service, but during the course of the service, they behave in such a way as to be convicted of a criminal offence, regardless of which criminal act if convicted of imprisonment is unconditional, and for some crimes, they would lose this right, even if convicted of parole or given fines whenever possible, by applying the conditions of mitigation. These are crimes against the freedom of man and citizen, against the Republic of Croatia and values protected by international law. For those crimes, if he is a state official, he will be relieved and will lose this right regardless of what punishment he will be given. It is possible for someone to accept the behaviour of a state office and for any reason to give up whether to offer him the opportunity to run a private business, whether it is simply not possible to bear the burden anymore, because in most cases, the state's duty is a great responsibility and it is possible for someone to bow down and demand a discharge of their duties. We will accept the resolution, the Government will accept the resolution, but will grant him the right to compensation only if he has performed on that duty or any other duty for at least a year with a proposal that the provisions of Article 15a and 15c refer to all appointed officials by this Government so that these articles have the feedback as possible in accordance with the Constitution. I suggest that this law be passed by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3743	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3744	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the final proposal for a law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the SDP Act of 6 February 2004 and the corrected text of the final proposal of the Law of 19 February 2004. This law has been discussed on the basis of the powers laid down in Article 57. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has not delivered an opinion on the proposed bill. Since the draft law regulates the same issue as the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and after the debate, the committee voted by a majority of votes, 7 votes to, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions, to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the proposal of this law. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at the 5th session held on 24 February 2004 discussed the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 12 February 2004. The Committee also discussed the law referred to above on the basis of its powers as set out in Article 57. Rules of Procedure as a parent body. In the debate, he supported the proposal from the Proposer to pass the law after an urgent procedure. In the debate, the Committee supported the solution set out in the draft law. The debate supports the reasons for the re-action of the law and this provision of 15.a. and 15.c. The opinion is expressed that implementation of the law could lead to difficulties in objectiveising the facts that would be an obstacle to the appointment of duties. After the debate, the committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law by a majority of votes, 7 for and 6 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3745	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents or committee rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the honourable representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS club. He's gone. He's losing his word. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a respected representative, Vice-President of Dom Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3746	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to express on behalf of our club a disdain for the practice that seems to us to be slightly intruding both in the Constitution and in the opposite of the Constitution, and quite certainly the opposite of parliamentaryism and parliamentary democracy that we have with the Constitution prescribed in the Republic of Croatia. According to our Constitution, Article 80(1) of subparagraph 10 states that, among other things, the Assembly quotes: "supervises the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and other public officials responsible for the Croatian Parliament in accordance with the Constitution and the law". Of course, the legislators may be parliamentary representatives, parliament working bodies, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives' clubs, but it does seem to us that the Government assumes the role and supervisory functions of Parliament when it covers the draft laws that come from the ranks of MPs, whether they are individual proposals for MPs, whether the Parliament's clubs or working bodies for a simple reason, because the Government thus expresses that at all costs it wants the laws to come out of its ranks as proposals for legislation to which it is authorised, but it is not authorised to combat a legislative initiative within the framework of a legislative policy which is important in the jurisdiction of this Parliament and in such a situation is not a good practice for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to actually take the laws from MPs and clubs, whether it was full content or even an idea. Another reason that should in principle draw attention to this question is the fact that it curbs the initiative and the work of the MPs at the beginning, because let's not forget a large number, the largest number of our representatives has no office or chair, let alone a professional apparatus that could serve in the preparation and development of the bill. The government has a complete apparatus, it's completely teamed up and, of course, it can do a lot more and it needs a lot more laws to make and prepare as proposals, so there's no need for this small part of the legal proposals and initiatives that come from a line of MPs to actually be covered and taken over by the government. And for this reason, I personally believe that in order to save and fight for pralarliamentarism in Croatia, this practice should be put into effect and that parliament could best respond to such practice and such an idea exactly in such a way that the laws that MPs make fail to read or to adopt with any amendments of the Government, rather than taking over, and in fact deny itself if the Government's draft laws adopt and take over. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system itself, as the president now says, by submitting a report, says that in a specific case the same issue is governed by both drafts of the law, it may be the same question but not in the same content and in the same way. And let me say a few things before the bill's proposals. It is an honor for us from the SDP to actually happen for the first time and the second fact from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which, as far as I've known, has not been in practice since the 1990s that happened as in this particular bill. On the SDP's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Rights of State Officials with the Final Bill, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent two completely identical opinions, one signed by the Prime Minister and the other signed by the Deputy Prime Minister. Obviously, it was very important that it did not happen that the SDP's proposal for a SDP representative should be passed without the government looking back on it to say that it did not support this proposal, although it fully respects the proposal's intention in other words, in fact, the idea and what the proposal proposed by it disagrees with it, but cannot accept these drafts of the law because it has determined that it is the same matter as the chairman of the Constitution's Committee, the same question is regulated by his draft law. I must say that at the speed that the government was doing, of course, to happen and miss, so the first thing I want to warn is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no-technically agreed with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, in the Republic of Croatia, as you know, there is a Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests, and the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in the conduct of public duties, provisions that speak of the duties of state officials have been abolished. Because they were actually solved by the Law of Conflict of Interest. And now this Law also has in its title the duties of state officials, and certainly if it is already changed, it needs to be amended, and the title of this Law, which has been prepared by the Proposer of the Club of Representatives of the SDP and which the Government has not prepared. But that's a minor problem. A far more serious problem is something that is difficult to understand and that is Article 15a. Article 15(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 states that the law of the Member State of the Member State of origin of the Member State of the European Union is to apply to the territory of the Member State of the Member State of the European Union. The law cannot be carried out by a state official relieved of his duties because of the earlier existence of facts which he knew or had to be known at the time of his appointment and did not present them to the applicant but which he could assume would be an objective obstacle to his appointment in office. What does that mean to be an objective obstacle to his appointment to duty? This means that these are facts that are beyond subjective assessment and that, in fact, as such, they must be taxing, or by the principle of numbering, mentioned in the Law and that, in fact, only objectively, the applicant of such a fact can be resolved. In the amendments, in these additions to the Law proposed by the Government, this is numerical, or tax-free, and has not been indicated. We have a big second remark on Article 15b when it is said that duties will be resolved for the sake of a final judgment, for the purpose of committing a criminal offence against the freedom of man and citizen, and I agree with that, against the Republic of Croatia and the values protected by international law, we also agree. If he's legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment, now there's a problem. Whether a slave who will be sentenced to fines for crimes such as damage to other people's property, theft, confiscation of other people's movable property, etc., whether that official will not be relieved of his duties because he is not unconditionally sentenced to prison but is sentenced to probation and fine must pay. The question is, what exactly is hidden from this proposal? One general speed which, at all costs, wanted to prevent the Club of Representatives of the SDP from proposing not only the Law but possibly the Assembly from voting the bill amending and supplementing the law prepared by the SDP Club and thus practically preventing the SDP Club from succeeding, for example, because it is clear to the ruling majority that Article 15 is now being hip in the current Law and given the events that we have had in concrete political practice in the past 2 months, that it can simply no longer survive as such because it needs to be amended... I do not need to further cite the problems arising from this bill as they are even in Article 15c. When it comes to a personal request, because for a simple reason, I think that even these two major remarks that we have previously made are such that it would actually be harmful to adopt this Law supplementing the law proposed by the Government of Croatia and that, at the very least, it should or should be amended by amendment before it is passed by an emergency procedure, or to turn the debate on this Law into a first reading, as the SDP's proposal would turn into a first reading, until the second reading, to prepare a quality bill proposal, rather than such laws that can lead to such a situation to remain in office and those officials who would do minor crimes such as theft, evasion, which are of a moral nature, of course, morally condemning acts in the people, and in citizens, to prescribe such acts. I therefore propose, on behalf of our Club of Representatives, that the Proposer review its proposal and that once again propose to the Parliament to turn this into a first reading and, until the second reading, prepare the amendment and amend it in the final proposal of this Law, if not until the final draft of the law, at least until the vote to amend these few articles, because in fact each article should be completed because this is an unfinished act that came from the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3747	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HSP Representatives, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3748	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I will try very briefly to state the most important position of the HSP Club. The first thing I have to notice is when the heat of the Croatian Parliament's atmosphere between HDZ and SDP is that we are rightists here in the middle, so we can always react in time. The first thing I'm going to say is one important thing, and at some point we can be a buffer zone. Good, we're the spine of the Parliament and it's visible when you sit down. No, no, but the atmosphere was hot. Okay. I'll be back on the subject. So the intention of each and every other bill is good. And we welcome the intention of one, the second draft law from the point of view whether it is normal when it comes to any right, the achievement of any compensation, and especially the debt fees then in the regulations must be accurate and precise all sorts of situations regulated and it is obvious that even before the adoption of such laws has been simulated. What it means in practice when the law was passed, all provisions, how and how it will be implemented and everything that can happen. It's that old variant that someone would be a good chess player must predict at least 3 to 4 moves of his opponent. That principle should also be respected when the law is being done. That means talking about the law, the obligations and the rights of officials, the fundamental one that is now changing. One other proposal must first and foremost highlight one thing which is quite dangerous legally, and this is a matter of feedback or retroactive action of the law, and in the Constitution we have a provision for the team, for return action in general should always be avoided because this is the way both the question and the legal certainty in the state and the legal order. In this case, we know which one, which is why this law, the one and the other. The situation was clear. The Prime Minister said it nicely yesterday. Mistakes were made in three cases. Whoever is doing it can and is wrong, and it's OK, and he's trying to make it right, and it's also legitimate, and that the SDP was trying to score that mistake, he went with his bill. The government is now responding with its bill of law. So in addition to that, the first part that we resent one and the other in return because that the law was done before in a way that everything was covered today shouldn't even come. Around these parts of the nomotechnical and these other Mr. Arlovic said, so I wouldn't repeat these same things again much, but I just have to figure out the following thing: let's just say that according to Article 15a, let's say that the problem of a resolved official is solved. And now I'm going to simulate what that would mean. The first thing to say about officials is security checks. This is an essential fact to apply, for example, Article 15a. And let us take an example of the case of Chachia being solved as set out in Article 15a. The government spokeswoman made it clear that the government had not carried out a security check in the case because it had no confidence in the security services and because of these and other matters, the HSP Club asked to hold a full debate on the situation in the security services. And now let's take this variant so that, for example, Mr. Chachi, who is resolved under Article 15a, he submits a request, for example, that I say, for example, that he submits an application for compensation from Article 15, and now we come to a variant, which means that this question is essentially determined by the principle in Article 15a of that procedure when he submits a request to exercise the right to compensation. In a solution signed by the Prime Minister, and prepared by the government's administrative staff committee as it is called, it means it must explain legally what it is, which is why he rejects it with a request, so he does not exercise the right, for example, to compensation. And now the legal remedy is that, so it's a administrative solution, the administrative act is legal protection, what? The administrative court of Croatia. And I don't know if, easily, it could happen in this case that because of this fact that no security clearance has been carried out in the case, so we should be aware that in these three appointments, the Government is objectively co-responsible, and especially in this case when a security check is sought. And that's why I think it would be wiser if the government's corruption were to fix Article 15 itself to make it clear because here it is also, this is a diction of criminal or criminal acts so it's determined, there are facts, he didn't say those facts. So there would be, the procedure should be read, so obviously, everything in the résumé has to stand exactly what things a person has to say to determine. But that's what I'm saying would be if it were a regular procedure. Therefore, I propose to the Government that if, naturally, this law is likely to be voted upon to really consider what was meant under this Article 15tha, because legally speaking, it could easily happen if, for example, one case were that the Administrative Court would have realistically ruled as let's say that I was a judge in this case looking for a security check, it was not made. It's visible, so that's the government's co-responsibility line. And that's why I'm saying it takes some government to review it on its own with its amendment. And now, what's important to say in all of this, it's important to say, that part, let's say, in the case of Chachia, the whole story was raised about his son. He didn't get alimony, but according to all of these current states, he's still not going to get alimony. In this case, I must also conclude one thing that is legally strange to me, the President of the Supreme Commander's decision to cancel that part of the Retirement Decision, because as far as I've seen from the media, and we in the Club have made little comment about it, says that the retirement is being annulled because of the fact that no criteria have been made. And if these, what, does that mean now that the president and all the other pensions he's brought for, say, General Stipetic's secretary, General Stipetic's assistant and a series of other people will he do the same? So we're coming into a lot of weird legal situations, I'm saying it happens, human beings are wrong. The prime minister has made a fine confession, but now means purely legal and constructively alerting this part to try to develop this article on 15th, and in our view it would be most appropriate for the law to be in this way to be resolved by an official who is wronged in the conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3749	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3750	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, only four important notes. It is clear to us why the amendments to this Act should be made, and I believe or want to believe that Croatia will never be in a situation that, because of three persons or three cases, we have to intervene in a state regulation in order to sanction something that should not have happened. However, since the draft law is also an emergency procedure, and in order to regulate this area, allow for three concrete proposals that have been made through amendments. First, Article 1 of the amendment and supplementation, or Article 15b, simply believes that in the first part of the sentence behind the word “punishment” there is a point to be put in place, and everything else is to be deleted because I smartly believe that no state official who has been resolved for the purpose of committing any crime has the right to receive any benefits. The conditions for resolution are subject to the second regulation. This regulation regulates the situation when it exercises the right to certain privileges. If a public official commits a criminal offence and the person who has chosen or appointed him decides to resolve it, then any criminal offence must be caused by the loss of those rights provided for by the law. Whether it's a crime of theft, embezzlement, evasion, human trafficking across borders, prostitution, drug trafficking or anything else. We can't and can't accept the situation for a state official to be relieved of his duties for a felony, but for certain benefits set out in the law to remain. I think that would be a really absurd situation. So if he's already been resolved for a felony, we can't just leave part of the reason, just leave part of the crime in the law to make that right come true. And the easiest thing to do is really go with the conviction of any criminal act losing that benefit. Secondly, the Law provides for retroactive application. We have made an amendment to delete Article 2 of the proposal. Because we believe that one clumsy thing and the situation we've been in must not be repaired or brought into the legal frameworks by a new injustice. Namely, to abolish the law by retroactive application of certain rights that existed at some point, and which, whose violation was not sanctioned, were in this case alone, because of these three people we consider both anti-constitutional and inadmissible. No matter how sad the fact is, that the exercise of their right would go on the burden of taxpayers and how personally I don't think they have the right to achieve these benefits and benefits. I really don't think they have the right to do that. I don't think it's a good idea that we do it retroactively in that case, because tomorrow might be another example or situation, the day after the third, and we'll be trapped in a certain way, and yesterday some good or parliamentary practice was often mentioned, so we're going to do a little retroactively to change or subtract certain rights that existed at some point. And I think there's a way to solve this problem. That the law does not have retroactive application and that three former state officials who have been relieved do not exercise that right. In fact, I believe that it is possible to simply achieve those who spoke to them, who asked them or persuaded them to accept the duties, which they agreed to withdraw, the same agreement with them, that they would disown these benefits and rights for a day, two or three duties they were on. I think it would actually be an extremely human big step in this way to solve this problem, not by retroactive application. And I really call on them, and I really call on them to deny themselves the use of the benefits they were given at the moment of the law, because in this way they will give the message in the cleanest way and for the future to all those who could come into such a problem. And finally, if I counted correctly so far there have been nine amendments and additions to this law, this is 10. In the meantime, no consolidated text of the law has been published once. And you know when you have 10 or 9 additions, changes to the law, to read its contents, if you're not master of the masters of the job alone, that it's almost impossible. That is why we are also proposing an amendment to publish the consolidated text in the course of 15 days after its adoption. and I thought in the beginning that the Legislative Committee directly applied the provision of Articles 59, 2nd, 3, 4, 5th, 6th, and that it does so automatically, but obviously it does not. And it would be really good if, for all the lawyers whose job is to respect the law and citizens, we allow all the people who follow the legislation to follow that system, and we will have a large number of changes in the law this year, that after every third change we really publish the consolidated texts of the law. In favour of respect, for the benefit of the knowledge of the law by the citizens of Croatia and by those who have to implement them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3751	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect alleged, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3752	Thank you, Mr. President. It is not true what Mr. MP said would be a violation of constitutionality and legality if the bill, the bill, was passed, and it allowed the reverse effect of this provision of the basic law that is now being amended. It also points to the provision of the Constitution, which states that, for particularly justified reasons, certain provisions of the law may have a return to action. And which are particularly justified reasons, I think it is one of the biggest reasons that is ultimately given and in an explanation, it is precisely this sense of justice and justice, which exactly what happened or could happen is this very personal principle. Because it is these opportunities and privileges that are given, so when they are violated by such an act, that is to say, the injustice that is caused is precisely the meaning of the changes that are made by law, the bill wants to achieve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3753	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Comrade Lesar, you will at the end, take five minutes to report for what you wanted. Because those aren't your plates, you already know. There wouldn't have been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, because there wasn't, and you wanted to give an obvious explanation, which is why you've made a correction to the incorrect assumption, and then a replica. Take those at the end of the club name, so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3754	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll concentrate actually on the text that was proposed here, because the law is really short has these few articles. The current regulation and the current regulation of Article 15 of the current law, we do see that it is not good and it allows for the one who has the duty, it gives him the right to pay full wages of six months and a further 50%, and the compensation for a further period of 6 months, and still has a pension rule, if it needs to be paid for another year that it can mean a great deal more than that year. Indeed, here life has shown that there can be a great disproportionateity in practice for someone acting in a duty and for one or a few days to be able to achieve that right. and that is why I see this law exclusively in the light that these provisions want to be regulated, that means that these articles are introduced, that a condition is introduced when this article is applied, and that condition actually makes up a certain time-limit during which duty must be exercised. And here I think that both the promoter and the promoter hit the other well, the only thing that the government is proposing is what the HDZ Club agrees with, that the deadline should be a year, and the SDP Club proposes 6 months. In its proposal, the Government also proposes to standardise certain situations where exclusions arise from the application of this Article 15, as set out in Articles 15a. and 15b. It is possible and true, I think, in fact, that the Legislative Committee has also made certain remarks of a nomotechnical nature and I think there is enough time to vote on this law, that amendments are not technically improving this text, because there is certainly no point in the bill of law and judgment, although it is the term of judgment. So some of these things are certainly to be regulated. We advocate precisely for these high values that this law seeks to protect. We agree that it should have a return effect, meaning from 1 January 2004. And since the law is short, I won't have a long explanation. We will support the government's proposal because we believe that the situation in the way in which the current Article 15 and the current law regulates it is wrong. And that's why we're proposing, and we're going to support this proposal from the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3755	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3756	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. As already here, I don't know which way, but I'm going to have a look on the agenda of more of these situations because we're already preparing the government, and we're also going to go with a few new legislative proposals. So, I think the government will hear and then prepare for further proposals to follow our legal proposals. In that it would not even be a bad thing to say that it does not seem to worsen the basic or original proposals. And here, indeed at first glance, it may seem that the Government sees even more detailedly going into the process of those additions, i.e. the changes proposed by the SDP Club. However, in Article 15. The Government’s proposal and Article 15b, if applied to a specific case, I will not even mention it now, then there could be no sanctioning at all. So, what does that mean? That the government really or does not have a desire to be honest, or has no ability and ability to solve a specific problem, but really because it wants people to like it. And I can say it's been pretty good for her so far and it's been going well. After the victorious walk of the ruling, however, this unfavorable case took down the halo. And now that that's what he wants to save himself and fix what seems to be saving the sun. But that it is honesty and desire to resolve it, it is truly human, but it is not necessary to endure mistakes. However, this government proposal does not want to achieve anything. Why? A good part of it was spoken by counterpart Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club when he said that the right set out in that article on the 15th floor would not belong to that official who did not specify the facts he knew or had to be known and which he could assume would be an objective obstacle to his appointment. So, first of all, there are no objective criteria for appointments. Well, then, no one can fall for this. What are these subjective, after all, facts that this state official must present to a potential reflector somewhere? Are these facts from someone's personal intimacy, private life, sexual commitment? What's that? So there's not a word about it. So, practically when you can all fall under one norm this is pure... Norm, he can't fall for anything. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, then, not just any event that's happened or possibly that might happen. Regulation (EU) No 515/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union (OJ L 348, 30.12.2014, p. 1). It is so restrictive that it is not applicable at all to these situations which we are talking about or which we want to sanction or prevent from happening. In fact, it is said that this right will not be exercised by an official who is legally convicted of criminal acts of value protected by international law, values protected by international law are all war crimes. Genocide. Is it even possible that this could happen? So it's an absurd situation. Then against the freedoms and rights of man and citizen also all serious crimes for which they are prevented by the saying of a high sentence, and therefore, where it is impossible to pass a conditional sentence at all. Well, there aren't any of those crimes from the head against marriage, family and the protection of youth. It's against sex monsters, against sexual freedom, there's no such thing. And the only thing that would be fair and fair is that everything covered by criminal law does particularly dangerous things. Because it's an important feature. 'Cause if it weren't for those not dangerous behaviors, you wouldn't even fall under criminal law. Therefore, if a cleanliness of elimentary was indeed to be achieved, it had to be prevented from applying in any case to any one who had been convicted by law, for any crime. Well, a private employer won't accept someone who's justly convicted and doesn't even ask him for what crime. But here, for the admission to the state service, to be a state official it seems to be no obstacle unless these values are protected by international law, or therefore heavy criminal acts, where at all, where that man would be sentenced to heavy imprisonment, to prison, and he could not be present to act as a civil servant. Therefore, it is not about anything but about one trap. Where I say, he doesn't want to solve and respond in the right way, to situations like that. That's why I think it's much better, much more quality this proposal that took place from the SDP Club. I especially want to point out, this government proposal is not about me saying, just the speed, it was here and well-intentioned to be about that speed, because it's even more elaborate this textual, so it seems, at first glance, that it's a more mini-cutting work than it came out of the SDP Club. But it's really not about real intention. And I don't think the future should be if the government really feels as secure as it does in public and in fact hides one of its own insecurity, uncertainty in its own strength, in its own possibilities. And it would reflect political maturity, political wisdom, and a government that is sure of itself to support a proposal that comes... Especially when it's especially, especially when it's far, far better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We wouldn't mind if this, if our proposal was just an incentive, so that the government took a further step, even sharpened the situation, taxed them. However, this legislative proposal does not just say that what has been proposed by the SDP is getting worse but is not being resolved or can be solved. Because I'm saying, with both norms too broadly set up, here too narrowly so that those events that happened wouldn't be possible to sanction at all, let alone one that could possibly happen. So I think we should support it, so let the government think hard about it in this sense, too, if it wants to be really sharp in this regard, that in Article 15b. to include all criminal acts, therefore, for those who have been convicted by power. Because it is essential because such officials are expected not only not to be prosecuted, or convicted, but much, much more. Or simply to accept and to conform to the SDP proposal, which would be far wiser and would save its strength to prepare to respond to those laws that will soon come from the SDP Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3757	Thank you very much. On behalf of Klub HDFor in the final debate of five minutes, Vice-President Mr Luka Bebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3758	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will turn around and start with this final appeal by Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic Marinović, who pleads that when it is a quality law or a proposal from the opposition it should be accepted. And it should be accepted. When a quality is well-educated, no matter who suggested it. Such examples so far have not been seen for these four years but this does not mean that we should start, and the world's journey begins with the first step, so such practice in the Croatian Parliament should begin. In doing so, I recall a proposal from Pirpina, who was called by Saboar, who was rejected. TO make the same proposal appear a few days later from the ranks of representatives of the ruling coalition of the present. That doesn't mean that's how we do things. I agree in principle with Mrs Anticevic Marinovic's proposal, it should begin. But it should start with moderations in terms of moderation in the expression of critical observations. With the use of less difficult qualifications and words, because these same arguments expressed on a mild admission and so to speak, a more moderate way better comes to the ears of those who therefore, then accept and thus support. But we've been witnessing inmoderation in qualifications all day, using words that can't and don't mean what they're verbally pleading for. Here's an example of how this government is learning. He's learning from his mistakes. So he's correcting them. He's correcting them, so although I can believe that those who decided on that fault they didn't know about certain things, that's why we're here together today. So learning needs to accept good arguments. But here we looked at the last call to the Parliament and heard 20 or 30 times our esteemed representative, Ivo Lonachar, who called the government and warned that the assistant minister in one ministry didn't matter what his name was, was convicted. It's like he didn't say that. This was rejected in such a hard-core way I would say almost blatantly ignoring and almost despised by Mr. Lonchar's allegations. This is a bad example, as the man welcomed the end of the mandaat and that no one responded and for wonderful wonders nor were the media inclined to write about it. Unlike these three cases we've had these days. So the media didn't care if someone was convicted, so he's a minister's assistant, but if someone's being tried, then that's how the media did it. What I'm saying is, I mean, you need to be moderate, get down to the ground, look at your political positions, the ability to make decisions, the number of votes, the arguments and the like. All of this should be taken into account and in particular the moderation in the statement of criticism that is desirable and which any smart and responsible government respects. We hope that after today, where it is not particularly shown, on the contrary, it will go in this House differently, more acceptable, more moderately, not using extreme qualifications and... With a desire to thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3759	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ruža Tomic is correcting the indemnity quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3760	Mr. President, the correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Bebic said they would have passed the law if there were no better law than theirs. I think it has been proven that since the Croatian party the law on the draft law on the process of handing over authorities was better. You're here to prove yourself in democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3761	And dear Secretary of State Antun Palaric here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3762	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'm glad the multi-page initiative started to settle this issue. And this government is ready when it's wrong to admit a mistake and I think it's her size. However, we did not do the law for one or two cases but wanted to introduce new principles regarding the exercise of the rights of officials. We could not accept the SDP's legal proposal, for the simple reason that it did not cover all the options that could occur when a resolution was appointed. If the law were to be adopted as proposed, someone today could become a mass murderer but spent seven eight months on duty and exercise the right for a year. We think that this law of ours is precise enough for those who want to read it as such, that it foresees situations that can happen, that it is very stricter than it is to exercise the rights of the workers to the severance than it is to exercise the rights of the shipping officers and to the right to be made available. THAT we have significantly narrowed down this legal proposal to the very unpopular right that our own, which our citizens hold as one privilege. And so we suggest that this law be adopted as the Government has proposed. We'll talk about the amendments when there's a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3763	I thank the Secretary of State, Palaric. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, first reading, P.Z. Number 23. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials proposed by the SDP Representatives Club for the reasons set out in the reports of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall not be adopted. Who's in favor of the proposal for this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 77 votes in favour of, 7 against, 17 against and 7 abstentions, the proposed text has reached its conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3822	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament before you is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights. It is a Memorandum signed in 1998 and during all these years it has been discussed and has not been put on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament due to the harmonisation of different legal rules in the state. This Memorandum includes intellectual property rights which are otherwise governed by the "trip" agreement, which is a prerequisite for full membership in the WTO, so the World Trade Organisation and the text of the Memorandum is the same as all the member states of the European Union accepted. So it is one obligation for the Croatian state to follow our wishes for European integration to accept this agreement that allows for much better trade relations with both the United States and within the European countries. Some of the specifics that I am about to say here may also be difficult for the Croatian economy at first sight, but I must immediately say that this agreement, which should be adopted here under this law, will only take effect once the legislation of all the countries of the signatories of this agreement is brought into force. We therefore have time in the next few weeks or months under such an agreement to change our laws and to make possible some adverse economic consequences of such a law. So this law sets out several important strategic specifics. One pipe line patent protection is therefore the recognition of patent protection over pharmaceutical and agrochemical products that are assumed in their legal system under the Law on Industrial Property of the former SFRY by 1 January 2000. This law also applies retrogradely. However, such a patent in the Republic of Croatia is recognised only for the remainder of its duration and not for new products. The second definition of exclusion given in Article 8 of this Memorandum determines the inability to register in the Republic of Croatia a generic product, pharmaceutical product or agrochemical product within a certain period from the date of registration of the original product. Such exclusion would take five years, and would only apply to those original pharmaceutical agrochemical products that are registered after the entry into force of this Memorandum. So we have time to comply with his regulations. I note again that this institute exists in all Member States of the European Union, so-called ‘European Union’. Council guidelines 65 of the European Union and amended guidelines 87 of the European Union and in the European Union have different deadlines of around six, sometime ten years. What is still regulated by this Memorandum is copyright protection, protection of rights to different products, protection of computer programs, protection of rights to audio recording, protection of encrypted signal transmissions. So we have a whole set of legal standards that we need to comply with international regulations. What is positive here is that Croatia would thus satisfy the requirements of the international community and have the ability to comply with its requirements under such new rules and that Croatia would otherwise remain on the list of those countries that did not accept such a memorandum, which would of course be unfavourable for foreign investors, foreign countries, in this case primarily the United States. So here's our proposal, after so many years, to accept this Memorandum and to go into the making of those legal regulations that will therefore ease this action, but within the frameworks of the signed Memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3823	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. Dr. Crescent. Petar Selem president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3824	Mr. President, fellow MPs and MPs. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed in the follow-up to its 2nd session on 26 February 2004, the proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. The Committee members have established that the issue relates to the part-round committee since it is referred to in Article 23(2). The Law establishing and delirious the ministries and state administrations, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports responsible for the affairs of the Institute of Intellectual Property, Standardisation and Measurement, and in particular for the reasons of Article 85. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which determines that the work of this committee are issues of international, scientific and technical cooperation. This committee, however, holds that it is P.Z. No. 22 For discussion and decision-making at the level of the Croatian Parliament, the possible and crucial views and other committees such as the Committee on Information, Information and Media, then the Committee on European Integration and finally, given the expected economic effects of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. In a separate opinion, members of the committee who have declared themselves against the confirmation of the Memorandum, Dr.sc. Vesna Pusić, Marija Lugarić dipl. teacher and dr.sc. Antun Vujic pointed out that the debate on the agenda did not provide sufficient evidence that the adoption of this law would not cause serious harm to some Croatian economic operators, and in particular that the unwarranted and insufficient explanation of the applicant's claim that not adopting this law would lead to the abolition of preferential status for Croatian products. They also consider the proposal to be partial in any case since it does not comply with the adoption of the relevant amendments to the patent law and the Drug and Medical Products Act. Following a debate involving committee members, the proposing representatives and other invited participants were given the following conclusion by a majority of the votes. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights in the form proposed by the promoters. The Committee is of the opinion that, as soon as possible, it is also necessary to bring about those amendments and additions in the patent law and in the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices which will normally and realistically bring the relevant issues in this area into line with the possible damages that could be caused by some of the Croatian economic operators. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3825	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs want to submit an oral report to the other two committees that held the hearing? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3826	Honored Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. With a call for this session of the Croatian Parliament, we have adopted a draft agenda in which, in addition to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, proposals for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products and the Law on the Completion of the Patent Act have been included. In the final draft agenda, which was yesterday and adopted, only the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights, while the remaining two laws were left out. However, it cannot be talked about the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Memorandums of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights without touching these other two draft laws that are off the agenda, since this first draft law is shown as a preliminary issue for the two left out drafts of the law. A memorandum of understanding between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the United States government on the protection of intellectual property rights was signed on 26 May 98. As the confirmation comes only now for nearly 6 years after the signing, the question arises why is that. The answer to this question is simple and it is that the confirmation of this memorandum into Croatian legislation is being introduced by newspapers that regulate a very sensitive area of retroactive patent recognition, the introduction of pipe line patent protection institute and the institute given exclusion. Therefore, if the Croatian Parliament adopts the Memorandum Confirmation Act and requires a two-thirds majority of MPs, it will also have to adopt the Law on the Completion of patent laws, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, which requires an ordinary majority. It should be said that exclusion patents represent two different areas since exclusion is given the right of sui generis which is legally regulated in the United States and in the countries of the European Union by the rules of registration of medicinal products and this right does not fall within the right of intellectual property which includes patents of trade marks, i.e. Marks, models, i.e. copyright and related rights. That same patent institute. It has nothing to do with inventions. Intellectual property offices do not deal with issues related to the given exclusion of such issues are dealt with by the medicines agency. Therefore, before we make an easy decision to confirm the Memorandum, the same should be examined in detail and a study will assess the effects of the application of those institutes to the health and economic system in the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly clear that the Member States of the European Union have included the exclusion given in their legislation and that they will have to do so sooner or later if they wish to be a member of the European Union but none of the countries entering the European Union in this year have introduced into their legislation the provision to apply these novelties on the eighth day of their publication in the official vote of the State, but, by applying the memorandum and those institutes, they have changed until the moment of entry into the European Union. In this way, the economy of each of these countries is given an opportunity to adapt to the emerging situation. In our case, however, the proposals for the laws that I had previously stated were not exaggerated. The introduction of a pipe line patent protection institute introduces the possibility of retroactive recognition of patents which enables retroactive product protection, while the introduction of an institute-based exclusion-based institute introduces the possibility of preventing competition from entering the market of any country that accepts the institute, and the elimination of potential domestic competition, as it is not possible for many medicinal products produced by the domestic pharmaceutical industry to obtain a marketing authorisation for a shortened procedure based on studies of any equivalence during the period marked as a given exclusion, which is in the Croatian case for 6 years. In other words, this means that the Institute prohibits the registration of a generic medicine in a shortened procedure. Since the preparation of complete documentation by the second, third and third applicants for the acceptance of patents and subsequently placing the product on the market is completely unrealistic in such a short period of time, in that period, regardless of the patent situation on the market, it may only be the original product. Simplifiedly, the introduction of the institute means a 6-year exclusion of any competition and domestically from the Croatian market, and given exclusion extends the monopoly of the original product on the market and after the expiry of patent protection and excludes cheaper generic competition. It is not clear that the prices of generic drugs are lower than the product of the original producer and that it is not necessary for generic medicinal products to conduct extremely expensive clinical trials, and besides, there is no monopoly on the market that creates competition, and the result is ultimately a cheaper medicine and a cheaper health care system. Due to everything said, the HSS MPs' club will not support the proposed law and will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3827	I'd like to thank my representative, Haramia. Mr. Tonino Picula's representative for the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3828	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Vice President of the Government. Let me begin by saying that the proposed ratification of the Understanding Agreement between the United States and Croatia on the protection of intellectual property has long caused dilemmas in the Croatian public. As we heard from one of the introductions, Mr. Selem and the dilemmas could be found in the work of the Assembly Committees. Let me put out here a point of view why the SDP Club suggests some procedural additions so that we can really see what this memo actually means. Indeed, it was signed in 1998 but in a completely different political, international legal and economic environment. In 98, the Republic of Croatia was not a member of the World Trade Organisation and was completely outside of the Eurointegration process, which likely affected the quality of its negotiating position before signing this Agreement. Of course, there have been plenty of opportunities over the past few years for this Memorandum to be ratified in the second session of the Croatian Parliament, however, the previous government has not done so, although throughout bilateral talks with the United States, the US side has explicitly insisted that the agreement be ratified. Why didn't we do it? First of all, we estimated that the direct application of this Memorandum is indeed causing major earthquakes on the Croatian pharmaceutical market, and that was one of the reasons why we advocated in a constant dialogue with the United States to delay the ratification of the agreement. The second reason was also the pressure of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. He was even stronger at times than it was the pressure of the United States. That is why I expected when the government decided to send this document to Parliament for ratification at the very beginning of its mandate, I expected in the documents an assessment, a simulation of the financial effects of the application of the Memorandum to the pharmaceutical industry in Croatia. I don't think that without that data we can really speak in the right way about the effects of ratification. In addition, the question arises as to why an emergency procedure does not exist even if it does not have any subsequent amended legal regulations, which is one of the obligations. And let me just quote Article 4 of the Law that the Government sent to the procedure in the Assembly, it's about the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products and the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of patent laws, but they're withdrawn. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The drug law literally states that the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights is prescribed that, before confirming the memorandum, the Contracting Party will comply with all the regulations necessary to fully comply with the obligations of the Memorandum. These two laws that are necessary for an amendment to access ratification have been withdrawn from parliamentary ratification. Thus, the fact itself speaks of the disability of this procedure. The second reason is, of course, a simulation of the financial effects and should probably consider appropriate mechanisms for the protection of the domestic pharmaceutical industry after possible ratification of this Agreement. After all, I'd just like to face some of the most important arguments about the need to delay the ratification of the memo by emergency procedure. It is an analysis that comes from prominent representatives of the pharmaceutical industry in Croatia, which says something about the consequences of the application of the memorandum. It's exactly as he said in the introduction of the Deputy Prime Minister. With this memorandum, Croatia has made commitments to ensure the protection of intellectual property rights in full compliance with the protection and recognition and recognition of the Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, etc. Trips. However, in addition to these obligations, Croatia has committed itself to introducing in its legal system some institutes that would exceed the standards of the defined “trips” which would, primarily, allow legal entities from the United States and, indirectly, all other WTO members to have a degree of protection of intellectual property much higher than the international standards established “trips”. More specifically, Article 8 and paragraphs 5 and 6 of the memo Croatia has committed to introducing a market exclusion institute “Date exclusion” which, according to its content, constitutes a ban on the registration of a generic medicinal product in a shortened procedure during a certain period of time from the date of registration of the original product. This institute actually ensures the owner of the original product that during a certain period he has the exclusive right to place on the market a medicinal product with a particular active substance completely independent of the patent protection of that medicinal product, thus creating some form of exclusive rights other than patents and completely unknown in the system of intellectual property rights. The result is the inability to register a generic product during the duration of market exclusion, which would extend the monopoly of the expensive original product on the Croatian market. In view of the fact that “Date exclusion” prevents the reduced registration of generics, the purpose of this institute is to protect the interests of the manufacturer who registered the product by carrying out a much more expensive and complicated procedure just to prevent the rapid exit of generic medicinal products on the market and thus to allow market exclusion in the original product over time. The result is expensive medicines, which also means a more expensive system of health care. Namely, the price of generic drugs is significantly lower than the price of the original manufacturer's product. Moreover, the market for generic drugs creates competition between the original and generic medicinal product, and therefore the basic legal market mechanisms are beginning to operate so that the end-user gets tested and verified medicines at significantly lower prices. During the year following the expiry of the patents, the price of this medicinal product is reduced by approximately 20% to 30%, depending on the country, representing significant savings to health funds or institutions in approximately the same percentage. It is also estimated that the extension of market exclusion for a leading drug for only one year in only one Member State of the European Union generates a cost of EUR 100 million for the country's health care. It was these health care savings that led some countries, such as Poland and Hungary, to postpone the introduction of the “Date exclusion” institute until the moment of full admission into the European Union. Article 6(2) of the Memorandum provides for the introduction of an institute known as the retroactive effect of the patent “Payplan patent protection” or a patent protection award for a pharmaceutical or agrochemical product unless such protection has been made available in accordance with the legal order of Croatia prior to the entry into force of the Memorandum. The institute would allow patent protection to pharmaceutical products that did not have protection of the substance in Croatia but only processes for which patent applications in Croatia have never been submitted and have not yet been placed on the Croatian market. The introduction of the Payplan Pathet Protection Institute in Croatia would introduce a large dose of legal uncertainty in the words of the profession because at this point it is impossible to determine which products such protection would apply to or how long it would take the exclusive benefit of such a provision. It would certainly contribute to the American pharmaceutical industry, which would allow patent protection for products that no longer meet the criteria of patentity anywhere in the world. I hope that the day of the negotiations on the full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union is not far away and that order of moves and harmonisation of regulations with the legal heritage of the European Union should be considered. It would be so valuable to look at the practice of the European Union which, in particular, legislation that regulates this matter. Indeed, the European Union knows these laws. However, it is predicted that competent authorities cannot, cannot assess generic products over a period of not less than 6 years. Even in the case of highly technologically developed products and the centralised process, the deadline is 10 years. Furthermore, Member States may extend the period to 10 years for all medical products placed on their territory where they consider this to be necessary in the interests of protection and public health. Member States shall be free not to apply that period of 6 years after the expiry of the patent protecting the original medicinal product. In any event, it can be seen that these issues are regulated at European Union level, strictly and with long deadlines foreseen. As regards Croatia, the provisions of Article 69 shall apply. The Stabilisation and Association Agreements Croatia has indeed committed itself to gradually harmonising its legislation with the acquis of the Community relating to the internal market and other trade-related areas. Croatia is obliged to take the necessary measures to ensure, no later than 3 years after the entry into force of the Agreement or of the Interim Agreement, that on 1 March of the following year, the level of protection of industrial, intellectual and commercial property which is similar to the protection that exists in the community, including the effective means of its implementation. From all this, the Republic of Croatia is yet to comply with the relevant regulations with “Acqui” from this area in due time. However, the harmonisation of legislation must be carried out gradually so that the harmonisation of legislation in the field of medicinal products and medicinal products with the said “Acqui” was not foreseen by the National Programme for 2003. The practice applied in the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia says that Slovenia has requested and received a transitional period of 5 years from the date of entry into full membership as part of the accession negotiations with the European Union in respect of the free movement of goods and for the application of “Acqui” relating to pharmaceutical products for human use. And at the very end, let me say that I am also aware as a former foreign minister, the pressures that come from the United States, who are interested in ratifying this memorandum, because it is estimated by American sources that unless this happens, the American pharmaceutical industry would lose between $30 million and $35 million per year to Croatia. Which may not be a great deal of money for one America, but obviously for Croatia if a ratification is carried out without the intended simulations, it certainly means big money. Because according to the data that I have available, approximately 98% of Croatia's production refers to generic drugs, whose production and placement after ratification of this memo would be significantly compromised. You should also think about jobs, because somewhere in Pliva right now there are about 4,000 employees. But Pliva is not the only one, although the largest producer of medicines and pharmaceuticals in Croatia, there is also Belupo with its 900 employees, and surely we have to take care of some smaller producers. and finally, allow me to propose a delay in the ratification itself until the completion of this bill, to simulate the consequences of its application and to refer to the parliamentary procedure of the amended accompanying legal infrastructure as part of the obligations that go with this ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3829	Thank you very much, Mr. Piculi. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonči Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3830	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. This memorandum is one really serious step, and we believe that the Parliament had to have present and other members of the government here, to which this memorandum applies, given that in many ways it is intruding into the economy and economic growth of the Republic of Croatia. From the point of view of its effects, unless the necessary measures are taken, this will be one of the biggest economic failures of the Croatian government. And truly amazing that the failure made in signing this agreement, as my predecessor said in completely other political circumstances, is now persistently continuing. Not taking into account all the negative consequences of the signing and ratification of such an agreement. This agreement, by the way, was the subject of a dispute between the United States and the European Union, but let's face it, it is far easier to fight with such a memorandum under the umbrella of the European Union than when a man enters that system beyond it. Croatia, however, is seeking the European Union. We want to join the European Union, we want to adapt to the regulation of the European Union, and it is truly amazing that in that time, at the same time, we are insisting on having a bilateral relationship with the United States and doing so by post-poo. I would remind here of the fact that the Poles have also ratified such a memorandum, but with the entry into the European Union only, so that they have a better umbrella to protect them in possible disputes with the United States that will definitely come from strict implementation of such an agreement. What is particularly offensive for us at the HSP Club is this part on page 4, which is not only part of the note, but is written by the Government, which is a kind of threat to the Croatian Parliament, is terrible with trade sanctions if the Parliament accidentally refuses ratification. Well, I'll pray nicely. What happened to Croatia from 98th to today, until the memorandum was ratified? Absolutely nothing. Especially nothing good on the U.S. side. But that's why my team is weirder when it's just taken as an argument that it has to access ratification at its own speed. This agreement is therefore on the trail of all those agreements of all those international agreements, memorandas, conventions and so on, which the governments of these former governments had previously signed, and afterwards appeared in the Croatian Assembly with an exception, so my people must ratify it, it is Croatia's reputation. Such an argument does not stand, because it is the Parliament that determines that these are national interests, not the Croatian government at its discretion. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, remains in effect for 10 years. And only after a ten-year period can we possibly break it, which will be the consequences of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, better not even think about it. This is a direct blow to Pliva, as so far Pliva could be used with minimal changes in the individual medicine and sold in third countries. However, strict application of such an agreement will make it absolutely impossible. Therefore, it is impossible to perfect the product and sell this advanced product under the Croatian product company in third countries. So there is no reason for this to harm Croatia. and that is why we hold that there is no reason to go beyond the standards of the European Union and the countries of transition. What's most interesting is that there's really no reason to just be damaged by the United States. Be careful, all of Croatia's scientific and professional production may be one step forward of all the health achievements of the United States, I really don't see how we're going to do them much harm if we don't accept such an agreement? So I really have no reason to support this memo, seeing what the damage to the Republic of Croatia is. Unless it's something really terrible, which is that this government is actually working to protect Croatian economic interests, but American economic interests. But then we are already in one truly delicate situation, which may require a special parliamentary debate. Therefore, this memorandum does not even have a transitional deadline for Croatia within which it would adapt to the situation, does not appear in our agenda or accompanying documents that would facilitate the state of the domestic pharmaceutical industry and introduce even a fictitiously such transitional deadline. No, it simply immediately goes into the core of the problem and the real economic problems for the Croatian industry are emerging immediately, especially for the drug industry. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, HSP cannot agree to ratify this memo. And we find it strange, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Minister, to insist that the ratification be carried out by emergency procedure. In such serious memos, there is no reason not to approach it in two readings, or that the Parliament even refuses to ratify such a document. We are ladies and gentlemen a home that protects Croatian interests. And that's primarily what we have to take care of when we're discussing documents like this. And they're definitely broken with a memo like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3831	Thank you very much for representing Tadic. A government official, Vice President Andrija Hebrang, came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3832	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Everything said here is true. But there's one big "but." Of course, this government did not bring this proposal before you overnight, but we did really wake up days and nights over this text, and we found that there was one exit that was really in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We are here between international obligations and possible damage to the domestic economy, primarily to our pharmaceutical producers. Something that made us hurry is, however, one decision that was made in the meantime, which is that the United States government on 1 May 2003 included the Republic of Croatia on a separate watchlist, a special list of observations, therefore, countries that are under special observation because of this, there are 36 countries on the list because they are considered insufficient to protect intellectual property. So, we were put on that list less than a year ago. And that made us think about whether there was one move that would benefit the Croatian state in its approach to European integration. At this point, it would be very important that we do it because it would be one positive sign without hurting the pharmaceutical industry at the same time. And we immediately entered into negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry, and in cooperation with it, we made draft laws. But then we got an interpretation of international legal experts that allowed us to adopt this law without taking effect immediately, rather than as stated in Article 19(2) of that Memorandum. Articles of this Treaty, therefore, Article 19(2), says as follows: "Articles of this Treaty will enter into force...", not on the date of adoption but on the day of receipt of the notification by diplomatic means, by which the parties shall inform each other of the entry into force of all the rules necessary for the full implementation of the obligations of this Treaty.". Therefore, the Memorandum Act shall enter into force but the text of the Memorandum shall not enter into force. So we got on the one hand for the Croatian state a positive sign and a stand-up towards international integration and on the other hand we provided ourselves with the space needed to pass positive laws that will mitigate the negative economic impact. Because the article 19, which I quoted, in the second sentence, states that the whole text of the contract only takes effect when the international diplomatic route and the other party informs that they have laid down all the rules that result from this. So let me get this straight. We are in intensive negotiations both with Plivo and with Belup and other manufacturers and we are making these legal regulations. Why didn't we just put them in parallel with this law? Because only the Agency for Medicinal Products has functioned only in Croatia, it has not actually stepped on its feet yet because it is a new date. Because they are being adopted in the European Union, many regulations in the field of medicines have been introduced to the European Union, and we have estimated that Article 19 gives us actually a beautiful period of time, a beautiful period of time in which we can more thoroughly amend our existing laws on medicines, the patent law and, if necessary, in other economic laws. So to conclude. The law enters into force and gives a sign of goodwill to the international community but the text of the agreement does not enter into force until the parties inform each other that they have adopted all the necessary regulations in this text. So I think that one such compromise can also give us the benefit of joining international integration and also leave you enough space to make all of those rules that were here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. Mr. Joseph Leco's esteemed representative. He's gone. He's losing his right. Representative Stazic. He's also losing his right. Mr. Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3834	Mr. President, fellow MPs. The fact that here are the socialists, lawyers, polythologists, and here I am now with the task of discussing generic drugs, and I don't know as clearly as it says that it's certainly not someone's newfound knowledge, but that it's obvious that we're being trained by those people who are from the pharmaceutical profession and who are very afraid of what's going to happen when it comes to ratification. So I'm not going to get into those terms that he understands a little bit, I have to admit, but I'm going to try a few short sentences, maybe a little legal views. First of all, you'd notice that this law actually has hidden retroactivity. The ratification law itself is not retroactive but its consequences are retroactive because what is being ratified is being introduced into our legal system retroactiveness so I would conclude that the processing of this law is actually not appropriate to that fact. Second, this retroactivity itself introduces certain economic problems that I must admit I cannot... But they're obviously not, they're not insignificant, and I think the vice president of Mr. Hebrang confirmed it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I think it's quite interesting thesis that we actually have time. If we have time maybe it's really a matter of why an emergency procedure and whether or not things could have been quantified, rationalized, whether the fear behind these discussions is justified or not justified. It's also interesting that this contract, this memorandum itself, I have to say that I would absolutely support it without any reservation for a reason because I really think that intellectual protection of intellectual property is something that every civilised state must have. And I think that I will remind the Republic of Croatia of the copyright and related rights not so long ago, with the consent of practically all MPs and then the opposition and then the ruling position adopted a law that greatly strengthens the protection of copyright and sets the Republic of Croatia among those countries that are adequately protected. I would even point out, and this is mentioned in the memo and that Croatia is here in some aspects in front of the United States. Namely, the United States has not ratified the Roman Convention, and that is their obligation to this Memorandum, and I will see if we have any pressure mechanisms to convince them to do so in accordance with the commitments they have made. I have to admit, I doubt that, but good. So in principle, I would also have no objection to any possible protection of industrial ownership, patents, stamps being established pro futuro. Because it doesn't affect bankruptcy positions. It shall not affect the rights which the entity has acquired on the economic scene in legal business. And I would certainly be opposed to continuing the practice of a kind of piracy that I think the Republic of Croatia would by no means legitimise even if it cost something. For me, the biggest problem is retroactiveness and I also have a problem with some provisions that, I might be rough on the mole, and there's some colonial nature of this memo because when we combine the solutions that other countries have made to me, one of the few that the duration of patent protection is seen by adapting not under our rights but by the law of the United States. And the same is true in terms of extension here we are completely unique to the information that I have that we do not take the time of registration for the duration of patent protection. This is something I say leaves me little bitter taste in my mouth regarding Croatia's position in the whole story. Well, that's what I see and how some kind of problem, I'd even say the integrity of this Agreement. I'm not going to go into these details, but that's where the previous speakers mentioned that a memorandum was actually envisaged and that a different procedure to be adopted first, so that then going to ratification might not be the most important thing I personally wouldn't insist on. But I would, of course, join those who have appealed to be able to take the ball to see what the effects are and, without doubting Croatia's obligations to ensure the highest standards and copyrighted protection and pathetic legal protection, consider this retroactive component. I know what's signed it is take it or leave it. So there's not much room. But that's why maybe you should see some analysis and see if there's anything you can do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3835	I'd like to thank the representative. The word has a Mr. Representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3836	Mr. Chairman, Vice President. I'd draw attention to two things. We're talking first of all about the protection of the domestic pharmaceutical industry. And I think we should talk about that is a painful wound and a Croatian procuring entity and public spending, and that's the cost of medicine, it's health care. It is evident that the huge negative impact of the application of this international memorandum will have on the cost of medicines, and on the increase in health expenditure. And that's what we also need to be reminded that we should be cautious about accepting this memo. But I'd go back to two facts about this memo. One thing is that European standards are inevitably waiting for us, and it is evident that in two three years we have to change. And the second is the norm or institute that we'll accept and that's the plan of pantential protection. Which speaks of special benefits to the American pharmaceutical industry. Special benefits. This is something Europe has not accepted, and it will give us the opportunity to cover the agreement with Europe as well as try to dispute. And a third. When we talk about the retroactive action of this law then we have to worry about knowingly entering into activity, that by accepting the memorandum we satisfy the international form, not by passing the law we try to postpone the application that is within a very short period of time. We're consciously getting into this and the law will have irretroactive division. Which means that we will also have a pruning area with the impoliteness of those who will try to exercise their rights in this retrograde action. At this point, we don't even have those estimates telling us what it means. And that's exactly why maybe we should just check again what this game with legal solutions means. Which means it can have negative consequences and how much since there is no very clear data on it. Personally, I have to say, I'm a little disappointed in the silence of the pharmaceutical industry that's always been a very good oactivine. Because I'm also going that they have responsibilities for the future of their companies and employees but also for development. And certainly that, on their part, the fact that it may not be a pity for them would be easier for all of us to decide. Because it's a commitment. The 98th regardless of who he was and why he signed it, it is evident that a commitment was made. But now it's the burden of deciding on us parliamentary deputies. In that burden, it's easier to divide it if we still had written facts a little different than we had until yesterday. Because the pharmaceutical industry has achieved written facts regarding the application of this memo. And since we're entering a very risky legal process, I'd say prolonging the application of this memo would mean thinking and some documents from the pharmaceutical industry to all of us in this decision-making. It is not the only agreement, remember the port of Ploče which is also due to the difficult conditions I would say signed and then as we discussed in the Croatian Assembly about the consequences we will give it or we will not accept it. And that was the reason why the government launched the changes and attempts to change certain conditions. It is evident that this is also one of the possibilities for us to initiate procedures because of the inconceivableness in parliament. Because what we need in this case regarding the memorandum is just a transitional period, it's just a debate on the retrograde of the application of some of these institutes. And that's why maybe we should seriously consider what the right path is that if we can change something so we don't pay a high price tomorrow because of this kind of solution that was brought before us tonight. Because tonight we found out the fact that we're going to try a legal way to postpone the application. But none of us know what the price of it is. And no one can guess if it could cost a lot. And that's exactly why I think accepting this memo was good. We were going to postpone the debate until we really got quality judgments. Because at this point, we really don't have them to support a document like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3837	Thank you very much, counsel. Representative Mr. Kreso Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3838	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, let me get involved, I find this very interesting debate. We should certainly be extremely sensitive and responsible for Croatian national interests in general in terms of economic interest, given the situation in which the Croatian economy is today. And it certainly does not occur to anyone to do anything special in the Croatian Parliament, which would be contrary to Croatian economic interests. but we are forced to comply with certain standards, certain facts that show that there is a significant difference in the amount of knowledge when we integrate into the developed world. The recognition of intellectual property will mean a great disappointment for the Republic of Croatia. Recognition of other people's knowledge of the recognition of other people's products, recognition of the newly created values that are the thing in knowledge-invested societies, which commercialise knowledge and that's fact. And when we are confronted with such agreements that are necessary then we will realize that unfortunately we will have to or will not want to lose what we do not have, and unfortunately we do not have so much knowledge that we can compensate for all that is happening in the sphere of recognition of such agreements. Therefore, no delay in such agreements will improve our situation in any way. It's facts and it's reality and it's reality. I'd especially like to say next. This agreement was signed six years ago. Today after six years, we're looking for simulations. Simulations that should mean quality analysis, analysis that should have been conducted by pharmaceutical houses in the Republic of Croatia. Well, that's really funny, so what have we been doing these past six years? Today in the Croatian Parliament, we need to make a decision, and there are no elements of quality analyticals to be delivered today when this decision is taken by the pharmaceutical house. So, indeed, the facts warn that there is no reason today after six years to initiate a new process of making analytical judgments that would last several years again. The question is whether we're ready for something like that or not. Time shows that our unhappiness, lack of quality information when key strategic decisions are made we can't compensate by stalling that's one thing, and another thing we're going to have to deal with facts and reality as I said at the beginning, those who know more, those who create more so insist on these standards that commercialized for them means profit and that's reality, and that's why I don't think there's any more reason to delay the ratification of this important agreement for several years, because nothing is going to change the essence and reality that I'm talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3839	I thank Mr. Cosic's representative. A representative, Mr. Slavko Linic, came forward to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3840	I'm correcting the incorrect quote that my colleague made, which refers to that there are not enough patents and that the problem in our unhappiness is that we don't create patents. In this area we have a huge number of patents, we have the strongest institutes, and when we talk about "Ply" probably 90% of the applied scientific work is in "Ply". We have too many patents. With this law, we won't be able to use them. That's what I want to fix. This law won't allow that patent.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3841	Thank you to Mr. Linic. Does the Deputy Prime Minister want it to be final? Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dr. Andrew Hebrang.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3842	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the council. All you have said is absolutely true, there is not a single word to be added and what the honored representatives of Mr. Josipovic, Mr. Slavko Linić and what Mr. Agent Kreso Ćosic said are inconclusive facts. However, we must consider that we are running out of time to bring our rules in line that are necessary for international integration. This regulation that has been going on for so many years and that has brought Croatia as I said on an invisible list of 36 countries that don't really know what to do with themselves. By accepting this Memorandum, we give a positive sign to the international community that we are ready to enter into compliance with our regulations with Europeans and here are the Americans, but we do not commit that regulation to be valid from the day of adoption. Because, as I said, there is no such thing as Article 19(2), we really wouldn't have found another solution but to bring all the necessary laws in parallel. But Article 19(2), as I have said and now I repeat, is definitely delaying the text of the Memorandum until the day of the adoption of all the necessary regulations for its application. We are in intensive contact with both Pliva and Belupa and with several other producers who would be affected by this text if he came into effect immediately. So I say the law comes into force and gives a positive sign to the international community but the text does not come into force. We're with them in intensive negotiations, conversations. Let me just tell you that I had two conversations 15 minutes before putting this point on the agenda, these talks are so intense and they definitely agreed because this article 19th guarantee that the damage will not happen and that we have time to apply to harmonize our regulations and that is why, as Mr. Linic said, silence the pharmaceutical industry. Because in this interpretation of this law, they got a guarantee that nothing negative would happen. Analyticals are actually made, we're checking it now. It's our estimate that if this memo were to take effect right now, the damage would be somewhere around $200 million a year, that's the assessment. Maybe something bigger than that. However, we also have suggestions from the pharmaceutical industry that this damage is not to be adjudicated, we will not be able to minimise it as much as possible over the next few months when we commit ourselves to passing these additional laws, so first of all, the amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products and amending the patent laws. So here's another conclusion. All you have said is true, but Article 19 actually gives us the opportunity to correct everything until the entry into force of this text, and to give that text a sign to the international community that right now when we are on the threshold let's say decisions on Croatia's fate to give another argument with which we say is Croatia is able to tackle everything that awaits us. Entering all international integration for a small country is painful. We can currently occupy this pain with Article 19 and delay the headache for a few months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3843	I would like to thank the Vice President and Minister Andrija Hebrang. With this, we exhausted the debate and reported speakers. I'm closing the session, closing the agenda. I'm closing today's session. Tomorrow at 9.30 p.m., we'll proceed with the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3844	Fourth. The final draft law confirming the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights, the emergency procedure, the first second reading, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Government's representative to be made aware of the amendment of the Legislative Committee. Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor please welcome. Minister of Health and Social Welfare Mr. Andrija Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3845	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-02-26-0.u3846	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Abstained? I find that, with 77 votes for 23 against and 1 abstention, the Law on the Confirmation of the Moods of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights in the text was adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the adopted amendment. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with our work. I welcome the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. We move on to the proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2004 Reports you received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yes, dr. Ivo Sanader President Government of the Republic of Croatia
