ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21192	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. You will be presented with a report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003. This problem of demining Croatian space since the end of the Homeland War has been current because, you have seen from the reports, most of the county in the Homeland War has been polluted with mines, and in particular the problem is present in those counties that were either occupied during the Homeland War or where there was a line of demarcation. Each year, the state budget provides funds for the implementation of the demining programme and implements a number of activities other than the demining process itself, and public education procedures are also carried out, given that the very large and pronounced problem of civilian population suffering is. I will tell you only briefly the most basic, most basic parameters of this report, from which will be visible which job is done, how much money has been spent and what the main problems in implementing this, for Croatia an extremely important space. What is certainly good is that the plan, i.e. the assessment of mine-polluted areas for the past year, was achieved by 257%. It means that, compared to the plan, this plan has been significantly exceeded in the real activities carried out. Namely, it was predicted that 110,557,000 m2, and the community was returned to use the area of 284,033.343 m2, which is certainly good because much larger space was examined, it was determined by its pollution, i.e. the non-pollution by mine-explosive means and returned to the use of the social community. It is also evident that the problem of mine pollution is different from county to county and as I said it is visible that it is the most present in the counties that during the war were either occupied or in which war operations were conducted. It is also numerically visible that the number of mine-explosive and other means was found and destroyed during 2003, and it is evident that 27,859 mine-explosive and unexploded killings were found. Of which 3,931 is an anti-walking mine, 2,879 anti-aircraft mines, i.e. 6,810 units of mini-explosive assets and 21,049 other unexploded killings. The demining business in Croatia worked 24 commercial companies during 2003, with the share of certain companies in the demining business being different in percentage share, so it is evident that most of the jobs were done by AKD MUNGOS, which handled 7,701,000 m2 as a percentage of 27%. The second company in the scope of the demining business is DOKING, the third is AVANGARD, the fourth is PPER, the fifth is STANJAK, while all other companies participated in significantly smaller percentages in demining, in the implementation of demining programmes and operations. It is also very important, and these have shown some cases that unfortunately there have been examples of mine-explosive resources in some areas that have passed control, which have been declared clean, but unfortunately there have been some incidents in these areas, and therefore it is very important and important to carry out and monitor and control the quality of the operations done because it is practically a very serious danger if a particular area is declared clear from mines, and then it is found that it is not, which unfortunately was such cases. As regards the financial indicators for the implementation of the 2003 demining programme for these purposes, 290,521,108 kuna was spent, with the sum of which being the most secured from the state budget, total, i.e. 159,021,108 kuna was planned. From the loan for the reconstruction of eastern Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srijem, 11/500,000 were planned, from the funds of public and other companies, the authorities of the state administration and local self-government 54,000 and from donations of 66,000,000. Of these planned 290 million kunas, 281.426.337 kunas were provided and implemented, amounting to 96.80% of the planned funds that were to be provided and spent on demining operations. The Republic of Croatia itself provided 147.521.108 kuna from its own resources last year, with 147.512.969, and 99.99%, respectively, which means that the implementation of the plan was well prepared and that practically all available funds were spent at almost 100%. Public companies, public and other companies, state administration authorities and local self-government have financed demining works totalling 77,893,500 kuna, which is 27,68% of the total funds spent, and it certainly also significantly contributed to this high percentage of the implementation of the demining programme because practically these public companies care about the areas through which railways, highways or roads are passing through, and this is certainly a significant contribution and implementation of the demining programme. The only injunction practically in last year regarding financial resources for the implementation of the demining programme is donations. It is generally known that certain donor institutions and associations and even countries have in some way started to withdraw from Croatia by stabilising the situation and by opening some new crisis hotspots in some other areas, even for us, so that it is realistic to expect, in the future, that these donor funds for implementation of the demining programme and for the coming years, will need to be reduced, i.e. to provide more funding from the state budget or from other sources, so that this demining process is not only maintained at this level as it was in 2003, but certainly because of all the problems that mines represent it should be strengthened. As for some problems or some indicators that show that this demining problem is quite complex, it may be most obvious that there have been significant oscillations in demining prices during the past year, and these prices are shown per square metre. The average price in 2003 was 6.69 kuna per m2 while in 2002 it was 9.5 kuna. These price reductions occurred due to the emergence of new demining companies due to higher competition and these oscillations were significant over the year so that even in certain months, certain periods of demining fell to 4.14 kuna per m2 which again was a problem because it was impossible to carry out demining operations at these prices. It is also very important to mark mine polluted areas, and in 2003 the marking of mine suspected spaces of 357 thousand 475 m2. So these were new areas that appear as potential sources of danger that need to pass the verification and demining process if the presence of mines in these mine suspected areas is indeed determined. One of the most important jobs that can contribute to the acceleration of this demining process and increase public security in areas that are suspicious of mine pollution is certainly the production of accurate, precise maps, and this still requires a certain technique, since the existing technique is really quite difficult to make precise maps that can be used crediblely for economic purposes, but also that they can guarantee the public's safe life in these areas without danger from unmarked mine areas. Last year, the same thing that was encouraging, there was a drop in the number of incidents from mine explosives compared to 2002 and compared to previous years. In 2003, seven classic mine incidents were recorded within mine suspected areas in which nine people were killed. Of these incidents, seven incidents were three accidents in the pyrotechnic examination, an area where three pyrotechnics were severely injured. There is a clear drop in the number of incidents as well as the number of victims from 1998 until today, which is certainly one of the most positive effects of programme implementation and demining, so since 1998, when 92 people were killed, we have reached these nine victims in 2003, which is certainly encouraging data. This reduction in the number and incidents and the number of victims must be affected by several activities carried out in the demining process, which is primarily increased marking of space as mine suspects and on the other hand increased number of educational activities that draw attention to the dangers of mines by the public. The chart shows that the number of designated kilometres is growing as suspects and that the number and quality of educational activities in public education is increasing, thus reducing the number of mine-explosives killed. In addition, it is clear that the process of marking mine suspected areas should also pay great attention to and education of the public because it certainly results in a reduction in the number of people suffering from mine explosives. These educational activities have been conducted through several different visions. These were exhibitions conducted all over Croatia, especially in those areas where the threat of mine-explosive resources was threatened, TV and radio videos, performances, and CROMAC conducted an ecological action of collecting old paper to demining forest landscapes, presentations and other forms. It is also evident that in the structure of the victims of mine-explosive assets are far more represented adults. They are involved with 70%, and children with 30%, and otherwise adult education is more complex and expensive than children's education, so in the future it must certainly pay even more attention to the implementation of these educational actions in order to influence the reduction of the number of victims of mine-explosive means because it is certainly cheaper until the entire territory of Croatia is cleared from the remaining mine-explosive assets. It is also important to implement assistance to victims of mine-explosive means, and there are various kinds of assistance provided to people who have suffered from mine-explosive means, and it will also certainly need to pay serious attention to this problem because they are highly traumatised people and will continue to allocate significant resources for them. And the bottom line of this report is I'm going to repeat it means that the plan has been achieved by 275%, that during last year there has been a drop in the number of people killed by mine explosives, which is a multi-year trend that is certainly good. However, while one person in Croatia suffers from mine explosives, it will certainly be a problem for the entire social community because it is necessary to help those areas that have already suffered significantly in the war and are now suffering the consequences of the war and years after its formal completion. One of the main problems that usually arises throughout the year and throughout this period is precisely the doing of demining operations, since more and more firms are emerging on the market that compete for demining operations are experiencing price reductions, and since relatively low prices are being achieved, this has a significant impact on the social position and on the status of pyrotechnicians. So you were witnessing that we had several announcements of protest by pyrotechnics who simply did not at this price, or those companies that did demining, could not at this price provide adequate wages that would attract people who could do this demining work. Then the problem is also the oscillations on the demining market, and you saw that there was practically an oscillation in prices during the last year ranging from about 300% from 4 to 12 kuna, which is certainly not good because it is too serious work for such large price oscillations to take place, as well as the Croatian Mine Action Centre, but also the Government will have to engage significantly in providing larger donor funds and providing funds in the budget that will be sufficient for this very serious job to be carried out in Croatia in order to reduce Croatia's deadline for the final and complete cleaning of Croatia from mines to the shortest possible deadline. Here, I've brought out some of the most important data from this report. So if there are questions they'll be safe, since I know this is an important issue that is particularly relevant in the counties where there are mine suspected areas where there have been and casualties, and we're getting questions from the MUP about demining. More detailed data on the demining business can be provided by the head of the Croatian Mine Action Centre Mr. Otto Jungvird in case of need of me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21193	We're going to a debate. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, Chairman of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21194	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Internal Policy and National Security Committee of 19 September 2004 discussed the report on the implementation of the plan for the demining of Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Croatian Act of 13 May 2004 to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee discussed the report on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 63. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent board. In his opening presentation, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia met the board members with the starting basis for the development plan for the Croatian state space for 2003 and the basic tasks of the 2003 plan. It further provided information on the implementation of the plan and on the spending of financial resources for 2003 with a specific reference to parts of the plan which have not been achieved and the reasons for their failure. A representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded that the demining plan for the Croatian state space for 2003 was realised in the largest number of tasks. In the follow-up to the debate, the debate focuses on the reasons for the failure of part of the plan and on the problems in the functioning of the mine action system made during 2003, which primarily relate to the conditions of work of pyrotechnicians and in general to the market situation and demining. Following the discussion, the Committee unanimously reached the following conclusion: The Committee takes note of the report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21195	Thank you. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club Libre, Honorable Representative William Herman. He's gone. He's losing his word on this subject. Dear Representative Zeljko Krapjan on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21196	I thank the esteemed Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary and Mr. Director with an associate, colleague and fellow MPs. We have a report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I will talk about this report and say that representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will take note of this report. In the report, we have a basic mission plan for 2003. The plan was adopted at a meeting of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 6 March 2003, where the following basic tasks were defined. First. The community return to use an area of 110 million 557 thousand and 700 meters square and perform continuous marking of mine suspected surfaces. Second. Build a complete mine information system. And a third. Conduct public education on mine dangers and assistance to mine victims. Area returned to the community. The community was returned to use an area of 284 million 33 thousand and 343 metres square, representing a 257% achievement compared to the planned size. These 257% sound pretty nice, probably that's why the highway was built, so it wasn't planned enough, so there was a change of norm and the percentage was quite high. We've got a record of a plan being achieved by county. The table shows that the plan was not reached in Požega-slavonska and Virovitica-Podravska County for the following reason. During the general survey, new knowledge of mining occurred, mostly forest areas and it was not possible to achieve an estimated exclusion of areas from mine suspected surfaces resulting in the failure of the overall plan in these two counties. During demining in 2003, a total of 27,856 mines of explosives and unexploded killings were found. Of which 3,931 anti-walking mines, namely 6 thousand 810 pieces of mine explosives and 21 thousand and 49 pieces of other unexploded killings. The demining and technical survey were conducted by 24 commercial companies with a total of 587 pyrotechnics, 41 demining machines and 104 dogs for mine detection. In the report we have a presentation of the participation of the demining company on demining projects. The company "AKADEMUGUS D.O.O.", in recent years there has been a decline in the participation of the company in total, in the total area visible from the following data. In 2001, the participation was 53%, in 2002. 39.7 and 27.5% in 2003. This is due to an increase in the capacity of private companies on the market. I believe that this participation of other companies is very good because we automatically came to a smaller square of meters, meaning lower price, is reduced but so we have from 11 and even in one period and up to 4 kuna. From the supervision and quality of works, we can see that the Croatian Mine Action Mine Action Centre is carried out through the Quality Control and Control Department. These activities were carried out by nine pyrotechnic overseers and nine pyrotechnic overseers. Supervisors are involved in the system at the beginning of 2003 on the basis of an assessment of the need for increased control over the performance of demining works. Professional quality control and quality control during demining and technical reconnaissance activities was conducted 2108 times at the workshops. During the performance of professional surveillance and quality control activities, the following characteristic problems and failures in the work of authorised legal persons to carry out demining operations have been identified. First of all, these are the security measures to carry out demining operations, which is not to carry the prescribed protective equipment. It is most noted that there is no helmet with a visor then a system of connections and an insufficient force of radio devices for full communication. Not only is there insufficient strength but there is also insufficient amount of radio equipment itself which I also believe is not good or right. The organisation of the workshop, the same observed insufficient quality of documents then only marking, insufficient means of marking as well as the method of marking is not well defined and solved. Then we have demining and searching, meaning keeping mine-explosive funds and destroying within the proper time limit, we know here we are bound by the Geneva Convention in which and within which time certain pedestrian mines must be solved. Financial operations for 2003. Looking at the financial aspect of the implementation of the plan, it is evident that the State budget funds have been achieved by 99.89%. Loans for the reconstruction of Eastern Slavonia and Baranja and Western Sreme with 83.29%. The funds of public and other companies, state administration authorities and local self-government with 144.25. We have a visible increase here, and that's probably because participation and parts of local administration and self-government and our public enterprises, or it's on that section of highway construction through Lika and part of Dalmatia. While the biggest bribery was in the realization of the planned donations, it was 53.19%, meaning the implementation of the 2003 plan. I don't suppose that subjugation should have happened, and it shouldn't have happened. It's probably something that's been fixed this year, so we should be working on it a lot more. Of the planned 290 million and 521 thousand 198 kuna in 2003, 280 million 426 thousand 337 kuna and 96.87% were spent, respectively. The Croatian Mine Action Centre for 2003 was planned in the State Budget totalling 231 million 495 thousand and 17 kuna, and on two occasions during July and August 2003 there was a budget rebalancing due to long-term drought insurance and the provision of funds for the implementation of parliamentary elections. The largest reduction occurred in the demining position, which was reduced by 17 million 669 thousand and 840 kuna and at the position of material expenditures of 3 million 15 thousand and 658 kuna. So, in all, there were about 20 million and 700 thousand kunas in total, which I believe is wrong, and there was absolutely no need to take it off those two items because those 20 million kunas would be proud not to say square meters, and certainly they would have saved one human life because the former government, headed by Mr. Racan, had to find a solution from some other position that part. I think the last thing we can touch is the means to demining. Public and other companies, state administration authorities and local self-government financed demining works totalling 77 million 893 thousand and 500 kuna, amounting to 27.68% of the total funds spent for demining in 2003. The works in demining in 2003 were the most funded by Croatian highways with 64.36% and this area needed for the construction of the Zagreb-Split highway, we know well which stakeholders are involved. And to conclude the Croatian Democratic Community Club takes note of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21197	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21198	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the SDP Club accepts and supports this report, which has been done well, quality and professionally as it has been so far, reports from the Croatian Mine Action Centre as our central institution dealing with demining operations and which, in a model sense, would say very interesting to some other countries, and the mine problem in the world has about 70 countries. Just because we managed to make CROMAC an institution that integrates in a good way, I would say the state, the public sector, the private sector and NGOs. I'd say that's the reason and the good indicators that we're given in this 2003 report. First of all, the fact that the community has been returned to space two and a half times as much as we planned. The fact that by general reconnaissance the mine suspected surface was reduced by 308% compared to the plan and that, by the way, it was demined by the community through the technical reconnaissance business, the demining 110% was a transfer, speaking without a doubt that it was a successful year for the Croatian Mine Action Centre, or for all those who are in this business in this country. I think, above all, that the most remarkable information would have been that none of the people had been killed, the fact that for the first time only one person had died in mine fields in the past year, which is unfortunately not going to be said for this because we already had 12 incidents. That is, if I'm not mistaken for eight fatalities. Ten. Even 10 fatalities this year compared to the last one in which only one person died. There's a whole series here, I'd say good indicators. The discussion of the report is not only about CROMAC but it is about the mine problem in Croatia. I think it's very important that we in the Parliament recognize what's good, what needs to be affirmed and future as a concept, as a model and what needs to be supported in various ways, but also to see where we stick it. So the point of these reports is exactly that. I would say that the good news that is visible in this report is the fact that in 2002 we finally made a few, I would say, or make a few important decisions that contributed to it. The fact is, for example, that we have set up a Croatian Mine Action Centre which was a homeless person in a quality and good way and placed it in the town of Sisak and we have created good technical assumptions that the centre itself and all the district services on the ground function in a good way. That management and management jobs have been decentralised, which is also a big deal and shows the advantage of such a concept and such, such an approach. The next good, good move that we made in late 2002 was to strengthen the professional strength of the CROMAC itself by accepting a number of pyrotechnics who had been left without a job at the Ministry of the Interior, thus creating a professional assumption that CROMAC itself could perform a technical reconnaissance especially when rhyche about the spaces that were needed, so they did not reduce the low suspicious surface but could build on that surface, they could determine whether some surface was mined or not. The fact is also that from 2002 to 2003 the number of demining companies increased from 22, 23 to 40 and something. The truth of the report shows 25 are really involved in demining business. It is, and it's not good. It is certainly good that competition is created, which is as desirable in this business as any other which has led to a reduction and a significant reduction in demining price. The truth at one point because of some jobs that weren't too honorable, when it came to companies, I would say a rapid and excessive price reduction that could have put the seriousness of the business itself at risk. Also positive that CROMAC strengthened the supervisory or professional to say so teamed up that it could do better. According to CROMAC law, we have to examine 0.5% of demining surfaces, so our pyrotechnics in CROMAC were able to view the average of 1.33 which also reduces the risk of the demining surface being dangerous. In particular, it considers the valuable and important work that has taken place and which has not yet been completed but which will greatly reduce the mine suspected surface area itself and the costs that we have, and this is about building a complete mine-information system. This mine-informatic system will now, unlike the previous years, be replaced by new orthophotos where we will get a completely updated situation on the ground and where we will be able to completely avoid leading as suspicious surfaces of those who are not, who have been brought back to the purposes that are being processed for years and so on and so on. And that p roars about demining will then get a completely different dimension. I would especially like to commend CROMAC's work on education, in cooperation with NGOs, especially in helping mine victims. As you know, mine victims are entitled to health insurance but their psychosocial rehabilitation is a job that is best done by NGOs. In this sense, an important project is being organised in Rovinj, at the Mladen Horvat hospital where Croatia has allocated the area to build a regional mine victims' assistance centre, which is fully funded, I would say from donation funds and will be the only such species in the world. It's something that needs to be talked about, too. About 6,000 people went through various forms of education, a large number of adults unfortunately grew up to prove more difficult for education and to suffer more easily most of these victims actually knew that they were entering the minefield. So this education that takes place through the exhibitions, through TV radio videos, through plays of theatre, which is also very good to say to organise cooperation with the NGO sector should be commended. I don't know how much we can be satisfied with this data I don't understand about when it comes to marking mine suspected space. I think it has to be in conditions until we know that we're going to be mined for another five years or more, it has to be that it's not so expensive and it can save people's lives. Something's been done, but I don't think that's particularly giving it enough. And in particular, I would like to thank the fact that CROMAC itself formed a Croatian Mine Action Centre, a development and training centre that is our own ticket and for international cooperation, so that we can, and that they come to our education that we can commercially work for others, and when we do not have a mine problem. But let me now say something about what is seen as negative and bad or problematic, and it comes from this report. First, there's a report about it, but it's public talk. It's about the social situation of the pyrotechnics. I think this opportunity to say that position is not satisfactory. Out of that, a lot of dissatisfaction, the security of people's wages, collective agreements, and so on are not solved. I consider myself partly even responsible with regard to the work that I've been doing, that we haven't been able to do that story in a satisfactory way. Also, the fact that we have a market and oscillation on the market that they have led to we also have to regulate the given price in a certain way doesn't even fall to 4.5 or 5 kuna, because then it can really be a problem how these works will be done in quality. What we seem to have to support as a Parliament, which we must in some way and initiate, is, the faster we make a new demining law, what I must also ask the Croatian Government to pre-accession funds for the European Union that we have at our disposal also use for greater investment in demining operations. Drugo, that where we failed which is also visible that are donations that are yields is to step up and secure more money in the budget. Unfortunately, with this money that we are now demining here, we will not demining Croatia until 2010. Croatia is one of the rare countries demining its own money. In other countries in Bosnia, for example, these own funds are about 6, or 7%, everything else is donations but they are not even demining. They don't clean up mines. I'd like to collect what we can ask the world to give us, but that philosophy is still "Trust Use and in Your Beaks" 500 million kunas a year we have to provide for demining. Otherwise, the story won't be finished until 2010. I hope that when we get a new national programme or an innovative national demining programme, that it will be consensually accepted in this country, it is our destiny to say so. Mines are around us, and there's no story of development, anything if we don't remove mines definitely and finally we as a generation that we have this obligation to clean and preserve and the safety of people in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21199	Thank you. Dear Representative Frano Piploić on behalf of the Club HSLSA and DCA.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21200	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected coelgics and fellow MPs. The DCA and HSLSA take note of this report, but as a Klub and as people, we can't be satisfied, not with the work of these people who worked to demining mined areas in Croatia, but the fact that citizens still have to live with mines for a long time. That there will be long potential victims of mines, that if this trend continues more often in the paper, we will have headlines with reports that a man died, that his arm was torn off. That's what worries us all. We all know that this insidious killer among us, mostly across the line of the battlefield, we all know that at first the Croatian soldiers suffered the most, but when they ceased to act, the victims were mostly civilians of all possible profiles, from farmers, hunters, fishermen, young people, then employees in public enterprises that cleared up certain areas, whether they were working in forestry, whether they were in telecommunications, road infrastructure, etc. According to estimates, about 1/4 of Croatia was poisoned by mines. Or, from 21 counties in 14 Croatian counties, we had areas under mines. Between 1991 and 2000, 1,818 people were killed in Croatia by mines, counting clearly on soldiers and civilians. The DC and HSLS Club particularly assesses the alarming situation at the premises of Slavonia, mostly three counties: County of Brod-Posavina, Vukovar-Srijemska and Požega-Slavonska. These CROMAC reports have recorded these areas and the report itself states that the plan envisaged has also not been implemented. Clearly, it is concluded from all of this that far greater needs are in the area of these three counties than the possibilities of CROMAC or state to demining the area. In a conversation with people in Slavonia, a person comes to one conclusion, especially when such severe tragedies occur, and people wonder if they must already be killed in the war, do we really have to die in peace? By how long will we be prevented from going to our fields, from working our orans, from cleaning our orchards, from making new plantations, from going to our forests, because it is known to everyone that Slavonac is deeply in love with his Slavonia and his country? People wonder if they won't be late for reporting, say, nada, I see that they're applying for the European Union. Europeans keep track of every tree being planted, that maybe one day we won't be competitive with them when I enter the European Union? In all available reports, starting from these municipal over county to CROMAC reports, the main reason for the failure to implement this plan is the lack of money. And we're wondering if that's enough reason? Whether money must be sufficient reason for one part of Croatian citizens to live under special circumstances, circumstances of danger. Clearly, it was just said here that it is unrealistic to expect the "Croatia without Mines" to be achieved by 2010. Given the fact that the demining price of 1m2 is somewhere around 20 kuna, so when it is multiplied by 4,000 km2, we get to a fragrant figure, which clearly Croatia and Croatian citizens cannot handle on their own. Clearly, we should share that burden and seek help with others. If this problem is not high quality, professionally, I say conditionally internationalised, everything suggests that citizens of these three counties will have to prepare for a longer life with mines, live with mines and in the future, but also with real dangers that citizens in these environments are daily potential victims of mines. According to CROMAC data from the end of the war until today, in the area of the Požega-Slavon County, 76 people were killed, 18 fatal, 43 with severe injuries, and 15 with minor injuries. In the area of Brod-Posavina County only in the first 6 months of this year, four people were killed, 3 were killed, and 1 were difficult. In the area of Vukovar-Srijem County over the past 4 years, 12 people have been killed, 4 fatal, 2 with severe injuries, and 6 with minor injuries. Most of these accidents occurred in places that were not marked. It was just said here that people were killed because they didn't make sure it was allegedly marked. I have here a report from the Police Administration of Vukovar-Srijem County for the period 2001-2002. Here, let's say we have seven incidents where it was unmarked, Marines, Jarmina, Nuštar, Lower New Village, Lipovac, Piglets, Germans, Pogradje, Ivankovo. It's an official report from the Police Department of Werewolves. The marking problem is really big. We do not say that the CROMAC authorities did not mark it, however, whether it was deliberately removed to put another person in danger or the grass covered it, but in any case someone should be more concerned that those labels that were placed are still in place, someone has to control it, and in this respect a much greater co-operation with local self-government units is needed. There should be someone in particular in charge, just to take care of that aspect, because this aspect is one of the main reasons why people fall into minefields, enter minefields and suffer. Clearly, there are police administrations that should probably also find some agreement that these areas that are registered as mine areas should be controlled by them. It might also be helpful to consider that those areas that will not soon be marked, say fences, to ban access to those areas, clearly with the aim of preserving human lives. How do you solve this problem? We are thinking that we should make another more aggressive campaign in all media, in all kinds, starting with kindergartens, schools, all over the media, simply like many other ads that want to promote the right products, services, so aggressively through our media. You should make such a campaign in our media. Because, gentlemen, he's falling for the poor again. The poor are dead again. All these people who died, they were poor. Two pyrotechnicians from Oriovec near Slavonski Brod are at their mouths in the Sava Channel Sava River Glogovica lost their lives as well. The young man and the girl also walked along the edge of the city, also suffered. If they had money, they probably wouldn't be spending part of their summer holidays here along the Sava River, they'd probably go on some other vacations. Clearly, it obliges us all to be more serious about this problem, that it can't be the money that will justify the prolonging of this plotted goal. The consequences are clearly great for these areas. There is fear among people, and besides that, these areas are developing unevenly. I said a little while ago, hard to process fields, orchards, less chance of hunting and recreational tourism. It is lagging behind in rebuilding houses and gardens, slowing the return of refugees and exiles, and that is the same important fact, because today beautiful various labels to the Croatian government, the Croatian state, slows down the return of refugees and exiles, etc. And who's crazy to go out there in an environment that could cost him his head. As human beings and techniques are no longer a problem, but the main problem is money, we at the DC Club and HSLS think that within CROMAC should be specially set up a fund-raising department, means that it deals exclusively with these funds, that it deals with better lobbying both domestic and foreign factors, because everyone needs to know that Croatia does not have the necessary money for demining. At the end of the day, we should also take into account budgeting for the following year, so much more funding should be planned for these purposes. And another problem that I have been discussing with the mayors of these three counties and people who take care of demining has been found out, which is that the Brod-Posavia County and Požeko-Slavon County were recently part of the Osijek branch office of CROMAC. Now it's transferred to Karlovac and somehow people are reluctant to accept it and think it might also be one reason to slow down demining on surfaces in the area of these three counties. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21201	Thank you very much. Dear representative Ljubica Lalic on behalf of the HSS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21202	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the rapporteur, colleagues and colleagues. As usual, as every year and this year, the report on the implementation of the demining plan of Croatia's state space and spent financial resources for 2003 is before us. The Croatian Peasant Party's Club accepts the report because it should not be variable if it contains facts and paints a factual state. The tasks of the 2003 plan were to return to the community the area of 110 million 557 thousand and 700 m2 to be used and to continue to mark mine suspected space, to create a complete mine financial system and to conduct public education on mine dangers and to help mine victims. In the report, we read that the community was returned to use an area of 284 million 033,000 m2 which represents a 257% achievement compared to the planned size. 28 million m2 was demined, which is 2,84 million m2 less than in 2002. However, with general and technical reconnaissance, a significantly larger area has been excluded from mine suspected space so that in the end the community has been returned to use 4.7 times more than a year ago. If we bear in mind that in 2002 369 million kunas were spent for demining, and 195 million kunas were spent in 2003, then there is room for satisfaction because 173 million kunas were spent almost five times more successfully. It was certainly due to the decline in the average demining price per m2. The clarifications are working. The price fell from 11.31 kuna per m2 to 4.14 kuna per m2. From the point of view of the state budget, that's good, and from the point of view of an ordinary citizen who lives on mines in polluted areas is good, then it's only good, provided that that's why there's no threat to the safety of both citizens and the pyrotechnicians who do this dangerous work. And that places of concern have shown that during the control of the demining operations carried out, ten workshops of a total area of 662 000 m2 were found mine explosive assets and unexploded deadly assets and new search was ordered for authorised persons. We ask ourselves, are all the areas covered by surveillance and will the citizens of this country suffer in the demining areas in the future? In addition to the above, surveillance has seen how the rapporteur says, characteristic problems and failures in the work of authorised legal persons: insufficient security measures in the performance of demining operations, including non-compliance with the prescribed protective equipment and a weak and inadequate system of links, insufficient quality of documents, insufficient means of marking as well as the way of marking. So it's obvious that the safety of the pyrotechnics is in grave danger. Competition is good, but we fear it is easy to get permits to work on such dangerous jobs, and the victims are pyrotechnicists, and ultimately the citizens of the Republic of Croatia themselves. We are pleased that the 2003 plan was implemented with 257%, but we are not satisfied with the implementation of the plan by individual counties. For example, the report tells us that the plan in the demining and technical reconnaissance in County was realised with 113.5%, Požeško-slavonska 222.10%, Split-Dalmatia 214,8%, Sibenik-Kninsko 222.10%, Zadarska 329,8% and Bjelovarsko-Belogorje 405.8%. Contrary to our fantastic data in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the plan is part of demining and technical reconnaissance, with 35.2%, Sisak-Moslavina 54.2%, Zagreb 59.9%, and in Brod-Posavina only 27.7%. Why it's so there's no excuse. The explanation in the report that the reason for the failure to implement the plan in those counties is conditional on the unrealisation of the planned financial resources of public enterprises, and the least said explanation is ridiculous. The owner of public enterprises is a state which is obliged in the same way and equally responsible to care for each of its county. This even and fair concern in this report is not visible, and if it is not a mere coincidence, we will be reminded of the report's report for 2002. Making the plan come true. In Lika-Senj County 126.76%, Zadar 148.11%, Split-Dalmatia 161,17%. Contrary to these data, the implementation of the plan in Sisak-Moslavina County 65.95%, Zagreb 20.43%, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 88.47%, and Brod-Posavina 14.46%. Since this Report to the Croatian Parliament was not directed by the Croatian Mine Action Centre but directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, then we ask the Government when and how it will correct the apparent injustices committed to these counties. The County of Brod-Posaviska, through its assembly, reacted fiercely to this relationship of the Croatian Mine Action Centre towards the County, proposing that, due to a major delay in demining the area of the county, the Commissioner for the county would professionally fulfil its obligations until the finalisation of the demining plan. Of course, no one even looked back on the proposal of the County Assembly. How serious the situation is there shows that only one kilometer from the centre of the Slavon ship in a month three people were killed by mines. Neglect according to this county goes as far as possible that the Ministry of Defence has not felt the need to demining the location of the brewery, the Maccavac, the Sava side to allow access to the remains of the aircraft of the late Homeland War knight Rudolph Perishin, why the Ministry of Defence. So because it can do so without any special effort and in collaboration with the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity to remember some moments, it can arrange the area as a mention of the area. Encouraging the rapporteur's optimism that it will be within the planned deadline. By 2010, the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia will be demined. It is likely that optimism would be justified if it would at least be delayed if it did not speed up the time period from 2000 to 2003, especially in 2003. Whether started dynamics will continue, we're not quite sure about that. Namely, the sources of demining financing are the state budget, public and other enterprises, state administration bodies, local self-government and donations. Last year, donations planned to raise 66 million kuna, and 35 million kuna were collected. After several years, the growth of donated funds is recorded as falling, the reasons we are not familiar with but this element should be kept in mind when expressing optimism in the realization of the plan. Furthermore, the rapporteur says the marking of mine suspected areas is one of the more difficult tasks of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. 357 thousand square meters were marked, and renewal was done. We want to point out the need for more frequent renewal, because the signs disappear over time and the space is not demined and poses danger to the citizens they are suffering from. Despite the fact that the number of incidents and victims has been reduced from 93 victims in the year 98 to 9 in 2003, the danger of mines is still high because nothing is more valuable than human life. Therefore, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club will accept the report submitted, by requiring equal implementation of the plan in all counties. The danger is for all equals, and therefore the priorities are equal and there cannot be privileges and neglects here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21203	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21204	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. The HSP Club is taking this report to the knowledge of the facts that I will tell you in the further part. In fact, HSP representatives maintain regular office days and HSP representatives are addressed by many citizens and pyrotechnicians themselves who are seeking and we will convey the voice to the public to answer the question, meaning the head of the government, and the leader of CROMAC, which tortures them and what is essentially the situation on the ground. If it only starts this year, unfortunately 10 people died this year, four pyrotechnics, and six civilians. And it's already a fact that we all need to be heavily concerned about together, and it just shows that there's a lot that's not right. Namely, the obligation to mark we heard here, it exists, it is the obligation of the state, the state executes through CROMAC or through someone else, through the Ministry of Interior, and if a civilian, and if, dead in the parts that were to be marked, is not marked, objectively according to the Law on Mandatory Relations, that family has the right to compensation from the State, because the state was obliged to implement it, has not implemented, and whoever will answer for it, no one is responsible for that part for now. I don't know if the families know they're right. That's the same situation with these four pyrotechnics. Let's just say in Mungos, I think 16 pyrotechnics have died so far. Whether their rights have been resolved or not, the families of the fallen pyrotechnicians have not been resolved at all. We in our proposal of the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families have a solution to the death of pyrotechnicians, i.e. the family as well as the wounded exercise the same rights if they are wounded as Croatian wartime disabled, if they are families, that they exercise rights as well as families of the dead Croatian defenders because we know that this is, in essence... the task of demining, that they participate in the demining in the most difficult part of the Croatian defenders themselves. And we ask the Government to move quickly, for a long time this Law that will not see the light of day, therefore, is the only solution to accept this solution as a transitional period in the Proposal for Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, the Government does not have it in its solution in what it has shown. So we can't play that thing again now, so wait a year when we get a new demining report and we haven't done anything again and the stiuation is more than alarming. In particular, unfortunately, it is constantly continuing to obtain certificates for certain areas that they are demining and, unfortunately, they are not. We have casualties in areas that have received a certificate that demining was made and that is essentially not so, we had a first case somewhere in 98th and 99th, and this situation continues. And now, on behalf of all those who have addressed us to the HSP Club, I'm going to ask some questions here to the leaders and representatives of the Government that people who are involved in this and the citizens are interested in. They ask themselves how it is possible for last year, so in 2003, a total demining contest in the last three months was given a larger area than for the first 9 months of that year. And whether it was an exact intention to deliberately reduce the price of a square metre of demining because we know that that year the budget rebalance was also made, so about 17 million in the budget rebalancing was taken from the item and returned to the state budget. If we are not mistaken during that year 2003, both employers and leaders and union members warned the government and the leadership of CROMAC, meaning advice and all that meeting the dynamic plan in order for Croatia to be demined within the planned deadline by 2010. It won't be spent. And even though the leaders today claimed that this was not true, the funds were sufficient and these few months during the French government's donation, it was said that if Croatia wanted to deminise planned within the planned deadline, several times the financial resources were needed. And now we're just analyzing what's written in the media what statements have made and now we see that once there are important differences are becoming in the same important field, obviously either the public is being misinformed or the incorrect, incorrect data is being presented in terms of whether it's being attributed to this, to that, but we can't do that, we have to always inform the public exactly what the situation is, which is possible this year, which is not done. We know for ourselves that donations are far less than what we would need and what promises were but listen, this is a situation that we always have to rely on our strengths and resources. During last year, when we saw the crisis, the demining of the leadership claimed that we were in 2007 and about demining that we would end it by 2010. Now again we hear new things that unfortunately we are very late and that this part will not be implemented in this way given the dynamics of the resources needed and everything else. If I'm not mistaken, listening through the media and reading the press last year, the price per metre square amounted to about 6 kuna per metre, most of the year and companies worked thanks to the system of public competition and criteria and at a price of 3.5 kuna per metre square metre. How do we explain now such a drastic drop in prices if we know that prices in 2002 were 12 kuna per metre square metre. I am particularly interested in this because the other day I read a statement from the Russian Minister of Emergency that they will most likely not come to work in Croatia because the average prices in the world for demining jobs are about $3 m per square metre. So we only, in terms of supply and demand in this area, have achieved that the price has fallen completely unlike others, let's take the price of electricity and other things and we always have to measure according to these standards. Thus, there are many of these situations and unresolved issues. Furthermore, now I would also like to finally hear a response from the public as to how much capacity you need, how much funding we need to make one of the most important priority tasks, both these governments and the former and all of us here present. Because you know what? Yes, and I think that because of the poor planning of these tasks, there have been major problems, and this has all gone to pyrotechnicians, employees, they are Croatian defenders who have either been to the MUPU or have been to the Ministry of Defence who are on loan. The fact that the guys told me that only Mungof owes the pyrotechnics the amount according to the collective contract of more than 15 million kuna and we know from others how they work in Mungos, Mungos gets jobs by direct contract, means he has a better position because he's, like, a state firm and then rents equipment from other companies to do so. And we have a lot of situations to get a job, the first hand runs the third hand. And you take the pink. Therefore, the situation is more than alarming, we need to hear precisely today when and within what time, which dynamics we can bring to an end and responsibly determine for marking the space that is mined. Who is responsible and who will answer to the families of the dead civilians. And what did the state do there? Families need to press charges for damages because the state has failed to do what is mandatory and who will answer for it? Who will be responsible for what the pyrotechnics are doing to us under abnormal conditions? What do they get paid from day to day? And we know what it is, a dangerous task. And when we finally, we suggested that at least partially get rid of their rights, when the government will finally come out with those promises, the former government promised, and this one would finally resolve the rights of the pyrotechnics and all those involved but unfortunately it was not resolved either. The only thing we're saying is that we've put into our defense law proposal that this first, worst part of it means the death of a pyrotechnician is solved and solved by a case of injury, wounding a pyrotechnician. Therefore, because of these facts we can take this report we are aware of and demand full responsibility and public response to all these questions which I have asked on behalf of pyrotechnicians and Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21206	Dear Vice President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS and PGS Club will support this report on the implementation of the Croatian state space demining plan and spent financial resources for 2003. From the introduction and planned demining of the Croatian state space for 2003, the 257% plan could be satisfied and more than that the report did not show that even more could have been done and that it was necessary to act more politically and encourage the Croatian public and the county and cities to become more involved in the collection and donation of funds. We are witnessing that the counties that are the most endangered and also the poorest have been donated for demining until the counties that have not been threatened in the war, i.e. Nor have they suffered destruction, they have failed to help part of Croatian territory that is still under mines and people live under abnormal conditions. We see so clearly from Izvesć that Osijek-Baranja County, Vukovar-Srijemska, Zagreb County and the City of Zagreb are the only donations. We think that all counties and all cities should participate in the donation and the organization of various events, concerts and various sports events. Furthermore, all of our diplomatic representations in the world, the possibilities not only of our diaspora that would certainly be involved in the work and collection of donations, but also of foreign associations that have shown their human character, and I think we could have done more and I suggest that we do not make these same shortcomings this year. I don't even want to know what money our cities give to their football pets. Well, I think there's part of it we could set aside for the purpose of clearing the land under mines. No matter what the increase in funding is and what for the same money we can clean up a lot more ground because we know there's been an abnormal drop in the price of cleaning mines per meter square. We need to make even more efforts to speed up and shorten the time to clear mines and for this is foreseen in 2010. I propose this because this part of Croatia's citizens who have endured the greatest burden in the war itself, we have witnessed that now and when there is no war they live in abnormal conditions. They are simply not in an equal position with other Croatian citizens. That is why I think that the entire Croatian public is making the most of the engagement, the collection of funds, and that with the budget for this year and the greater involvement of the entire political public life in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in the world through our diplomatic representations. In this year 2004, we make even better results than they were made in 2003. If we look at the victims' chart in 2003, we can't be satisfied with this one death victim who died. The decline in the number of incidents as well as the number of victims from 1998 to today is evident, resulting in higher education and media monitoring of all mine hazard activities. Which should still be done. Seven incidents were reported in 2003. 3 of these are accidents in the field's pyrotechnic examination where three pyrotechnics were killed. We can see that mortal 1 was killed, 4 more severe and 4 more easily injured. Finally, we can say that the 2003 plan was to the greatest extent successful, with the need for even greater activity in the realization of donations and greater concern for pyrotechnicians and the evaluation of their work. I propose to the Parliament to invite all municipalities, cities and counties to allocate at least 1% of the funds planned for the national team in favour of the Croatian Mine Action Centre next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21207	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Mato Raven. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen from the Croatian Mines Centre. What is the problem and the danger of mines I don't think any citizen of the Republic of Croatia needs to be specifically explained, especially for us here in the Croatian Parliament. It is visible in the end from the debates that were brought here on behalf of the clubs, and it is certain that the best that the problem is understood by all those who felt it directly on their skin above all else, I would say all the horrors of war, especially all those who, over the years after the war, were not deprived of life's dangers because they were mined, and I would say death most often the first neighbours. For these very reasons, and this report that we have today, I do not think that it is a set of numbers that need to be discussed coldly, but above all a report that will be the basis for establishing the actual state of affairs and for determining the real measures and activities that we must urgently take to address this burning problem for all those in the immediate environment of mines as soon as possible. This report shows that the demining plan for 2003 of a total of 1630 km square km under mine suspected surfaces is planned to return to full function 110 km square, which is for each commendation because it has really returned 284 km square or almost 2 and a half times the plan. However, despite the great efforts made by the primary Croatian Mines Centre in particular in the past year and relatively good results and with very modest means, I believe that with the overall realization so far and the results achieved in general cannot be fully satisfied, and you will allow me to express my personal dissatisfaction with the situation in the area of Slavonia, and especially the Brodsko-Posavina County from which my colleague LJubica Lalić and Frane Piploić specifically spoke. Namely, from the table on page 4 of this report, it is evident that a significant undermining of the plan is achieved, speaking with... but achieved by general reconnaissance and 10% transfer of the plan by direct demining and technical reconnaissance. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's primary to concentrate on direct demining and technical... This data is essentially best depicted by real demining activity because everything else in general, it's about those surfaces that have been processed for years, 3 years after the processing of which there have been no incidents. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] They're simply thought to be demining. But the table shows that certain environments have gone very badly, and when it comes to Brod-Posavia County, I dare say disastrously. It is good that the increase in demining compared to the previous year was almost 100% because the achievement of the plan as we heard in 2002 was only 14.46%. Last year, 27.7%, so if we start with this analogy, we could reach 50% of the total demining surfaces that are actually demining. This dissatisfaction was also expressed by the County Assembly, as according to the Croatian Mines Centre, it is a total of 161 km square mine suspected areas in the area of Brod-Posavina County. From 1998 to today, everything has been demined with a letter and a number of three kilometers square. I repeat three kilometers of square and technical reconnaissance another 48 kilometers. Dissatisfaction with the state of demining of Brod-Posavina County, which is unfortunately also at the bottom of the scale in the Republic of Croatia because there are 110 km of square indications left and therefore also the council members of the County Assembly pointed out primarily the need for significant acceleration of these activities. The conclusions delivered by the Croatian Mines Centre require, among other things, the acceleration of the completion of the mine-mining strategy in the Republic of Croatia in which the treatment of Brod-Posavina County must be significantly better both in terms of size of surfaces and in demining dynamics, and of course all according to the priority that together with you gentlemen from the Croatian Mines Centre will create professional services of Brod-Posavina County. But in order not to just speak from the position of Brod-Posavina County, unfortunately we are not lonely in this, it is evident that some other environments of the primary Slavonian County are almost identical or slightly better than we have been. In the interest of the more complete security of the citizens of Brod-Posavina County as well as of all other citizens who come into our county, the County Assembly has indicated and appealed to all responsible legal and natural persons to put themselves responsibly to this demining problem that we believe is necessary or necessary to provide financial resources, I repeat the financial resources primarily in the State budget but also in the financial plans of major state systems such as Croatian highways, Croatian forests, Croatian electricity, Croatian Railways, and we will already in the budget of Brod-Posavina County according to the possibilities to maximum provision of the necessary resources. We have also seen the reasons for this condition and of course we cannot accept that reasoning. Or I repeat it already here is about companies that are state-owned, and one of the main tasks of the state is to take care of the even development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, and I would say as defender and as a volunteer of the Homeland War especially about those environments that have brought a huge burden during the Homeland War, and one of these counties is certainly Brodo-Posaviska. Which is the reason for these conclusions of the County Assembly, I think it is visible from all of this, and I especially want to highlight one sad fact that this year, at a distance less than a kilometer from the city center, two pyrotechnics were killed in the demining, and on the banks of the Sava River, a wider area of the city bath, where a large number of fishermen were gathered, who had remained unhurt or had not suffered until then. You can imagine if I could explain, what it would look like for the born of Zagreb to go to Jarun and lose their lives there because that space is still mined. What Jarun Zagreb is, I dare say, is the Polish town of Brod and Posavina County. However, I would have to say a lot to these statistics precisely why I believe as all others that the Croatian Government will, but everyone else mentioned, bear in mind exactly this appeal from Brod-Posavina County as well as other parts of Croatia. The primary and budget planning and I believe that this year will be significantly more generous because it is obviously not a problem of human beings, it is not a problem of knowledge at the Croatian Mines Centre but a primary lack of funds. I see time doesn't allow me to repeat and express the necessary points that are said here in the conclusions, so I fully support them. I hope that children born after the war in these areas that are still under mines won't have to speak to their children and ban them from going to play on the unknown 150 or 200 meters from their houses because there's still a space that's polluted by mine explosives. In the end, allow me a proposal that has one part to do with this debate, which Ljubica Lalic also said. The word is not about our debt not only to the long posavid County of the ship and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the hero of Croatian Air Force, Mr Rudolph Perishin, who died in the military redistribution of the Flash, that in memory of the glorious defensive exploits and everything he but also many others gave in the Homeland War the space where he was destroyed and the remains of the aircraft he managed are still found. And this is the space between the settlements of Pivara, Matčevac, Savski Bok in the area of Brod Posavina County, finally demining. And then arrange as a memorial to the memory of heroic exploits in the Homeland War and a lasting thanks to all those who gave the maximum, and that is their life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21209	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Representative Antun Kavrljevic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then Mr. Representative Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, I wouldn't agree with the colleagues who discussed it before me if it was a good plan. I'm glad it's back to the use of the surface, so the execution of 257% I think that the plan that has this execution is not a real plan. If it were 150% and that 50% could be discussed, then my opinion is not well planned, and an even better pointer when we turn the next table from which it is visible that Virovitical Podravna County 27%, Bjelvarsko bilogorska 1400%, or these others where we have 600, 700, 800% execution. My shipmates and colleagues said that she was neglected, I don't know what to say to me from the Virovitic sublevel, that's the order that was first released in 1991 at 12 months, so 13 years went by and it hasn't been demined yet. Explaining that the plan was not reached in Požega Slavonski, Virovitski podravina County for the following reason. It says, during the general survey, new knowledge of the minimality of mostly forest areas from the plan-based polygons occurred, and it was not possible to achieve an estimated exclusion of areas from mine suspected general results resulting in a failure to achieve the overall plan in these two counties. And the achievement of the plan in the general reconnaissance, for our county 1.3%. 1.3% compared to individual counties with 1700%. And we're talking about some real plan, the area of Virovitic Podravna County dying said that it was released in 91, 99 you were all witnesses of 6 dead hunters, 4 Austrians, two domestics and 10 seriously wounded. With all the stories afterwards will be demined clean up it will not occur. And the day today is a good part of the forest, pastures, waterways smoked- Drenovac-Jakovac and Hum-Popovac still mined. Let's not say the Croatian woods. which in 10 years lose 1 hectare. So every forest in the last 10 years in the area has three, four forests, lost 1 hectare. It's at the lowest price if you look at 200 kunas per cubic bit, and that's over 35 million. So 35 million less for those woods. It's a lot less money for municipalities in the area. Forest rents, they could get. It means my opinion that the plan wasn't realistic. My opinion that Virovitic Podravska County has been neglected again, and I would ask the gentlemen of the Croatian Mine Action Centre to correct it in this year or next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21211	Thank you very much. I would also like to inform you that, according to Article 207, the time has passed for the 10 minutes hearing at 11.07 minutes. Now Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21212	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished representatives of the ministry, and the Government, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We have a report on the implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent funds for 2003. This report has raised special interest in 14 counties, where mines are located, which require implementation of a demining plan for Croatia's state space. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has established a Croatian Mine Action Centre as a public institution by its regulation since February 1998, with the task of managing and coordinating all activities in the system of mine action, which is a set of activities aimed at addressing mine problems and their consequences. The National Mine Action Programme in the Republic of Croatia adopted the Parliament on 7 October 2000 with the ultimate goal of liberating Croatia from mine danger by 2010. In 2003, funds amounting to HRK 308 million were planned, which should have been sufficient to demining the planned surfaces, making the entire information system, and public education and assistance to mine victims. This report shows that the community was returned to use in 2003 by 284 million square meters, representing a 257% achievement compared to the plan. If we were to look at only this information then we would certainly have to be more than satisfied with what was done in relation to the planned respecting the available funds that were. The plan was not achieved in Požeško Slavonska, Virovitica-Podravska County for one reason, in Brod-Posavina County for other reasons, and since I come from Brod-Posavina County, where in this year we had 4 victims of mines in Slavonski Brod, of which unfortunately 3 fatalities, as Slavonac, I am not pleased that something always breaks in Slavonian counties. It particularly bothers me that minefields are located almost in the town of Slavonski Brod, where, with a city of more than 80,000 inhabitants, this must be a priority in demining in 2004. Also, our two municipalities of Dragalić and Stara Gradiška are in a similar position as the surroundings of Slavonski Brod, and we are concerned that in 2003, in the area of Brod-Posavina County, a direct demining of reliable mined areas was demining 654.938 m2, and this year, until 31.8. only 132.525 m2. Overall, the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2003 certainly deserves every commendation, but I appeal that by the end of this year they do even more for the Brod-Posavina County. I also call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to plan, in the 2005 budget, to allocate more funds to the demining programme so that, at least in security conditions, when we can't already be in economics, we can equalise as many living conditions with other regions in Croatia. The danger of mines will not only be significantly reduced by markings and educations, but we will achieve the only security when we remove all mines in Croatia, and this will require much greater funds, much more investment, which will require a consensus of all parliamentary parties in which I have no doubt that we will achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21213	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Representative Josip Djakic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then, Mr. Representative Niko Rebic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21214	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, gentlemen from the center, colleagues and colleagues. We can conclude that Croatia today is among the 10 most enigmatic countries in the world. It best speaks of the hatred of those who wanted to conquer us and stop our path to independence and freedom. Millions and millions of square meters of ours are filled with mines and mine-explosives. The consequences are terrible. So, even after the war is over in those places, it gets hurt. So to this day we have hundreds of dead civilians, children and adults, and as we can see, the deaths and the pyrotechnics. As this harsh reality with mine fields looks, I will try to illustrate our Split-Dalmatia County. Split-Dalmatia County is not the best example, because although it is the largest county in space, only a small part was occupied during the Homeland War. Only two units of local self-government were under enemy occupation. The town of Velika in full and the municipality of Hrvatce in part. And what did the enemy leave behind? And what are the consequences? Finally marking mine suspected space is under way and it is almost certain that 15 million m2 will exceed the area of our county. Up to now, 3,728,000 m2 has been demined. A review of the number of victims after the degree of injury in Split-Dalmatia County shows: a total of 31 people were injured, 1 persons were injured without injury, 6 people were injured, 8 persons with severe injuries, and 16 people were killed by boredom. I think this best says how dangerous and insidious evil it is, but it is also visible, and we should never forget, the character of those who have committed aggression on our country and fortunately that we have defeated them. How long we will suffer and suffer the consequences of the mined space most depends on ourselves how seriously we will approach the problem of mines, and, of course, on financial opportunities, by means of our own resources, donations and funds from public companies. But let's not kid ourselves. We will mostly do all the work of cleaning up space from mine-explosive resources ourselves from this country's budget and donations from the public and private businesses of this country, because of all the so far visible and also from the demining plan for 2004, the total planned funds are 381 million, of which 150 million kuna is planned from the state budget, 161 million kuna from public enterprises, and only 70 million kuna from donations. If we know that so far the international community and all humanitarian associations and foundations have participated in financing demining with about 13-15% with a trend as time goes by, these funds are also being reduced rapidly. From this, we can conclude, so nothing new has happened, what happened and in the restoration of the war of the victims. So, those who watch over the state of human rights, the return of refugees, those who could prevent war and for this evil bear a great deal of guilt, have not shown themselves even in the restoration of this country, will not prove to be demining, and therefore give us lessons, even though we are aware, and this report shows that we are very aware, Croatia should finish demining by 2010. That's realistic, of course we'll do it for the taxpayers of this country. Word, two to say who are the men who are working on demining. They're mostly our people, people who have been through war defending this country. Now they're professionals, otherwise they wouldn't be busy, so they work as professionals, but what I want to say is, they're mostly young people, they don't save themselves in the war, they die today cleaning the land from mines. In this year several of them have already died and I say they will come and in 2010 very soon, and let's not let that happen, let's not let these people be extras in their country, figure out a future with work, not feel rejected or retired. Such people should continue to build, and it is up to us to figure out how and how they will participate most in the construction and construction of our homeland. And in the end, this statement, so what's the demining statement in 2003? If the plan is double-crossed, I still think it should be welcomed and accepted, because it's a high-quality job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21215	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Damir Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, gentlemen of the CROMAC, I welcome you all, colleagues and colleagues. So given that we already fit well even in our statements, I will only briefly look back at the report, but also what concerns the area of Požega-Slavon County from which I come. First of all, I have to express my satisfaction about reducing the loss of our pyrotechnics, and I'll be glad if there's no one next year, no one gets killed by mine explosives. I can speak of the mine problem personally and officially, given that in the war I myself suffered from a landmine, but also officially acting as a job I did in the past term. There's been a lot of talk here about statistics, I don't want to talk about statistics here, but I'd like to say demining for areas of special state interest soon, is life, economy and staying, and therefore living standards. So I stress, this report is the basis for the future of the areas that we talked about yesterday and that we need to talk about more and more, and these are future zones of particular national interest. Because if the problem of mines and minefields is not resolved quickly and qualityly, there will indeed be a departure of people from these areas. So the problem of demining is not money, it's not a lack of funds and our budgets, it's the future and life in these areas. I would especially like to emphasise and emphasise, unfortunately, all the small 10% donations that came from international organisations and I think there should have been more, but there is also one proposal and therefore one guideline for next year's budget, that we need to allocate ourselves more into the 2005 budget. The analysis and structure of the funds for this year we see that a large part of the funds went to the county where the highway was worked, which is logical, but there is no reason to think, first of all, of my Požega-Slavon County did not approve more funds in the area primarily agriculture and forestry. I would like to stress that 60 forest workers in Pakrac would already be employed this year if certain areas in the Pakrac area were to be demined where forest exploitation would be, therefore, a problem which goes directly to the economy and to the standard. Allow me perhaps just two more proposals for the end, which is, therefore, the proposal directly in the design of the programme, so more funds for demining areas, where a number of jobs will be directly opened, which I spoke about earlier. I propose to the government that the next year at least 50% increase the funds for demining, and that's probably what we Parliamentarians will be able to decide, and I don't have time to talk about this simulation, but maybe 0.2% from paid net wages in Croatia for the whole year, which is about 200 million kuna, which is on average salary per month 8 kuna, so that's less than one pack of cigarettes, and in total when we add up all 8 kunas to that 0.2% of net wages paid in Croatia, we'll see ourselves getting close to the total amount this year, almost this year, allocated for demining, is about 200 million kuna. I took note of this report, and I believe that it can be even better, better quality preparation of no reports than preparation for next year because we must be in a hurry because of what is waiting for us in 2007, 2008, which is entering the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21217	I thank Mr. Representative. It is Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The report provided shows that the demining plan of the Croatian state space was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in full. What's more, he's two and a half times exceeded compared to the original plan. Croatia was returned as my predecessors said speakers, over 280 million square meters. General reconnaissance, technical reconnaissance and what is particularly important by demining about 32 million square meters of surface and in this part I join the praises in the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre. Of course, the work and operation of this centre depends directly on the financial means provided. For 2003, they amounted to 308 million kuna, of which 232 million were secured from the state budget. I am talking about the originally secured funds, but later on, the budget rebalances are reduced by 72 million kuna, and this is for covering the effects of the long-term drought and part of what can be accepted, but what I personally cannot accept is that from such an important part, so the demining work for parliamentary elections is actually the rest. So 70 million less compared to the original 2003 budget. As I come from Osijek-Baranja County let me repeat, it is probably known that it is one of the most polluted mines counties in the Republic of Croatia. In Osijek-Baranja County, there are still 177 million square meters below mines, of which 21 million square meters are waste in Osijek. Of course, it is a particular problem in these eastern counties and that it is a mined agricultural land that covers an area of 81 million square meters and which cannot be processed and certainly should not be mentioned what it means for agriculture, peasants and the economy as the Osijek-Baranja County, but also for the whole of Slavonia and Baranja. In the period from 98th to 2003, so over the past six years, in Osijek-Baranja County, a total of just over 17 million square meters has been demined from which more than two million of them are being waste on the city of Osijek. So the demining took place with slow dynamics in such a way that an average demining was 2.8 million square meters, i.e. in the area of the city of Osijek, 350 thousand square meters. I think it's too small. At this point, I would like to remind you that on 7 October 2000, the Croatian Parliament adopted the National Mine Action Programme in the Republic of Croatia whose basic task is to free Croatia from mines to 2010. What would it look like if the demining dynamics were to take place at the present pace? This would mean that Osijek-Baranja County would be freed from mines only for 61 years or 2065. Since in 2003, however, the dynamics relative to the average took a somewhat accelerated pace, as they demined about slightly less than 4 million square meters, then the Osijek-Baranja County in the entire area would be demined in 2048. So if we want to clear the entire area from mines by 2010, I take as an example of Osijek-Baranja County, but of course this applies to others and especially to these counties in the eastern part of Croatia, then we would have to clear the area of 25 million square meters annually, and this would be if we took the average last year's price per square metre of 6.69 kuna should be financially provided about 170 million kuna per year for Osijek-Baranja County. So, we saw from the exposure that there is no better situation in Brod-Posavina, or in Požega-Slavonska or Virovitski County, and if we also point out that with this dynamic, we will not be able to achieve the basic goal of the national programme, which is Croatia without mines until 2010. As the only solution, the whole demining process is forced to intensify and this means increasing and providing financial resources for these purposes. Of course, by understanding all the difficulties associated with the state budget and the insufficient financial resources, I believe that significant finances can be provided from pre-accession European Union funds, greater betrayal from state-owned public enterprises such as Croatian Waters, Croatian Roads, Croatian Forests, as well as from the end-of-the-line funds of donors, as well as from the World Bank for the Reconstruction of Eastern Slavonia. Finally, I would like to point out once again the extremely difficult situation regarding mine pollution in Osijek-Baranja County, especially the large areas of farmland, the potential for mine-based processing, which poses a serious obstacle to the agricultural and economic development of this part of Croatia. Since much of Slavonia and Baranja is an area of special state concern or of particular state interest, I think it is perfectly justified to seek and demand that regular and sufficient resources be provided for the demining period of this division in order to enable Slavonia and Baranja, in full, from mine explosives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21219	Thank you. Replica is a respected representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21220	Thank you very much. I fully agree with my colleague that we actually need to come closer to this problem more realistically and that it is difficult to expect that the ambitious plan for the overall demining of Croatia will be ensured by 2010 which you can normally never plan well because the results will only show up and show the right things. But what needs to be pointed out, other than what most of us here are talking about, therefore, about this dimension of demining, is humanitarian demining. We need to talk about that demining has another component that's business. The demining is still business, in demining depends on how much you will be square of the demining area, what quality it will be, and at first you have in that group of different lobbys. I simply think that we need to define ourselves in the future whether demining will be treated more or more primarily as humanitarian, or whether it's part of the state, or whether we're going to let the market enter. I personally think that time is going on and the trends show that there will be less and less donations and that we will have to rely more and more on our own strengths. And that's actually what plans should be taken care of and based on. I'm not even sure about it, my colleague was talking about prices, how much is it really that is the low price of squares, how favourable it is. I warn you that we have had several situations that have occurred incidents in areas that have been demining. Therefore, I think that both surveillance and inspections must play a greater and special role. Why does a state firm have much less work today than it had before, because the state firm is doing my best to pay all its obligations and simply it cannot compete with private companies that can do something different and break prices. And then it's about what we call what we didn't talk about and we just mentioned the position of pyrotechnics in Croatia today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21221	Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21222	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The problem of mine-explosive dangers is one of the greatest in both the war and most of all after the release and after the war. We today have a report on the work of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in 2003 but it is also an opportunity to say something and mention the general problem of mine pollution and demining problems in Croatia. 14 out of 21 Croatian County and 111 municipalities and cities have this big problem. The particular danger right after the war was the return of people to see where they were driven from, and unfortunately in theirs I would say almost to adventures many have lost their lives. One of the counties that has been polluted by mine-explosive means is, of course, also the carlova County, which has been occupied on over 50% of its territory and along the length of the 120km of the battlefield. From 1991 to today, 278 people were killed by mines, 58 of which were fatal. Most of these victims were civilians who were killed in their gardens, fields, and forests. The next major problem is the functioning of life in such areas since 60% of the population in the formerly occupied area deals with agriculture either as a basic or as a secondary activity. And the problem of demining or solving the problem of demining began, of course, right after the war, in different ways, by hiring special units of the Ministry of Interior, engineering units of the Croatian Army and afterwards by establishing AKD Mungos. Only in 1998, with the draft Croatian Mine Action Centre, the job began to work in a way that was coordinated in one place. As a result, there may have been a delay in the demining process in the year 98, but it was accelerated later in the coming years and has reached this pace at which it is today. The plan for last year, as we saw from the Report of the Croatian Mine Action Centre in total, was realised with 256% compared to the plan but I think we should still see what was really done by that segment called the general survey. The general survey was carried out with 308% but the really concrete demining and technical reconnaissance after the job done with a much smaller percentage. In Karlovac County, the percentage is only 73.7 compared to the planned area. The amount of surface to be demined or demined primarily depends on how much funds are provided for those purposes. I think we must all express regret together that in two times during 2003, in the mandate of the previous Government, the state budget at the position of the secured demining funds reduced the amount. So it is that compared to the last plan item, the achievement of 99%, but compared to the originally planned item of 232 million kuna, the achievement of these funds is only 68%. Therefore, it is not necessary to blame the staff of the Mine Action Centre who, of course, used what was available to them. And I think that we and everyone together should stop glerifying and make a lot of reference or praise for donors and donations. Of course, every donated kuna, every donated euro or dollar is really welcome, but all these figures show that you need to rely primarily on your own strength, on your own pocket, because it's the largest share of the funds from which you can be provided. No one will provide us with demining except for Croatia's state, our budget, public enterprises. In order not to be misunderstood, of course, with all due thanks and for the least help that any government or humanitarian organisation has contributed. If, therefore, we want Croatia without mines by 2010, then, regardless of party colors, it must be of common interest to increase the demining position in the state budget. I am personally skeptical of the possibility of providing more significant funds for these purposes from the budget, cities, municipalities or counties, because unfortunately it is cities and municipalities that are damaged, which are disabled by having mines in their territory and they belong to areas of special state concern and these are municipalities, cities that have small or too little budgets to be burdened with the additional need, with additional funds for demining. I think this report should be accepted, it is one chronology, a report of the figures from what was done during 2003, and I am sure that also colleagues from the Mine Action Centre, from the Council of the Centre and the Government, on the basis of what has been said today in the debates, will further improve and speed up the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21223	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21224	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary, colleagues from the Mine Action Centre. Allow me first of all to warmly greet you, here is my first appearance in this House of Commons. And here's to wish you and all of us a successful cooperation. The theme we're talking about here today is a lot about the work I've been doing in the Croatian Forests so far. Since the forests that are still the least demining of all objects in Croatia and here in, I must say that despite the excellent cooperation we had with the Croatian Mine Action Centre and other institutions participating in demining, it is still, according to our indicators, that mine suspicion record is somewhere around 180 thousand hectares, which is practically close to some 9% of the state forest area in the Republic of Croatia. In recent years, as a Croatian forest, one of the state-owned companies, we have participated in demining funds. On average, it was somewhere between 5 and 10 million kunas with those assets we could mine about 600 thousand square meters. At this pace, we ourselves as Croatian forests would not be able to demining the entire mine area under which the forests are still and therefore I appeal to all of us and especially fellow MPs to provide for as much funding in the state budget as possible for next year. Whether we find it through the budget or through certain other species as a proposal that I have heard here from fellow Spanishmen from certain fields for which we would be given but the concern of demining must be common to all of us. I'd like to cite this opportunity and what they are, for example. only Croatian forests have lost during this time because they cannot master the entire surface. It's about three years old... The wood mass, it's about the inability to rejuvenate the forest on that part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So if I were to talk about how much it does to the stage, I'd say it's about 10 grand or maybe more workers who would work for a year on the job of cutting, making on those surfaces that are not enough. Also given that it is necessary to rejuvenate the forest on the ground which are... which are inaccessible to perform certain works, the problem is that we will find a bad situation when we get to those surfaces that experience has shown us so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to give an example that happened to us where we demined certain areas ourselves in one of our counties. After that and the assembly of that county, we declared the section demining a protected area and thus lost that area again from regular management. When they were mined, no one asked for that surface, and since we demined it, it immediately became interesting to others. There would also be a lot of talk and I say, and a lot of problems especially because today's forest worker, I speak, the one who works in the Croatian forests and often exposed to these influences where he doesn't know 100% where these areas are completely mined. We are trying here, here's cooperation with Centro, and I really have to point out this opportunity, and once again, I want to commend them for their cooperation because they're really mine-making, and by doing this, I'm going to take that surface down considerably, and then I'm going to make it possible to do a better job. And in this part here and this year 10 million kunas are foreseen in the resources of the Croatian Forests, and I know that this process is already under way and that the operations of demining these surfaces are being carried out. Finally, I would like to invite all of us who can participate in any way to allocate a significant part of the funds and allow the Croatian Centre to do this job that we think should be done as soon as possible and that is Croatia without mines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21225	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative have a final say? State Secrets to the Ministry of the Interior, Ivica Buconjic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have been carefully serving all the remarks and I would just like to say what some MPs may have misunderstood the Government cannot be satisfied with this report, namely, until a Croatian resident simply has no reason to be satisfied. This report was primarily statisticalally to show what the current situation was and what trends in demining were during last year. There have been some shifts, however, it is evident that there have been some problems, above all, in the unequality of the demining process in certain counties. Then it was not safe that during last year, the rebalancing funds were reduced for demining due to the conduct of the elections, and no longer will such things happen. In conclusion, what can be said safely until one man, until their lives and fates are only statistical data will be a place of pleasure in the Republic of Croatia. We are also aware that huge economic potentials have been blocked. Above all, agricultural land and forests, and this is what is most tragic again in those areas that have already suffered most severely in the war so that practically this demining problem only prolongs the further agony of these areas and these people who have already paid a very expensive price in the course of the Homeland War. And what's also one of the current problems is the status of pyrotechnics. We are aware that this status should be better. However, you yourself have commented and noticed that we are practically exposed to an absurd contradictory situation that prices fall which certainly affects the status of pyrotechnicians negatively because it is hard to believe that in such a sensitive area everything can only be left to market mechanisms because it certainly also affects the quality of the work done. Unfortunately, if quality in some other jobs is not needed, it does not produce as tragic consequences as unquality in this business. This job must be absolutely certainly done and that area once declared clear of mines must indeed be cleaned because it is the basic prerequisite of one as normal and safe as the life of citizens in those areas. On the basis of this report, the Government will certainly take certain steps and measures to justify or unwarranted any objections that have been raised in your discussions, to see whether this imbalance in demining is justified in certain areas and counties, and to ensure that this procedure takes place primarily in the interests of those areas and those living in that war of severely injured areas. I thank you once again for all your comments, and for your answers, your questions to which you may not have received an answer will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21227	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Next, the vote. The report on the implementation of the demining plan for Croatia's state space and spent financial resources for 2003. Please, it's on. I am voting on the following conclusion: "According to the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as a home working body, the report on the implementation of the Croatian State Space Mine Action Plan and spent financial resources for 2003 is being taken into account." What, for, uh, abstention? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 86 votes in favour, 1 abstention and 13 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21230	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. This report shows that the role of this Committee on Citizens' Presentations and Appeals is to give certain legal assistance to citizens in the exercise of their guaranteed rights. In addition, it is clear that this Committee is also in one respect and the corrective and control of the work of certain state and other bodies and institutions to which citizens have certain complaints. Evidence of the existence of one such committee is also justified by the number of submissions and complaints received, and the report shows that these complaints were more than 2000 in 2003. The fact is also that it is true in this report that, in addition to existential problems, citizens face certain problems that they have tried to solve before the relevant institutions in the past, but are simply driven to the wall and have not, in their own opinion, been able to resolve their rights. In addition to certain existential problems that are most often, meaning from small pensions, poor property situations we see that there are many common and problems for the employees of the Ministry of the Interior. These were the most performances available over the past years, especially the difficult material problems of their families. It is also a very common problem and the longevity of judicial and administrative proceedings as well as the possibility of enforcement of already passed judicial and executive decisions. There are also ownership and legal relations regarding the return of property, cases of the exercise of the rights of Croatian defenders, the inability to buy apartments, the holder of tenancy rights related to the Ljubljanska banka, the problem of the return of nationalised and configured buildings and of illegal construction. In the frequency of all these complaints and problems, it can be read precisely which topics should be addressed in the future and which the authorities are facing either because of bad laws, non-compliance with legal regulations or the tromitude of certain state bodies. It is also obvious that part of the complaints received is unfounded. But I am also the number of complaints that have arrived at the work of certain bodies clearly show that there is still something wrong with the work of these competent institutions and that the executive power in the Republic should be dealt with in the near future. There you also have a classed structure of performances according to certain areas by frequency as they arrive. These are, as I have already said, housing-communal businesses, property-legal relations which are also in the phase of resolving particularly the reconstruction and housing of returnees living in housing, planning and the deadline for solving these problems is the end of 2004. It is also a common health-social problem and the work of local self-government courts and work and work relations. This report also shows a description of the specific cases which the Committee dealt with in 2003 also with the measures taken by the Committee of course under its powers. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21231	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's a HNS rep club. Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic. He's gone. He's losing his word in this case. HSP club. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21232	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! The HSP Club supports the Committee's report. We think it's high-quality. Everything the Committee has dealt with over the past period has been stated, but we also have to speak here again as the Vice-President of the Committee has said that this report points to very important matters for the legal security of citizens, for the functioning of the rule of law, for the work of the state administration and for the work of the judicial authority. From this point on, it is evident that everything from year to year is increasing from day to day in number of performances and complaints. It's a good thing this house has one body like that. We know that it is normally limited to how it can only be debated in situations where there has been a violation of the law, it has to determine that. But we really need to worry about how our rule of law works because this report proves it and it is obvious that the government must take further steps as to how well the Prime Minister has said that the state administration must be in the position of citizens, the service of citizens. Unfortunately, we're still far from there to be. That, if a citizen has the right to receive the answer in due time, that the citizen must be timely informed, referred to how, how to exercise his rights. And from all of this, we're coming back to that second conclusion, and I'm probably saying it the 27th time, but we're not doing this part of the law. We have beautiful laws that have both normatively and substancefully solved all the important issues, but we come to the worst and that is not the implementation of those laws. We must be well concerned here and again the government is obliged, and we too must take measures to implement these laws. All these laws also show the situation, which we do not follow, we would have to have one thematic debate about all of it, we in laws also establish the obligation to adopt sublegal regulations, whether it is said that it will do so by government, different ministries. And according to one of our mild analyses, we came to the conclusion that those deadlines in which they were told, they gave it six months, three months, after six months, that no one actually adhered to them. And again this legal uncertainty is being created, the law you have passed a good, quality law but not all implementation mechanisms are being solved and we are coming back to that variant that this law is not being implemented. And we also have to here like the Committee worked, do a lot of things to really protect the rights of ordinary people, because ordinary people and don't know what their rights are on the one hand, on the other hand, they're administration is such that they catch them in a sacrifice and they have to break one, the other, the third door. And then he goes back in circles and goes from the beginning. Therefore, these are the things that the government of the Republic of Croatia has to take care of, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has taken these measures, which the Prime Minister said well, 12 months last year, what should be done and how it should be done. But it's visible from all this that it's going slowly. And that it does not go in such a way that citizens can simply exercise their rights. I would also suggest, on behalf of the HSPa Club, that this House also hold a very high debate on the functioning of the rule of law, and the implementation of the rules. Because you'll be surprised yourself when the view of so many other sublaws has not been passed. And the analyses that ours refer to from different cases, different areas so that man can't essentially prevent him and file a request. And that the authorities of the state administration do not act on official duty there when it should act on such examples is countless. Because every request to be submitted to the body of the state administration, paid is recorded, taxed, and that part of the body of the state administration should have, by official duty, been made to obtain the documents of the eyewitnesses, as is the case with the residence, if a person has been punished. Property, cadastre, and everything else. And again, she's forcing the party to do all this, and she's paying again. Therefore, I support this report and we are committed to holding a full debate on the functioning of the rule of law, the legal certainty of citizens and the protection of citizens' rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21233	Thank you. Honorable representative Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21234	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. When I read this report, we must be aware that we all swear to the rule of law. And all of us are full of the mouths of the rule of law, but when we see what the citizens of this country are facing then they simply come often to the wall when they no longer know who to turn to, and as the last straw, they are saved by the Parliamentary Committee for Presentations and Appeals. I must stress that in this session I am one of the members of the Committee that I am pleasantly surprised by the way this Committee is working. And hope with which people come to the Committee itself. But what worries is that when we look at this final consideration, it is how ineffective the rule of law in Croatia is. What must especially hurt all of us and some of the parts most people complain about in the first place is slowness, inadmissible slowness of the courts. People seek the protection of the state then and that is, protection from the court when they simply exhaust all normal possibilities to go to court. However, there are equally and clearly more equal. We are also aware that there have been several cases in Croatia lately, where divorce cases are both promiscuously and in the case of divorce cases, about everything within 48 stops, debates are scheduled and verdicts are passed. The people who appear to us on the Committee are people who have lost all hope because after a decade and several years of litigation, it seems to me to be a good practice that the Constitutional Court has finally begun to grant financial compensation to those who have been unjustly tried for a long time. On the other hand, what particularly hurts, of course we didn't do much in court because we were going to reform the judiciary, but apparently that neither the government has passed nor the parliamentary majority passed, has managed unfortunately, nor has this one yet launched a judicial reform that such things are being resolved more quickly and better. The second thing that all of us must worry about is often the silence of the administration. People also complain that they leave requests, or simply because of the silence of the administration, they pass certain deadlines, often leaving even court requests to receive certain documents to make court proceedings faster and more quality. This refers in particular to regret, in part, to the Ministry of Defence, where some housing problems are deafened and some documents are not wanted. And the question is to all of us, what can a parlametre and what can the government do to avoid the silence of the administration, i.e., that those who have not forgiven for a long time do not give the necessary documents to our citizens to simply punish them. You didn't even deserve to work in the state administration. At the end of our presentation here we had several cases that were given as characteristic, it seems to me that one of me is particularly sick, among all you know every case when he comes to the Committee meeting is painful in his own way. We must admit to ourselves there are also cases that simply come before the Committee in terms of performances and complaints, perhaps as characteristic and show that a good part of the people because of the inability to pay lawyers and everything else, means because of ignorance their actions are being dragged away for years. There are also where the Committee managed to speed up the process itself. However, it is interesting under regular number 13, which is characteristic of the fact that one person from Zagreb was admitted to the state service as a trainee of the Ministry of Finance. The ministry's second-degree solution lost the status of the trainees because it cited a false fact that a criminal investigation was conducted against him. He, objecting to a second-degree solution, submitted a confirmation of impunity, non-compliance with criminal proceedings, however, he was not returned to the state service, however. And it has also been shown that the person who forged the IDs has been working in the ministry today. That's what we all have to fight. That's why I think and suggest colleagues and colleagues to accept this report. But also to see what is possible in the conclusions regarding this report, to contribute that what directly affects this high House can be a direct impact on the speedy reform of the judiciary, to make decisions to speed up further reform of the state administration, so that there is no unnecessary and unnecessarily silent administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21235	Thank you. Honorable representative Irena Ahel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21236	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the Committee, I support the report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2003. I believe that the Committee's work is very important because it points to the observed irregularities in the application of legal regulations and citizens' rights in the procedure before the state administration and bodies with public authority. In the period covered by the report, the Committee, as mentioned, held 6 sessions, received 1020 presentations and complaints. I've had 600 phone calls, you've been received by 480 citizens. This points to the great interest of the citizens who address the Committee and seek help in solving their problems. The presentations and complaints of citizens are very different content, and there are almost no areas and problems that are not touched by performances. The report shows that the Committee addresses a large number of pensioners seeking help in solving their existential problems. This tells us that we need to pay more attention to this problem. The length of court proceedings and administrative procedures are also common subjects of citizens' representations, and the Committee is very often acting in a way that helps citizens to speed up these processes. Ownership and return of property is also an area from which a large number of performances arrive. It all turns out that the government has not done enough over the past period to improve the work of courts and the handling of land books, as well as to arrange the work of grantovnica. We also see from the report that citizens' performances are rarely related to illegal construction, and I hope that the new Construction Act that we have adopted will make a significant contribution to the introduction of order in this area. I support this work report and I also hope that this year the Committee will help our citizens with their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21237	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozica Šolić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21238	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. In 2003, the Committee carried out its tasks in the field of reception and handling of performances and complaints, and contacted the parties directly in the premises of the Croatian Parliament. During the said period, the work of the Committee was primarily aimed at providing legal assistance to citizens in achieving the Constitution and the law laid down rights before state authorities. The number of complaints received, or performances, was extremely large, around 1.020, and was related to the various unfulfilled rights of citizens in state administration bodies. However, it is the largest number of complaints, it can be reduced to several areas, so it is also structurally this report. From the very number of complaints, as well as their structures are obviously problems in the functioning of certain parts of the state administration, local self-government, and judicial bodies. This applies first and foremost to impunity in addressing citizens' demands especially in the area of property-legislative relations, housing-communal affairs, social and health care, the work of courts and local self-government, and the areas of labour relations. The report itself did not provide data on the behaviour of the state authorities after the complaints were sent to them. However, the report shall contain a description of the specific cases of complaints and the presentations sent to the Committee, which shall include the actions taken by the Committee and the outcome of the resolution of the bodies to which the complaints have been forwarded. The analysis of these cases can conclude that, in the said period, we are talking about 2003, in the largest number of cases, the state authorities have not acted without a spot after the request of the Committee, nor are they in the rule of reading the Committee on the state of the settlement of concrete complaints. I believe that a report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2003 should be adopted, but it is necessary for the authorities of the State to establish the reasons for the unscheduled resolution of citizens' demands in the past period and to take measures towards those who have not taken responsibility and made an up-to-date approach to the citizens, i.e. the taxpayers who pay them, pay for the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21239	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2003. Please come in. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals for 2003 is accepted". Please vote. I'm asking for a result. It is found that with 98 votes for, 1 abstention and 1 against the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21242	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, esteemed gentlemen MPs. In the report before you, which concerns the work of the Energy Regulatory Council in 2003, we have a bit of a shift in current developments and progress, but it is the obligation of the Energy Regulatory Council to submit its report on its work, but also observations that are important for the development of the energy market and public services in the Republic of Croatia. What marked the work in 2003, we can dominantly say that it was a full and complete year of work of the Energy Regulatory Council. In the middle of last year, the Council began a very complex, very complicated business of issuing permits to carry out energy activities, when we received hundreds of thousands of documents. With some pride, I can say that we are currently in the process of how it is imagined to bring it to an end, which means that we have licensed, or issued, permits for energy entities in the Republic of Croatia. Without that authorisation, no energy activity of 22 mentioned in the energy law, or, excuse me, there are, there are exceptions, cannot be carried out. In this report, we gave a presentation of those disputed situations, those disputed cases, when things are in a certain way unclear, according to current regulations, and they are dominantly related and related to action and action, i.e. the work of private persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, or craftsmen. As regards other segments, it is important to point out that in 2003, the Council entered into application and acted, that is to say, made and decided in connection with the tariff systems adopted in 2002, when unfortunately all the shortcomings of these documents, which were adopted at the time, and not until the end of the gap of relations, could, however, be assessed as being in some way limited to further market development, the introduction of markets in the Republic of Croatia, the process of restructuring of energy entities and the final treatment of the Regulatory Council when in fact in some situations we were unable to defend the interests of industry, i.e. businesses, and on the other hand, the interests of customers. In other words, we consider and here we have today decided on the price for gas supply and pointed to the need as urgently as possible and as necessary to complete these documents in order for the Council to act in a transparent and transparent manner, in fact until the end in a law-based way. The Board of Regulators also dealt with dispute resolution and in the first phase we took over the resolution of customer and complaint requirements until committees were established with each energy entity under the Consumer Protection Act. Of course, we now share these responsibilities and all that work with these committees, trying naturally to defend both sides. There are always two sides to the market. So the party to the subject, the side of the person who's interested and the party to the consumer. What we failed to end in 2003 to end, i.e. to bring the end to the way it was prescribed, were dismembering relations by the tariff system, and on the other hand installing entities that would be the basis or key for the introduction of the market in the Republic of Croatia, which is the primary question of the relationship between the management of councils in relation to monopolies, such as the transmission of electricity, electricity distribution, gas transport and oil transport. In the transport of gas, we have been able to fully align the routes with the subject and get all relevant information, i.e. the basis for our treatment. I must point out that the council is, I say it was the first year of the Council's work, so we have dealt with the problem of lack or incomplete profession, incompletely defined competences in terms of what the law says, or sublegal documents. It is also a matter of financial relations, because for 2002 we received confirmation and agreement on our financial plan, however this was not the case for 2003. As a council, we have participated in the development of a series of sublegal documents, because the council is primarily, although it is an arbiter, it must be an expert body and we have tried with all our capacities to make every effort to all the competent ministries, or bodies to be useful and always make written remarks and work. And we also had a series of contacts at international level, we are involved in the work of regulatory bodies. The most recent ones we are participating in the work of the European Regulators Association, so they are today accepting and calling on us not to say in the status of all those countries that have already been admitted, i.e. which have received a formal response, so they are also ongoing with inclusion. What is important and what I should point out and what I think should be pointed out on this occasion, and this is a question of development and the state of development of the energy market for public services. I said earlier that we were unable to bring the situation to an end and clear up the situation in tariff systems simply because such tariff systems are all defined at one stage and later it would be practically impossible to separate the components. We managed, however, to enable the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia to define fees for the use of the transmission distribution network, leaving in fact the rest to cover all other activities which, of course, led the energy entity to one situation or to us or market participants, that they were either unable to participate, or to consume their right to participate in the market. We think of it as a matter of urgency. There are technical bases and organisational issues, however, the Board of Regulators considers that this is of secondary importance, is not a question of where it will be and how it will be but a question of how and how it will be achieved, i.e. to ensure the right of energy entities as long as it has, of course, to participate in the market in a transparent manner. As far as gas and gas sector organisations are concerned, to a significant extent, the organisation is set up according to the laws and rules adopted under the European Union directives, but what we have objectively, we have a monopoly on the primary side, we have contracts where INA covers and represents distributors, we have a situation that only recently gas distributors have come out of the scope of the municipal law and that a huge space of unresolved things is opened, it is a matter of connection compensation, a matter of tariff systems, and I believe that in this respect everything needs to be done that part as soon as possible, otherwise we will have potential things or consequences of long-term and inconspicuous. As far as oil and petroleum products are concerned, it is well known to be the basis of the formula to be applied and controlled by the Ministry of Economy, i.e. the competent Ministry of Economy. So we can say that to a significant extent this sector can be assessed positively in this regard. Inclusion and what is more important, here is also referred to, i.e. pointing to this problem, not actually the problem of the process, which is including it in the regional markets and all it brings. The Board of Regulators is deeply in the view that, of course, the policymaker is the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, the Board of Regulators is only the enforcer of expert or arbitration. In any case, only in the policy frameworks that are defined and only we follow, and we think and we believe that this should be defined as quickly as possible and as fully as possible, simply to make it purely transparent, and ultimately to the benefit and interest of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. all entities and consumers in the Republic of Croatia. Heat energy, which is currently under way, is the process of passing the right law, and we believe that not only the law and the sublaws and the tariff system need to be passed as soon as possible in order to bring as little controversy into the regulation of the sector as possible, means that we do not repeat the mistakes we had earlier. Here's about one review and I'm open to your questions and available for answers. If necessary, I will be happy to do so for every detail of this item.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21243	I would like to thank the motionary's representative, Mr. Klepa. You can sit in your seat. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Kresimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21244	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here are a few words on the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations which are important for the development of the energy market for public services. The reform and restructuring of the energy sector, which includes electricity, production, transmission and distribution, heat energy, gas and transport, oil and oil products, is extremely complex and important because it represents the fundamental infrastructure of each country. The opening of energy markets and in particular the reform of the electricity sector is an extremely complex task, most likely one of the most complex tasks facing the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia so far. It is necessary to introduce entirely new organisational forms and market conditions and relations and to define new entities and to establish a completely new regulatory and other regulation in the energy sector. That this task is not at all simple to show the examples and problems faced by much more developed countries that have a rich tradition in the development of energy markets and market relations, built institutions of social and economic system. The Croatian energy sector has just over two years of experience in introducing market relations in the energy sector. The fulfilment of some formal assumptions for the establishment of a market for different forms of energy, such as the establishment of permits to carry out energy activities, is certainly necessary, but it is not enough. There is a need to build institutional relations between entities in the energy sector, which is particularly important for each country, given that there are no universal solutions but that the models of each country and state are adapted to tradition, heritage, organisation and specific circumstances. It should be borne in mind that the energy sector is just a necessary assumption for the smooth development of the economy and society as a whole and as such is not a purpose for itself but represents as I have highlighted the extremely important infrastructure of each developed society. The Energy Regulatory Council's report shows that it has carried out a number of very important activities both in importance and in scope. As the documents show, further very demanding activities and continued professional engagement at the various tasks of the Energy Action Resolution Council are being followed. It is necessary to consider the need for staffing and organisational restructuring of councils. Certainly, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this very comprehensive and thorough report with an obligation and a request to supplement it with a detailed financial report for 2003. Such a report is necessary for a number of reasons. When such reports are delivered to the Croatian Assembly for consideration, the basic requirement is certainly a transparent and quality breakdown and a demonstration of the income and expenditures of such an institution. I will mention several reasons why it is necessary to insist on supplementing this Report with a quality and detailed financial report. On page 22 of this Report, the Council of Regulators, in a permanent working relationship, employs the Secretary of the Board of Regulators, the Business Secretary and the Accountant, so three persons with such an extremely large range of matters that are important. That's one finding. Second, the funding for the work of the Regulatory Council shall be provided from the following sources, as referred to in Article 1.5, on page 23. As a result of the revenue from carrying out its own activity, it is based on the payment of one-off fees and charges paid by the Council for the regulation of energy activities of the issue of permits to carry out energy activities in accordance with the Energy Act. How much of these funds are not visible from this Report. Furthermore, the Regulatory Council is also financed from an amount of 0,07% of the total annual revenue achieved in the previous year by energy operators carrying out one or more energy activities. Based on the authorisation to carry out the energy activities issued by the Regulatory Council. These energy entities are HEP, INA. It is not difficult to assume that it is very large and significant means, in which way these funds are being spent and distributed would be very important to know when this report is adopted. Furthermore, I will quote parts of Article 1.4, point 4 where it is mentioned about the Board of Regulators but not about the financing of that body. The Regulatory Council has set up a advice on monitoring the application of tariff systems for energy prices and advice on technical issues, regulations and norms. The Board of Regulators shall consist of renowned experts in the field of energy, representatives of energy subjects, state institutions and consumer protection associations helping the work of the Board of Regulators, giving opinions and recommendations on matters covered by the Regulatory Council. Certainly, this very important circle of professionals and experts should somehow be financed, as this report does not show. Furthermore, page 25 discusses the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. The Fund shall carry out the tasks set out in the Law in order to finance the preparation and development of project programmes and similar activities in the area of the conservation of sustainable use of environmental protection and improvement and energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. The Fund should promote the objectives and principles of environmental protection in order to achieve systematic and overall conservation of environmental quality, the conservation of natural communities and the rational use of natural goods and energy. How this fund is financed. Therefore, certainly the HDZ Club holds that this report is extremely important and I would say both in quality and professional terms, but it is not completely and because such a report could be adopted and supported by the Club, it is certainly necessary to have a detailed financial report to see how the Energy Regulatory Council works and in this regard. What revenue looks like the cost structure and how these other institutions are financed, which I mentioned in my Exhibition, such as the Council's advice on regulation and the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21245	I thank Representative Cosic. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable representative Tomcic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21246	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We at the HSS Club highly appreciate that the Energy Regulatory Council wrote in this report and highly appreciate everything that has been done under the given circumstances in 2003. I am saying this primarily because we have a built-up awareness that energy activity in the broadest sense, with knowledge, is actually a key determination of the development of every country and so is the Republic of Croatia. This is why we highly appreciate this report, and we also highly appreciate and respect the complexity of this matter, and I don't think we can comment on everything that's written in this report, the work is extremely complex, and so in my presentation on behalf of the Club, except for these praises and compliments to the Council, I'm going to say a few of our remarks in those parts where we think they are extremely important. I'm going to give a few lines of reference to the part that's talking about renewable energy sources. We especially appreciate your observation that it says completely, that a very important segment in this part of cogeneration is therefore better use of thermal energy in industrial plants. I don't think that only Croatia faces this problem, and some more developed countries that have far more advanced technology face the issue of throwing energy through thermal energy in their facilities. That is why we believe that your very, I would say clear instructions that should be complemented and the legislation seems very logical, acceptable, and that part of course we support. Finally, the question of renewable energy sources, the question of rational energy use and the trace of the country's commitment to development of sustainable development. Of course, it is also on the trail of creating conditions for more rational functioning in all segments, as well as in the energy segment, thus raising the level of efficiency. One day we will face the problem of whether industrial plants or companies have sufficient financial resources to introduce more advanced technologies, etc., whether this imperative can be overcome but I think your suggestion that this should be handled by additional provisions in energy laws in any case we accept. One slight grudge in this report in terms of renewable energy sources. It is not crucial, but we would still like to emphasise that it should be said by the Council that this one should be interrupted, I would say quite a tenorous debate from being clean sources, which is green electricity, which is not, whether it's just power plants up to 5 megawatts or are all power plants. I simply remind myself of the fact that it is omitted to stress that Croatian, all Croatian hydropower plants have actually received a 100% certificate of clean, green energy production. And given that in Croatia, in average hydrological conditions about 50% of electricity is produced in hydroelectric power plants, I think that one such finding and the certificate is obtained from the world's most eminent institutions would not simply be an surplus in this report. What I will address is part of my exposure to the issue of joining the Republic of Croatia in the regional energy market in Southeast Europe, I think it is actually a key issue in terms of the treatment of the Republic of Croatia's energy market. This topic has been updated in the media these days. It has been mentioned in the context of this report in several places, especially where international relations are discussed, international co-operation. We all know together that the Board of Regulators... the associations of the Central and Eastern European Regulatory Authorities, the former Turkish Soviet Union and far east countries based in Budapest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Representatives of the Republic of Croatia or the Board of Regulators participated in all meetings of this association. The establishment of a regional energy market in Southeast Europe has been driven by the European Commission, which proposed that the countries of the region strengthen energy co-operation including the establishment of regional electricity and gas markets. This has to be done according to the adoptions, the rules of the European Union in the region, which is ultimately accepted by the signing of the Memorandum, i.e. the so-called "Temporation". letters of understanding of the letter in Athens on 15 November 2002. I remind you that the signatories of this Memorandum are next to Croatia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Romania, Turkey, Serbia-Montenegro, Macedonia, Kosovo and the European Union, that political participants and signatories were Greece, Italy, Austria and observers Hungary, Moldova and Slovenia. In addition to this memorandum of understanding on the regional energy market and its integration, the EU internal market for what was done on 8 December 2003. This would be activities, regulations, laws, memos on the regional market in which Croatia participates. I think it would be a good idea, among other things, to obtain in this report a slightly more detailed, more professional and clear position that the Council represented on behalf of the Republic of Croatia at international meetings in 2003 on the topic of this regional market. I simply believe that this is important because it is not the independent role of the Regulation Council, it is simply something that the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public must know something about. And I think that story about the formation of a regional market is not yet finished and that the Croatian Parliament will certainly have something to say in that part. In fact, there is one fact that despite the legislative framework adopted in 2001, so-called The energy law package and numerous sub-legislative acts, the electricity market in the Republic of Croatia has not yet functioned in practice, although Croatia's electricity industry has established a Croatian independent system and market operator for the management of the energy system and the organisation of the electricity market, but with the fact that the Council has also well pointed out that this Croatian independent operator was actually founded by the means of the Croatian electricity industry 20 thousand kuna, that all equipment for the operation of the operator is actually in Croatia's electricity industry and that the objective issue of this operator's independence is actually being raised. We, by law in Croatia, have guaranteed that all customers of electricity who spend more than 40 larges per year so that they should have the possibility of free choice of electricity suppliers. It is legally guaranteed to them, but there is no such possibility because every city power industry still operates within the group, the HEP group that has been broken into production, distribution and transfer but so far has not allowed any new supplier of electricity to perform on the Croatian market. In such circumstances, when we actually have no experience to compete on the domestic market with some other electricity suppliers except by HEP so that Croatia can function, for example, and what problems it would encounter, in functioning in an integrated European electricity market. And I believe that the concern that arises in professional circles that without this kind of experience in the domestic markets, Croatia could fall into great difficulty on a larger regional market. I believe that an exhaustive expert position on this issue would be necessary to present itself to this House so that the Croatian Parliament can take a clear position on regional association, energy association at least when it comes to electricity. I will give an example that will quite accidentally coincide with the unfavorable events in relation to the Republic of Slovenia but he is strictly of professional character, of energy character, so I do not want to be interpreted in any way to abuse this situation. The example of this one discrepancy with other electricity markets is the issue of harmonised energy use of the Drava River. It is generally very important because the river Drava is using the energy potential of the Drava River Republic of Slovenia even on the basis of an interstate agreement with Austria in 1948. Unfortunately, such an agreement has not been reached between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia which allows the Slovenian side to manage the chain, i.e. the hydropower plant on Drava as part of the Maribor Drava plant system. Of course, in the way most energy suits them. However, it is very interesting that such a performance of Drava power plants is very often caused by certain consequences of three Croatian hydropower plants. And that these situations were entirely possible but that they were happening. Let's say in situations where Croatia asks for intervention imports of electricity and this intervention imports we get right from the Drava power plants of that moment it happens that the actual potential of water potential that we need to use in our three hydropower plants cannot be used because by putting all 8 or part of the hydropower plant, they actually make that potential on our hydropower plants simply unusable. Therefore, I would say that this report should nevertheless stand for something about the need to conclude an interstate agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia on the use of the water potentials of the Drava River. Once again, I stress this has nothing to do with what happened these days at the border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia in Polanija, and in that sense it is not trendy. So we will not, as the Club, propose any specific conclusions, but we hold that on just such examples as the use of the Drava River's water potential and the non-defined relationship of their system 8 power plants with our system downriver 3 power plants, in fact, on the basis of such and similar experiences, the Council subsidises this Assembly, an expert argument that will suggest whether Croatia should enter or plan into the integrated European energy market immediately or under what circumstances. Of course, the HSS Club accepts this kind of report, and with these suggestions, I think there's enough material to carry on even better with modest capacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21247	I thank the esteemed representative Tomcic on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative Zdenka Chuhnil No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[The intruders don't understand.]] Here you go. Come out, come out here for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21248	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed MPs. Like this, I have to say that a little impotes this discussion to me both as President of the Council and as a former dispatcher, what's respected Mr. Tomcic is directly from my experience regarding Drava. I can also say that work on this regulatory market also requires special capacities, requires both of course and special responsibility. We share this responsibility with the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Resolute Ministry, Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. So we're simply going to work together. So I said in the beginning that the Council does not define politics but can only implement it from the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Economy as a resorient and entrepreneurship as a resorient ministry. Thus, the absolute Council has something to say and can contribute but I say we are directed to this one in order to say formal and legal basis. We expect that the directives will soon reach the Council, which means that we will have to adjust. And structure or expand to do so, and tasks will be carried out. It is absolutely on track, or the Council is considering these things that it is actively participating but these are very complex processes. Regarding the organisation of the market, I said the same in the report that without consensus, it is difficult to achieve these things. What is controversial in the organisation of Croatia's electricity industry, the definition of operators is this status of system operator. He's dominant in technical nature. Unfortunately, he blocked the other side of the market operator and set up the markets in such a way that all entities with the appropriate permission can participate. I say these are the things in progress that a member of the European Parliament said while participating in the debate in Rome the other day, he says: “There are many beautiful solutions but every country is going its own way.” In order to resolve this issue and Drava, I, as a former dispatcher, know very precisely what you're talking about, and when it comes to that big power plant in Jertovac, it is important to influence the position of Drava because shutting down my God-given sources doesn't make sense to work out the thermal plant. So that part of the problem can be solved when set up and the operators, when they can officially and without restrictions communicate with the Council in order to be jointly resolved by them in a technical sense, an independent and impartial entity and by the Council as an arbitration officer who empowers and represents and defends and defends both decisions and actions. As regards renewables, the Council absolutely supports and will accept tasks related to renewables. We believe that we can only follow the strategy that has been adopted, adopted at the level of the Republic of Croatia in order to implement that part of ourselves, and it is about registers, it is about accepting projects. The procedure must be clean the way the project enters the Council can no longer be recalled. When a person takes action, the will to decide and raise a hand can not be given up in the next round. Only if all criteria or most key criteria are violated. So the Council is absolutely accepting this mandate, however, unfortunately we do not have a mandate to define these conditions and sublegal acts or regulations. This is on the side of the Ministry of Economy or the competent institutions of the Republic of Croatia. We'd love to and we're always at the center of the discussion and we're helping it, but I say it's pretty important to round it up in a certain way and formally in terms of laws and sublegal acts. These days, the energy community is being discussed as a binding status for this region. Forming, forming several markets, 8.7 pardons in Western Europe. Germany itself will be, to participate in 4 regional markets. To the extent necessary, they have put in place both system operators and regulators and ministries and associations of traders and associations of large industry and those who are interested mean intensive but also European Parliament. So it's a very complex topic, a very complex problem. The capacity, unfortunately, is not sufficient for the Council alone. We are, in any case, prepared all and knowledge and the expert part to put in terms and respond in a timely manner in order to make it possible. Dear Mr. Cosic mentioned a financial report. We submitted a detailed financial report to the Croatian Government on the basis of formal obligations. Of course, it is no problem that this Council must be completely transparent and show every detail, every detail, because we are bound by it, by law. We will gladly do so because the transparent and clean work of the Council is the best defense of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21249	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of National Minorities, the esteemed representative of Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21250	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Council, colleagues and fellow MPs! In the Club of National Minorities, we assess the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council with quality. Since, in addition to the work and activities arising from the law, it is above all noted that the importance of the development of the energy market and public services is then to which extent the necessary implementing rules have been adopted and, unfortunately, on the basis of the energy law package, which is still almost 50% missing and gives an analysis of the energy system's development strategy for a period of 10 years. Croatia has begun to reorganise and regulate the energy sector in particular in the organisation and functioning of network energy systems of electricity, natural gas and thermal energy in order to draw closer to non-European Union energy market relations. Unfortunately, where did we do the least? At least we have done so in the area of renewable energy sources and not only as the predecessors in the area of electricity have said, but also in other areas. The process of joining Croatia to the European Union, the Kyoto Protocol which obliges us to reduce CO2 emissions by 50% by 2010, then our focus on sustainable development, but above all on the liberalisation of the energy market where we are witnessing a systematic or better to say the weekly purchase of oil products, which in particular strengthens the importance of renewable energy sources, and I am not only repeating the electricity that the Council has shown in its report but above all those who are alternative to oil derivatives; biofuels or even more important liquid fuels in transport. And almost 30% of the total fuel in transport is spent in the European Union. Most European countries have also identified in their energy development strategies plans to use renewable sources based on the 1996 Green Paper, which aims to double the share of renewables in total energy, from 6% to 12%. THE 97th White Papers the European Union is working on today. Unfortunately, if we look at what we've done using solar energy almost equal to zero, using wind energy is equal to zero, if we don't take what's being prepared for Pag today. Geothermal sources using zero energy. Unfortunately, the biodiesel is still at zero. The use of renewable elections has also been incorporated into the fundamental energy laws of the Republic of Croatia, but unfortunately little has been brought into line with the European Union and in particular little has been brought into line with the last 2003 directive, i.e. no administrative, legislative and financial measures have been taken that would allow faster development and greater use of renewable energy choices. Especially in implementation. In 2003, as I have already pointed out, the European Union adopted a directive on the use of biofuels in the transmission from part of renewable resources. That obliges member states and candidate countries to join the European Union to have 5.75% of renewable fuels in transit by 2010. Whether it is biodiesel, whether ethanol, which is almost 75 thousand tonnes for Croatia based on current consumption. In addition, the listed countries that were involved in the production and which they directed to agriculture production into the non-food chain of biodiesel production. Croatia, which has unprocessed agricultural areas which has an excess of certain agricultural products with which it has very often major problems, is not interested in this programme. Although today our neighbours even have Sbria, Slovenia Hungary. And what it means once again is that we will have to import biofuels, instead of our own production and our capacities are far away for exporting The promotion of the use of biofuels is for sustainable management and it is in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union, which creates new opportunities for the development of rural areas. The increase in the share of biofuels depends on the availability of sources and raw materials. We have hundreds of thousands of unprocessed land, we have technical, technological opportunities to produce raw materials, 20% of the waste forest mass we throw away. Which we miss. The national promotion policy was fuel as seen. The first incentive through these programmes through support for agriculture, and we have no tax policy. The lack of implementing regulations and acts for renewables and environmental protection, which should surely have already been processed by the Environmental Protection Fund. Since the use of renewable energy sources is embedded in the basic laws governing the energy system, and the market in the Republic of Croatia, I stress that all necessary administrative, legislative and financial measures should be taken, which will allow faster development and significant use of renewable energy, to be brought into line with the European Union. Which will also make it easier for us to use financial funds designed to restructure agriculture. Surely in the observations it was necessary to point to this segment as well. Otherwise, the National Minority Club report fully accepts and will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21251	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council which is of the importance of the energy market and public services in the Republic of Croatia. The SDP Club is studying the report with due and significant attention and will vote in favour of accepting this report. The Energy Regulatory Council was founded in the wake of the reform of Croatia's energy system in July 2000. It is one of the major reforms launched for the mandate of the previous Government of the Republic of Croatia. The reforms of this system stem from the very importance of energy for the entire economy, for the standard of the population and for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The energy price for it is accessible, stable and safe and affecting the development of the economy and the standard of citizens more than any other product. In an industrial society, but also in a post-industrial society, energy had meaning for machines and devices like food for people. Energy has an extremely high level of power, you can say, deciding political importance. Industrial civilization developed on fossil fuel energy. Carbon, oil, gas and electricity. The real rulers in each of these eras were those who controlled or controlled energy. Control of production, transmission and distribution of energy in Croatia had a state and still has one. The energy sector has all been considered a natural state monopoly until recently. Only since the last reform of the previous government has that understanding changed. The end-user did not have the option of selecting suppliers or individual services, unfortunately we have found in this debate that it is still the case. Without this possibility, it won't be much use to the energy slogans carefully. The development of the energy market, organisational and ownership relations has not developed in any country according to predetermined uniform rules. A higher degree of uniformity has been achieved only at technical level. And those elements that required standardization of production to exchange energy. All others exist, for everything else there are special national solutions I hope that will be so in the Republic of Croatia. All European Union countries have taken the obligation to change relations in the energy sector, according to agreed common standards and rules laid down in the European Union directives in the context of national solutions. The reform of the energy system in the European Union began in 97, with a directive on the liberalisation of the energy market of the Member States of the Union in force. Regulation of minimum requirements for the opening of the gas market of all Member States of the European Union. The Directives lay down minimum requirements for the opening of the energy market, and that is one of the essential elements of the European Union. With regard to competition and the achievement of the energy market, the provisions of the directive shall consider the following areas. In the case of the electricity market, these are areas of electricity production, network access and the system, separation of activity and transport of accounts, i.e. the opening of the market and an independent regulator. In the gas market, almost the same distribution. The reform of the Croatian energy sector has its place in the pre-mentioned electricity and gas directives, which will become binding on the Republic of Croatia by entering or becoming a Croatian member of the European Union. Croatia has defined itself as an open energy market model, which is the ultimate goal towards which the energy market will be developed in the future in the European Union for sure. In addition to the solutions required by the directives, the construction of an open Croatian energy market model should be through energy laws and other laws and regulations that directly or indirectly affect the energy system to provide solutions for: system security, system stability, further development of the system, public service, specificity due to the large market and geographical shape and divorce of Croatia and a special relationship with consumers. Since every country in the European Union's common energy market is being integrated into its positions, there is no single solution, I would like to stress once again. It is common to establish a market, that is to say, that according to European Union directives, it is opened with certain dynamics, both on the side of production and wholesale, and on the side of consumption. Because of their multiple directives and indirect impact on the economy and standards of citizens, these assessments play a broader and more significant role for the future in Croatia. As a result, the planned construction of energy facilities can encourage the development of different industries in Croatia, and the well-designed energy price policy can directly and indirectly encourage the development of the entire economy and directly and indirectly affect the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As a result, it is much more important and thorough preparation than dynamics, especially not speeds at all costs of nominal reforms of the energy system, but essential reforms. The reform of the energy system should also be an integral part of industrial and regional policy that has not been defined or conceived in the Republic of Croatia so far. The reform of the system provides for business dominantly on economic principles, certainly energy is no longer a state monopoly, so it is not possible to plan unnecessary costs and to suffer unnecessary costs in the energy system. The reform of the energy system, due to its role in general in economic society, could serve well to transform other sub-systems of economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia. The Energy System Regulatory Council, whose report we are now considering, also has a significant, could say, crucial role, it is becoming very important in the development of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia. The jobs it has to do are prescribed by energy laws. In the agenda, we still have the Heat Energy Act to supplement the regulation of this matter. Its competence is specified in detail by law and sublegal acts which enable it to monitor the behaviour of energy entities within the sector, i.e. the future hope of a developed energy market. In spite of the lack of experience in this area, the Council has, in the short term, mastered jobs and it can be said that we are here in front of other countries in the region, as well as in the development of the energy sector itself. This SDP Club has no significant objections either to the work of the Council or to the development of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. We just wanted to highlight the importance of the energy sector in the development of the Republic of Croatia, both from the social, economic and social aspects. We therefore believe that the Council report has hit the core of the problem and has made it possible for us to have better insight into this matter and the problem, and the SDP Club will vote in favour of accepting the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21253	I thank the esteemed representative Josipovic. On behalf of the HNS Club, I'm sorry, not with any names today. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21254	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. This material we had in front of us is, in any case, commendable, generally for the simple reason that the Council started to operate in half 2002, so this is the first report for the whole year's Council's activities and, if the tasks of the Energy Regulatory Council and the first part of the report showing the work of the Council's activities, then it is quite clear that the Council has been dealing with administrative and technical affairs in terms of issuing permits to carry out energy activities, as well as with the implementation and supervision of the implementation of previously adopted tariff systems, i.e. fees and tariffs for the use of transmissions, transmission networks of electrical-energy systems, transport system for natural gas, i.e. the tariff for the transport of oil and oil pipelines. Clearly, the Council has dealt with other problems, such as the resolution of complaints and complaints from customers and energy subjects, although you know it, since we have practically a monopoly here, it has come down to complaints from those who carry oil, the privateer who transport oil for once again, and there have not been, as far as I have been able to understand, some major objections, and it would be good if we were much stricter sanctioned by law, just for the simple reason that frequent excises happen with these carriers on public roads, and we have a lot of damage, because we are dealing with old trucks, old tanks that are imported and probably cannot function in Western Europe anymore. Therefore, the clear Council also dealt with the preparation and adoption of the sub-legislative acts necessary for the regulation of this sector and for compliance with the European Union. This part of the Council's work is ongoing, and it can be concluded that the Council's work in cooperation with other competent entities has done its job in order and the HNS and PGS have positively assessed the part and accepted the report. The second part of the report that seems to me to be more important and could be said in advance that it is not quite complete, is the observations that are important for the development of the energy market and public services. That part of the report shall be processed in four chapters. It is a reform of the energy sector with legislation, the second is the electricity market, the third is the natural gas market and the fourth is the heat market. In the first part of the reform of the energy sector with the legislative regulation of the Council, it proposes certain changes and additions necessary to improve energy efficiency in the first instance in terms of the development of an energy balance that requires full co-operation of all energy entities. Clearly this is necessary for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Next, the cogeneration provisions for the production of electricity and heat, partly sanctioned by the proposed Heat Energy Act. It is then necessary to bring the entire energy regulation into line with the European Union Directive in this sector, and I think it is one job that will not be done only in this year but in the coming years and will require more entities to address all these problems. As far as electricity markets are concerned, the Council has made proposals and objections related to the Law on the electricity market, the law enforcement, the proposal to amend and supplement the law in my court and the court of the CNS PGS. Also, suggestions were given regarding public services. However, I must say that in the section concerning the construction of production facilities and the state of the electricity system and electricity markets, I would suggest to the council that this be complemented. Why am I saying that? The last decision to build a production facility in the Republic of Croatia was made in the 7th month of 84th. Now, you've had about two and a half months of 20 and two and a half months since your last decision to build an energy building in Croatia. These facilities, these are two Dubrava hydropower plants and Djale are now 15 years old in production. So by the way the investment programme was processed at that time they were practically amortised because the depreciation of equipment was required at that time for 16 years. The only thing that's called "Pliomin" is a little younger because it didn't build in time, so as you know, the Germans took it to the concession and ended up somewhere in wartime, so it's a little younger. All other facilities were hydroenergy, either thermally older than these 15 years. We have some problems in power supply, just last year it was thanks to the first row of droughts, but also the market in Europe for a simple reason because you have countries today like Italy that are richer than us so it takes and contracts energy in advance, and we fortunately didn't have any big problems. We succeeded as far as I can see here from this contribution to ensure that imports and last year, despite the great drought, we passed without reduction. I have to say that despite a very dry year slightly below 5 billion kilowatt hours, hydroenergy facilities have produced what is 13 billion, some 40 percent or slightly less than 40% of total production in that probably one of the most dry years in the last 50 years. There's another reason why we weren't in reduction. We weren't in a reduction because we had special consumers excluded, so Sibenik and the Long War who had a privileged position since socialism, they didn't produce anything anymore, and that's about about 3 billion kilowatts of extra hours, so you don't have to do anything, but you have the energy available because these don't produce anything. These facts actually talk about whatever state we're in today. We are thanks to the state of the economy as it is, we have no problem with electricity and it is actually a real state in which we are, and therefore, with all the respect of these renewable sources, I must stress, clearly this is not about the council, but the council should warn, rather than about the Government and the Ministry of Economy, in order to make an analysis of what we should build in Croatia. By the way, I have to say that today in the average hydrological year in Croatia, about 6 billion kilowatt hours of energy are produced from, hydroenergy, which is slightly less than the total consumption that the note has been growing in the last two years, you know. A little less than 10% a year. It grows for a simple reason because the tourist Adriatic today consumes both summer and winter equally electricity for a simple reason because everyone is getting cold today. So it takes electricity not only in winter for heating but also in summer for cooling. And that, and I have to say, we're going to get into trouble with energy very quickly with this kind of growth and if we don't decide to build these systems. By the way, I have to say that in Croatia's hydro potential there is still about 50 per cent, so about 3 billion kilowatt hours in Croatia that can be built, clearly which many experts will say is too expensive today, but I will also tell you what it looks like to you. Here in this material on page 35 you have blacked out in euro stamps in megawatt hours in Croatia, that is 73 euros, and in Italy where the most expensive is shown 147 euros. 100% more expensive. Now it's a question of what's expensive to build, you know, it's possible today, but in 15 or 20 years it's certainly not going to be expensive, because when we're in the European Union one day, unfortunately, we're going to have to accept a system of values that's worth it. By the way, when I mentioned the system of values, I'm obliged to tell you that. For 2002, all those with phone impulses in Croatia achieved income of 12 billion kuna. Do you know how much HEP from electricity has achieved? Six. So it's saying something that this government or some other government will have to deal with at some point. Croatia will have to accept that it is considering a system of values in the way it was done in the civilized world. Clearly I don't want to be understood that I'm announcing energy increases prices, I certainly don't advocate it, but the fact is that you do. You also have a very interesting diagram on page 35 that says that Croatia for the price of electricity for the economy, great consumers have a price of 43 euros and Luxemburg is below us, a small country, Luxemburg is 40 euros with that I have to tell you that we are a citizen of 73 euros and Luxembourg is 119 euros. Now you can imagine what a burden it is for our economy what we have today. Here, I wanted to warn you of some things, and by the way, I still have to say something about the state of the energy transmission distribution system that we have something above 16% loss in the transmission and distribution network. When I talk about it, then I'm talking about how much investment is necessary in this old system that's older than the time of identification, the time of 50 and 60, as our hydropower plants and thermal power plants are also over 35 years old, and I want to say if we don't invest in maintaining these systems that today, hydroelectrics are practically producing energy today, then we're going to have more problems because it can happen that these objects cancel out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21255	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, please choose Mr. Clepo.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21256	Dear gentlemen, just an clarification regarding or a comment on behalf of the Council on renewables and on balance sheet. Of course, the part-cycle and the powers of the Council are defined by law and sublaws we simply, that is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Croatia cannot cross that border, we can only go with useful and good suggestions and developments, by preparing it in a legislative sense, meaning in a formal sense on that side. I only provide you with information that the Council has brought all sublegal acts and documents under its jurisdiction within the deadlines that have been prescribed so far during 2003 means everything by including both the fees and the conditions for construction. As for building objects, this is today a crucial element to resolve, however, we still have a problem with the signal, information that needs to be built up to the operator, they are still within HEP's technical question, it is not easy to identify and give to someone else to manage the property, the system, etc., taking responsibility and the communication issue, but basically the Council can initiate the procedure on its side only when it gets a signal from the system operator, meaning that they are not in full function today and formally activated blocking this one, so these types of blockades must be released as soon as possible then the question of who is addressed to the issue of security and stability and this is today the topic in Europe when opening all barriers and borders simply has to be addressed to someone. As a rule, it is addressed from parliament and government to expert bodies, thinking that it is determined by directives as a key market organisation because this is a key issue today, and this is what we see for Croatia in the announced connection with the Southeastern network, i.e. including in the CT area of the Southeast countries an absolute priority on this, certainly the accountability or certain address in the sphere of decision making from the adoption of certain things in advance to the Government and the competent ministry, and we, on behalf of the Council, can take responsibility for preparing for all to be done and prepared properly, but I say there must be a body that says that is the time to go into construction. It is, of course, immediately related to the issue of realising the status of large consumers and where and what to build. And the entities that have a permit to build today are three in Croatia, and the entities that have the right to trade mediate and represent the market means to represent others and import electricity in the Republic of Croatia is 14, so they each have a lot and equal right so the licensee is equally legal, therefore, the absolutely issue should be addressed to the competent institution and it is an operator of systems and markets in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21257	Thank you. This concludes the debate by clubs, we move to individual debates, we have two reported, the distinguished representative Stazic is not in the assembly. Dear Representative Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21258	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Council, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. A few words about this report, which I consider particularly important for ordinary citizens, for ordinary consumers. One of the main objectives of opening the energy market is to enable all energy suppliers to get equal transparent and non-discriminatory conditions of supply to customers on the one hand, on the other hand, to give customers the right to choose suppliers from which the important role of the councils as a factor in regulating relations in the field of energy and consumer protection. Although it is a relatively new body set up two years ago, the report shows the Council's efforts to regulate the Croatian energy sector. In particular, I consider good results achieved in the field of licensing i.e. the granting of permits to carry out energy activities and in the field of energy consumers protection. In the field of licensing according to official data from the Council's website, solutions were adopted on the issue of 162 licences, at least last week. This resolves the requirements for the authorisation following professional procedures in which the conditions of technical qualification, professional competence and financial qualification of legal persons carrying out one of the 21 energy activities licensed under the adopted rules are checked. In this process preceding the period of intensive and professional preparation, the Council's regulator clearly made a great effort and achieved good results, all resulting in the fact that for the first time the implementation of energy activities in the Republic of Croatia has been fully regulated. This is also the legal basis for the future action of energy operators in the energy sector and on the energy market in line with the rules applicable in the European Union. Some improvements are technical and professional, all resulting in greater reliability of energy structure and security of energy supply. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement of Article 74 of the construction of a consumer protection system is defined as one of the priorities that the Republic of Croatia must meet in the context of the accession process to the European Union. The introduction of energy regulation encourages an active consumer protection policy to ensure proper functioning and market economy. It is evident that the Regulatory Council has sought to increase the information of energy operators and customers on changes in energy markets and on the opportunities offered by market relations and regulation of energy activities. It has also sought to act proactively to establish communication between different market participants and to prevent disputes that could result from certain irregularities in the regulatory framework that are still under way, i.e. from insufficient and inadequate experiences. Furthermore, it should be noted that, on the occasion of World Consumer Rights Day, the first National Consumer Protection Assembly in the Republic of Croatia held in Umag in March of this year, a recognition was given to this Council for contributing to the protection and information of consumers. However, I would like to point out that so far experience in the work of the Council has shown that spending in the Republic of Croatia has the most problems and talks in relation to the exercise of their rights in relations with energy entities that have a monopoly in carrying out the activities of the supply of electricity, heat and gas. Thus, the action of the Energy Regulatory Council will continue to focus on avoidance of discrimination or, to enable competition, to create space for existing new actors in the sector, to monitor competition in the energy market in order to ensure fair and impartial market conditions for all participants, and to meet other indirect consumer protection objectives through the prescribed procedure of issuing authorisations to carry out the Law of certain energy activities, to truly qualified energy entities. Such actions of the Regulatory Council will give rise to assumptions for the establishment and development of a consumer protection system, i.e. energy service users as a fundamental objective and achievements that must be monitored by the restructuring of the energy sector and the introduction of new forms of regulatory practice in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the above would result in the support of this Report giving a strong message of commitment to the Croatian Parliament to support and in a certain way oversee the work of the Regulatory Council as an independent regulator in the energy sector, which is an important prerequisite for the successful reform of the energy sector on our way to the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21259	Thank you. Does the proposaler's representative want a final word? Thank you very much. Yes, go ahead. Mr. Mico Klepo.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21260	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of Parliament, I most sincerely thank you on behalf of the Council for this extraordinary, I would like to say with commendable and good words for the Council, because a single body, an institution that is yet to be strengthened in some works and segments defines its activity this is extremely encouraging and welcome for us. On behalf of the Energy Regulatory Council, I most sincerely thank you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21261	I'd like to thank the doctor, Mitchie Clapey. This is what we've exhausted, or I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. I'm setting a break until 3:00, at 3:00, it's a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-24-0.u21262	Finally, the report on the work of the Energy Regulatory Council and observations that are relevant for the development of the energy market and public services. Please, let's get on with it. I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Council on the regulation of energy activities and observations is accepted which is important for the development of the energy market and public services." Let's vote. The result, please. I find that with 94 votes in favour, six abstentions and nothing against the proposed conclusion. And another conclusion, the proposal to lock down the club of HSP, HDZ. "The Energy Regulatory Council is obliged to supplement the reports on the work of the Council which are relevant for the development of the energy market and public services with a detailed financial report for 2003 and to deliver to the Croatian Parliament within 60 days." Let's get on with it. Let's vote. The result, please. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 82 votes in favour, 2 abstentions and 12 against.
