ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8581	... Honorable MPs and MPs. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] The government of Prime Minister Racan proposed, and then the parliamentary majority accepted the introduction of personal income tax deductions for some of the investments that taxpayers have during a tax year. Tax deduction thus introduced for the amount of actual costs of health services and the purchase of orthopaedic aid up to a maximum amount of 12 thousand kuna per year. The tax deduction for investments on behalf of purchase or construction of residential space, apartment or house was also introduced. For the purpose of a permanent residence of a taxpayer. A tax deduction was also introduced for investment maintenance at the visiting residence of the taxpayer in order to improve housing conditions. Also up to 12,000 kuna a year. If the purchase or construction of a residential space, i.e. investment maintenance, is financed by means of a dedicated loan, interest on that loan is also considered a personal deduction. Finally, for those of our fellow citizens who cannot buy an apartment or a house or build, even with a loan, a personal deduction was introduced for the amount of 50% of the paid freely contracted rent for the needs of a permanent residence in the tenant's residential space. All these tax deductions, and tax reliefs to so much as call them so will be very visible when taxpayers get their income tax returns from their tax administrations this year. They will receive tax returns and so clearly see that Racan's government has taken care of them as citizens. Here is the opportunity for Sanader's government, the parliamentary majority that supports this SDP proposal, to continue in the same direction. It is proposed to introduce two more tax deductions. The one for investment on behalf of the purchase of a personal computer, computer components and programmes, and for the costs incurred by paying foreign language courses and information education that the taxpayer had for himself and the child he supported. The first relief, in particular the right to increase the personal deduction for the purchase of computers and programmes, could be achieved by the taxpayer once every two years, up to the amount of 12,000 kuna. However, if, therefore, the computer, computer components and programs are offered to primary or secondary schools, the right to increase personal deduction could be used once a year. Of course, the taxpayer would be obliged to apply that right to the Tax Administration to present credible documents. Why do we propose what we propose? The reason is simple. Continue to care for the citizens and facilitate their solving of their essential problems. This is not a political move aimed at collecting political points. Evidence of this is a number of reliefs introduced by Racan's government, which are only being upgraded by this proposal. The reasons are therefore absolutely principled. In fact, the tax policy of each country on the one hand monitors the needs of society, and, on the other hand, encourages desirable investment. The SDP as a proposer is convinced that investment in the purchase of information equipment and learning foreign languages is precisely a desirable investment in Croatian society. That's what we can argue. We came from the fact that literacy in the 21st century, along with its classical definition, includes information literacy, as well as knowledge of at least one foreign language. We therefore believe that the state must make an effort, to stimulate citizens' investments in this type of descriptiveness. In this way it meets the basic objectives of tax policy. Namely, it shows recognition of this problem and shows the will to solve it. Information literacy is unimaginable, without owning a personal computer, which is in addition to the classic possibilities it offers to access the Internet as a network background for information society. The Internet penetrates all segments of life, from fun, through education, to business. Already today, some companies announce that they will soon stop doing business with those who do not use the Internet and appropriate information tools. A relatively small number of Internet users in Croatia. All 18% of the population. In the bill of law, you are accompanied by respected MPs by a chart, which says the Internet uses 40.2% of citizens in the UK. In Slovenia 37%, in Italy 30%, and in Slovakia 29%. Croatia, therefore, is significantly lagging behind with its modest 18%. Let's add this and the information that neighbouring Slovenia has adopted a strategy that will have 60% of households access to the Internet by the end of 2006. It is therefore clear that every Croatian lag in this regard would be devastating from the point of view of national interests. A small number of Internet users in Croatia consider experts to be the result of a small penetration of personal computers. Currently in Croatia there are about 700 thousand personal computers, of which 46% are in the economy, 42% are in households, and only 8% are in the state administration and public institutions. Tax incentives for the purchase of personal computers can significantly contribute to the growth of the number of Internet users, and thus significantly raise the total information literacy of the nation. Now a few sentences about the second right to tax deductions to the one for learning foreign languages. There's a situation, unfortunately, even more devastating. Analysing personal consumption, the annual household proposal and the household member brings data that in 2002 average annual personal spending per member of the education household, therefore not only for learning a foreign language but also for other forms of education was only 150 kuna, i.e. to spend 0.88% on education in the structure of personal consumption. Starting with the indisputable fact that in the division of work it is already impossible to count on any better valuable work, without knowing at least one foreign language. And aware that learning a foreign language in primary and secondary schools does not provide a sufficient knowledge fund in this area. We consider it necessary to stimulate citizens for this form of lifelong learning with additional tax relief. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't political law. There are no ideologies in it, and there is absolutely no reason to plead against it in view of party membership. This is a law which, on the one hand, introduces two new rights to tax deductions for citizens and I think citizens will be delighted to accept it. On the other hand, he cares about national interests, because increasing information literacy and knowledge of foreign languages is indeed a national interest. At least for those who sincerely and committed themselves without the figurines in their pocket advocate to include Croatia in the order of European countries and Croats in the order of European peoples. This is a young man's law. This is the law of the future. For all things said, I invite you to give this bill unanimous support and bring it unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8582	Thank you, fellow Stazic. Introductory presentation on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS PGS and LIBRE, in the light of the proposal of Law No. The 12th representative, Radimir Cacic, will submit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8583	Good afternoon, Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Introduce a few notes. In order to clear up all the dilemmas about whether or not we think that any form of budget entry is possible or desirable right now, as in our discussion of VAT reduction law, and here we repeat that we think that this is not the time. If, however, an instrument that we still expect will boost the collection of tax revenues on the one hand or on the other, the existing instrumentation of quality used to make the results that appear then we believe that there are better quality solutions which, with less budget damage, would have better effects on the public and the economy, and in this sense, this legal text. The second introductory note is that our law here and proposed and submitted to the Parliament for consideration together with the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, since these are two bound texts, it is necessary to take care of it of course. What's the point, then, is the law we've given you here for consideration. The aim is, of course, to change, by increasing the basic personal deduction from 1500 to 2000 kuna to allow citizens who generate income from unsustainable and self-employed work to be applied more netly. Of course, one law like this has other effects. One of the most important effects is a significant blow to the gray economy, which is one of the pains of our economy, not just our traditional countries, but we certainly feel it. It was here on several occasions and yesterday said Minister Schuker and all the finance and economy ministers and all those who deal with the problem in general in economic terms cannot, of course, avoid the problem of the gray zone. One of the measures that significantly contribute to the transition to the legal zone is precisely the reduction of the burden, i.e. raising the level at which the tax payment starts here to 2000. That it was so easy to check because we did so in the mandate of the last government and the effects were very quickly shown and I will talk about it later and even as an extremely positive presentation and in the explanation of the budget that this government, the current Government handed over to the Parliament a month ago when we adopted the budget. Therefore, there was no dispute on the positive effects of these measures and there was no. In addition, at that point in the legal zone for that part of employers who pay the difference in hands or other ways in order to avoid paying income taxes, it appears immediately for the state of benefit through a series of taxes and contributions on the one hand and on the other hand social benefits, because then the level, the visible level of net income and gross income is raised. Of course, this law also represents a reduction of pressure on employers and strengthening the competitiveness of Croatia's economy. Here we have the Law which is essentially already offered and accepted by this House, remember that we had the Law on raising a tax base from 2550 to 3000 for pensioners. So on the trail of this concept, this government has already offered not so few citizens the same concept. We have here in front of us one of the few situations, cases where we release from the citizen's tax and the damage that happens in the budget is less than it looks. It's very rare, but in this case it is. The damage is less because those following the effects I mentioned earlier are almost halving about what you can again very easily make a change to the effects of the same measure that the government has implemented. We also have to mention here that these measures that we mention here are the rule, not the exception in all transition countries, and that they are going in this very direction. Unlike I have to mention, I didn't hear it here in the discussions, maybe I overheard it, unlike VAT, VAT, unfortunately it has exactly the opposite direction. Our neighbours, quite successful economic Slovenians, are if not said, here I will say raised VAT, did not lower but raised the VAT from 19% to 21% since we discussed the reduction because they started with 19%, not by chance, for a whole series of reasons that we have already presented here, but have therefore strongly brought down other types of tax burdens, including the income tax that I am talking about here. It is instructive to look at what they do more successfully than we do and learn something. In that sense, I suggest we take care of it here too. What are we essentially getting here? By accepting this bill, only an increase in the basic personal deduction would ensure that the net salary is increased to persons who generate incomes from unsustainable and self-employed work of around 4% and we propose the simultaneous harmonisation of pensions, we wrote it but it has already been done, HDZ has already done what we have predicted here. In other words, a similar clue was clearly considered, and now it should just continue. In addition, in this case that we are talking about on the basis of a union basket for a 4-member family of 5295 kuna, it has grown in the meantime, this is the base at the time when the law was proposed, we have a reduction, a tax burden resulting from an average of 212 kuna on the incomes of a four-member family per month, with the already mentioned revenue reduction, in the State budget, and this is from a billion and 750 million kuna in our budgets. If we compare this to the budgets again advocacy because here, let's say, the Finance Minister's budget is 2 billion 400, if we compare it to the budgets we've been doing for VAT, then we see that the average positive effect per citizen is if, of course, there are pockets of citizens, if the traders don't keep that difference, the average reduction effect of 1.6% and we heard yesterday exactly 1.64% is 86 kuna on the same average basket. In other words, with 3 billion negative effects per budget of 86 kuna of positive effect per citizen. And that's on condition that they're of course spending it, isn't it? VAT is tax consumption. On this side, we have a billion and 750 million kunas of negative effect per budget, and 212 kuna of positive effect per citizen. It's not complicated. It's easy to compare. The effects are obvious. Of course, through this proposal we also lose that negative part that VAT reduction carries on itself, which is a strong incentive for imports because 75% is calculated on imported goods. On the contrary, we are increasing the competitiveness of the domestic economy so potentially and exports. Of course, there is no need to hesitate in any way that one such measure goes in favour of all citizens either directly or indirectly. It could be noted that this is a tax on income from independent and independent work. So what about those people that don't work? So those who, people who don't work, children, pensioners, so here are already solved but those who don't work children or housewives or others, here certainly have positive effects from this proposal for the simple reason that those who feed the family, who earn money here are 4% in direct gain and that in no way can it be stopped or prevented from any obstacles. Here, it seems to me yesterday that Shuker specifically pointed out that we cannot in any way prevent traders from taking the positive effects of VAT cuts. That's true. Only the market can stop them. We can't make any calls. No parole can do that. There's no dispute about that. However, this law does not have traders in between. This law is direct. This Law immediately brings money into the pockets of citizens by the fact that it is adopted. So that's not a small difference. She should certainly be taken care of. If we take into account this here, it was in a number of terms, that we have also taken into account that this negative effect by the budget, which is twice, almost twice as much in our calculations as the negative effect of VAT, at the same time there are no negative effects on local and regional budgets, contrary to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, which will be later spoken of, then the bloc law does not only make direct benefits to citizens, but at the same time strongly encourages strengthening local self-government, strengthening their budgets, their original assets and, of course, solves one of these perhaps the biggest problems of Croatia, which is centralisation and metropolisation which unfortunately has turned Croatia into a country of unequal odds. That's gonna be a special word. Here, I ask you to seriously consider the Law that is before us, and the opinion of the Government that rejected this Law I must say that it was annulled by what I said earlier because the Government's opinion says this: the reduction of income will also be too difficult, which is also a burden to weigh the source of funding of local and regional self-government, so it is a negative effect that the Law should reject and income from the cut, income tax again on this basis and, as I said two minutes ago, you can check it out, and all of course, we have given both of these laws at the same time in the procedure just to avoid any possibility of putting such an objection on which, according to which, or the Government did not notice or want to see it, or it quite anyway, simply rejected it with one explanation which of course has no basis, no? If there was any other explanation, I'd understand, but here's the explanation, right? If there's anyone else, we'll hear it. This in writing was brought out here. Of course there is another interesting detail in this whole story that when we have warned in our discussions as representatives of the Croatian People's Party when it comes to adopting laws to raise the same base for pensioners to 3,000, it is necessary to take account of the negative effects that are achieved through this strong, as it is, of course, a large number of people, a large amount of funds, which reflect on the reduction of the original revenues of the local self-government and regional self-government units, these arguments have been rejected, and no one has looked back on them. Now interestingly our arguments in this same defeat have been rejected, the damage to local self-government units and has been done regionally. They have been significantly reduced by the adoption of this law, which must naturally be passed in order for pensioners not to benefit from the damages of 100 kuna. It's understandable that it's been brought in, isn't it? But the damage has been done to local, local self-government and regional self-government units, and now at the proposal of the HNS Club of the PGS and Libra we have a situation that at the same time the solution has been offered to keep not only the level of funding of local self-government and regional self-government units but also increases and we are talking about it here in a way that is rejected by the government's opinion. So I must honestly tell you that I don't quite understand what is wanted here, and I would be very pleased if perhaps in a discussion in this House I could clear up what is really a position and what do we really want, no? To sum up if we want to do a little damage to the state a lot of benefit per citizen and local self-government to accept this law, if we want to do a lot of damage to the state, and nothing benefits the citizens, then let's realize what was offered yesterday. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8584	Thank you very much, colleague. Before we begin to correct the incorrect allegations, I see that the concentration in the Assembly has fallen rather due to our guests at the gallery, so let me welcome the historical unit of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Hungary. These are the guards from the Rina Guard Čakovec and Husari Husari historical units from the border Hungarian town of Nachnyza, so here we go. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the debate. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Comrade Jarnjak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8585	Mr. Cacic's imprecise is that the law that was discussed yesterday on VAT is of little use to the citizens. It's an incorrect quote, and it's just as incorrect as it is that this law that you're proposing just goes to the benefit of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8586	Thank you very much, colleague. The discussion can also be carried out by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget, the Economy, Development and Reconstruction, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would one of the Committee representatives like to read their report? Am I saying no or yes? Yes, the Committee on Local Self-Government. Here's your colleague, Mrs. Gristle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8587	Honorable vice presidents, esteemed ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Local, Regional (area) Self-Government discussed these two proposals and did not support the adoption by the majority of votes of these two draft laws. However, I will not read to you the report because you received it in writing, but I would like to point out what was in the debate, which was that there was a concern that just as a result of tax relief, certain units of local self-government in the 4th, 5th and 6th months would be at risk of being affected by the liquidity of municipal and urban budgets, which refers to units of local, regional (regional) self-government that are not located in areas of special state care and mountainous area. So we asked the Ministry of Finance to consider the situation before starting to recover the income tax based on the tax returns submitted, and that we might have a discussion on the Committee, and then as a result of the debate, we might suggest some measures which, therefore, would not have had a significant negative impact on the budget of the units of local self-government because at this point neither the Ministry of Finance nor we could see how much more tax returns will be compared to last year. And the announcements are that it will be significant more. So, on behalf of the Committee, I appeal to the Ministry of Finance and to the Parliament that before the return of income tax, we should look at it together and try to enable local self-government units to survive those three months when there will be a return on taxes and not bring them into difficulties. Since the units of local self-government were in no way able to influence the adoption of the law, so that they would also deny part of their income tax revenues based on that income. And I repeat, so most of the votes were not supported by the adoption of these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8588	Thank you very much, colleague. Is there anyone else who might be answering from the board? No one's changed their mind? It's not. We're on our way to a club debate. The first one was reported by the HDZ Club. I'm a colleague of Katarina Fuchek. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8589	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Proposals for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed in their examples and proposals by SDP clubs as a special proposal and clubs of the CNS, PGS and LIBRE as a second proposal, which we are now having a united debate will not be supported by the HDZ. Here's why. It is not appropriate to propose laws affecting the revenues of the state budget and without projection of the impact on the state budget, in particular on the financing of units of local administration and self-government whose income tax is an important income item. According to the finance ministry, an increase in personal deduction to 2 thousand kuna, as one of these draft laws proposed, would result in an effect of budgetary loss on this basis of 2.4 billion kuna. Less than $1.28 billion would go to damage to the central state budget, and 1.16 billion to the damage of local administration and self-government units. This certainly does not allow the smooth development of Croatia, which is one of the essential assumptions for achieving the standard of development with which Croatia needs to enter the European Union because units of local administrations and self-government would find themselves in a very difficult position. The intensity of the relief in the Income Tax Act is to enable a wider circle of citizens to meet basic needs of life, such as housing and health, and refers to a working-active population. The HDZ considers, in addition to all the above reasons, that these Law proposals should not be adopted because the Income Tax Act has been amended and complemented on several occasions, extending the circle of users of new opportunities. So again, a change in the height of the base deduction from a thousand 250 to a thousand 500 kuna per month has been made. Costs shall be recognised in determining the income for life insurance premiums paid which have a feature of the savings of supplementary and private health insurance and voluntary pension insurance. The personal deduction may be increased during the tax period and for the amount of actual costs of health services and the purchase of orthopaedic aids up to 12 thousand kuna per year. The personal deduction also increased for investments in the name of buying or building a residential space for the purpose of permanent housing, also up to 12,000 kuna per year. A personal deduction has also been increased for investment maintenance in the existing living space of the taxpayer or his spouse in order to improve housing conditions. Personal deductions can also be increased by 50% of the paid free, contracted rent for permanent dwellings in the tenant's residential space, also up to 12,000 kuna per year. The personal deduction shall also be increased for donations of the day in kind in respect of a jury account, and for cultural, educational, scientific, health, humanitarian, sports and religious purposes, associations and other persons who carry out those activities in accordance with specific regulations up to 2% of the receipts for which an annual tax application was submitted in the previous year and the final income tax established. Income taxpayers carrying out independent activities of income tax bases may be further reduced during the tax period by the amount of paid salaries and paid contributions to new employees, and by the amount of prizes paid during practical work and training. Income taxpayers carrying out independent activities of income tax bases may also be further reduced on the basis of training supplements and professional training of employees and those taxpayers personally and at the level of the total expenditure incurred during the tax period. Income taxpayers carrying out independent activities of income tax bases may be further reduced in the tax period on the basis of research and development expenditure, in the amount of 100% incurred and in the accounts of expenditure shown. These are, with the changes previously included, sufficient opportunities for all necessary deductions with which the intention is also stimulated by several areas for which they are easily intended. As regards the second proposal specifically specific, which provides for an increase in the personal deduction to invest in the name of purchase of a computer, computer components and programmes up to the amount of 12,000 kuna per year, as well as for the costs incurred by paying foreign language courses and information exchange rates made by the taxpayer, the following may be said. Encouraging information descriptiveness is certainly one of the most important elements of today and the need for the development of society as a whole and Croatia still has much to do, but certainly not in this way by individual not systematic interventions in tax laws and without the right indicator of efficiency. The proposal clarifies Croatia's lagging behind in this area, which is certainly an important information that we must not ignore because information communication technology is the drive of the knowledge economy and the knowledge society and the Croatian Government has clearly identified and indicated guidelines for the accelerated development of society through the use of information, i.e. information technology, the establishment of a central state office and Croatia that will lead and coordinate the information of the state, primarily with the aim of training the state administration for quality service of citizens via the internet. Developed infrastructure, educated users and a strong economy are the cornerstones of an information society which can only be overcome by systematic approach and investment in these three segments. Small countries such as the Croatian people become the basic potential of development as well as changes in the education system to keep our young generations moving forward with the developed world. The information of society must first of all be looked much wider than one law framework and it must achieve multiple objectives preventively through an education system in which citizens as taxpayers already participate in funding. The young population is included in information language education through regular education and 151 million kunas have been allocated for this purpose only in the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. In that amount, they found primary and secondary schools. And if it takes a very systematic approach, I'll point to this example. Systematic IT equipment of schools Ministry of Education and Sports has been monitoring and implementing since 1997, I stress systematically. From 1366 primary and secondary schools in Croatia by the end of 2004 all will be equipped with computer workshops. There are 190 elementary schools left for this year. In Croatian schools there are 21 thousand computers, of which 11 thousand and 500 in primary schools 9500 in secondary schools, while their average age is 3.3 years. In elementary schools, 34.5 students come to one computer while 20 students are on one computer in high schools. The European average is 5 to 15 computers per 100 students. These indicators suggest that there is still a lot of budget money, i.e. taxpayers' money, to be allocated for systematic access to this very informational description of young people. And progress in this systematic approach to information is also visible. Because if it hadn't been for that kind of approach, every year, we would have been giving up large sums of money, and the European average would have been just ahead. The information of society is a strategic set, as I have already said and a basis for development, which must first and foremost achieve efficiency and competitiveness and engage at all levels and in all areas in the information society. In addition to the cost of the computer and its availability, it is necessary to take a cheaper approach to the interior, to introduce integrated business systems, to perfect travel via the Internet, and in all of this for quality education primarily of young people and then other categories of society. Moreover, according to this proposal, the law could not, the expected results and effects would not be achieved because tax reliefs are related to expenditure incurred during the year by the taxpayer but not by the members of his family. As stated in the Government's opinion and above, the proponent of this, i.e. these laws, did not take into account the increased costs of introducing additional records by the tax administration. Each new and unwarranted introduction of new benefits increases the number of exceptions resulting in a breach of the tax system as some of its instruments in this case income tax. All this is due to the creation of instability in the tax system which we certainly do not want and therefore do not support these bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8590	Thank you very much, Comrade Fuchek. Next up is SDP Club, respected representative Jelena Pavićić, Vukičević and colleague Marija Lugarić have shared terms. And first you'll do it? Here you go, Comrade Lugaric. And, I'm sorry, on behalf of the motionary who always has the right, a colleague named Dragutin Lesar appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8591	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I am sorry that, after the first debate, I must react on behalf of the promoter and show myself about these serious remarks made by the HDZ Club. Firstly, I am resented that we have submitted a bill on increasing the untaxable part of the salary without completing the projection of the consequences of the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. This is simply not true on the parliamentary committees and, in particular, in the assessment of the situation by proposing amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local regional self-government, we gave the same or approximately similar projection as the Government did. Calculated how much will be under the quotes "losers" or less income in both the state budget and in the budgets of the unit of local and regional self-government and explained that we are therefore handing over the amendment and addition of the law on the financing of local self-government, so that there are no losses on the part of municipalities, cities and counties. Let me remind you, the government worked its reckoning based on 2002 data and we did our projection on expected revenues and expenditures in 2003. And our data suggests that by adopting both of these laws that we are discussing today in 2003, the state and the Balance Fund would have incomes of around 3 billion 250 and local and regional self-government 3 billion 750 from the title of the income tax. By accepting our proposal at the Balance Fund this year, there would be about a billion and 312 million, and in favour of the units of local self-government 3 billion 937 million. So there would be a rise in the revenue of municipalities, cities and counties and the truth would have dropped the State budget by about a billion 750. And we explained it and clearly wrote it. Secondly, we passed the law, which was proposed on January 23rd, so 2 months before the State budget, and not after its adoption. Thirdly, the application of our laws does not require any new records or forms or forms or tax administrations and employers would suffer additional costs for their application. I ask you to pay attention for a moment because I need to present some information that is extremely important for the application of this law. According to the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia in March last year, based on 935 thousand workers, officials, tenants who received the salary, and this is data without employees in defence, police, crafts, free professions and individual agriculture, 37,000 received a net salary of less than 1500 kuna. At the same time, the lowest basis for contributions under the state regulation was 1858 kuna. The theoretical salary below 1500 kuna could neither happen nor pay because it is completely unreasonable and incomprehensible that someone pays a commitment to 1858 and pays workers less than 1500. Whether this is due to full or shortened working hours, but 49% of these employees worked in the textile industry, the processing of textiles and the training industry, so 49% of them work in those two parts of the industry where women are employed. There were 54 thousand people in the range of 1500 to 1800 kuna and from 1800 to 2100, 70,000 people. What is this information saying? That 37,000 employees have a zero income tax rate because the salary is less than 1500 kuna. According to our proposal and increasing the non-taxable part of the salary to 2000 kuna, there would be about 120,000 new users or new employees, workers and employees who would enter a zero income tax rate. But all those with higher salaries would also profit at an average salary level of 4% or 156 kuna. Another which is extremely important. Since this year, the lowest payment base from 1858 has been increased to 1951.2 kuna and 21 lime. So almost 2,000. So if the lowest basis for pension and health contributions is 2000, something a little less, then it's logical and understandable that even the untaxable part of the salary is approximately at that level. That's the second reason we suggested. Third, on this model of gross labour costs, the gross labour price remains the same as before. Not a single dime of increased costs. The State has mechanisms to affect the growth or decline of gross labour prices and net. A year and a few days ago, reducing contributions to pension insurance made an effort to lower the gross labour price. Now the proposal, leaving the same gross cost to increase the net labour price and these are the two mechanisms where the state can influence wage policy and gross costs to employers by correcting those contributions to or from salaries or taxes on, from salaries. So this time we're proposing an intervention that comes into effect in net wages. Third reason: all those employers who pay below the table without a reckoning and this has always shown up until now when it was done after a few months they raise the actual amounts of wages so that the losses of the tax which in the first few months are recorded later are compensated and come to the same level that were when that base was lower. Consider these data from 1991 onwards and you will see whenever this change occurred that after half a year, tax income and income rose to about the same level. We have last time increased the untaxable share of pensions to 3,000 kunas from 2,000 to 550 and it is quite normal to suggest that there is also an increase in the untaxable part of the salary. The objections that have so far been established that a part of employers do not apply the gross salary system and calculate the net instead of simply correcting gross wages and can be and trade unions themselves say that there are about 30% of them. However, I must warn that according to the Labour Act, gross wages are being agreed, and any other way of calculating, contracts in labour contracts or collective agreements are illegal and we cannot propose laws on the basis of those who break but who apply the laws. In this proposal we also received support from the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia as one of the major social partners and the largest union centre and as regards the government's reasoning, the government calculated that the central budget would lose a billion 160 so even less than we projected and, in fact, local self-government a billion 160, and the central budget of a billion 280. Behind this item of the agenda is our second draft law, where this is exactly what we suggest that local and regional self-government should not be lost but be increased by around 200 million in revenue compared to what they had under the old regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8592	Thank you very much, colleague. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations and violation of the Rules of Procedure. Representative Nenadić reported both, so please, colleague Nenadić, first of all, injure the Rules of Procedure, which article? I admit it, I didn't notice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8593	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Infringement of Article 210, the esteemed colleague, Lesar, discusses the next item of the agenda. He did not stick to the established order that we had established. So he discussed the point of the Amendment Law and the amendments to the law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government. I admit it's closely related to these first two laws, but it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because it's not in the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8594	I do not agree with my colleague that the Rules of Procedure have been injured because they have already discussed the other topics and have indeed not been illogically combined. Here's a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8595	The correction of the incorrect quote refers to a statement that all, I repeat, municipalities, cities and counties, let's say they will have greater income or profit from this change. I repeat, and we were saying yesterday that these amendments would practically have been abolished, and thus richer municipalities would get more and less. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8596	This was a correction to an incorrect quote. The next correction to the incorrect quote by representative Katarina Fuček. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8597	Mr. Lesar, in his statement, referred to the criticism that on behalf of the Club, I mentioned some expenses in which they did not speak. This was related in any case to another proposal, where the exemption for the purchase of information equipment and the costs incurred from that base must be collected, since the release is foreseen for 2 years. It was related to the second bill, we're discussing a united debate. Secondly, he did not dispute the projection of the loss in the central state budget, and since the government in the VAT reduction proposal has just made its contribution and gave up parts, so the budget funds at the expense of the standard so that the new, certainly new losses would not have been deported at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8598	Thank you very much, colleague Fuchek. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP Club, representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8599	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club proposed to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws that would allow citizens and citizens to invest more favourablely in information equipment and programmes, and more favourable learning of foreign languages. As counterpart Stazic said, we did not propose it from, as political laws, but rather convinced that it was good measures. Today, the government and HDZ majority in parliament refuse and these laws oppose it. This is really strange, especially if we know it's about the proposal, of course, until the SDP proposed it, he had other than public support and support from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Even the Government of the Republic of Croatia publicly announced such steps. For example, on February 10th of this year, a government official announces an urgent and quick decision on tax relief for the purchase of personal computers. Today, the HDZ government is against this law and precisely against what it is itself intending to propose. The villains, but probably only the villains, would say, are against only because it is the SDP proposal, not because it is a bad proposal. Why do we from the SDP propose and support an increase in the non-taxable part of income for the purchase of personal computer and computer programs and investment in learning foreign languages and information descriptiveness. To a regulated state and a country that is strategically and developmentally thinking, tax policy is one of the powerful instruments that promotes and achieves strategic objectives. The SDP sees its citizens as competent actors in the 21st century society as one of the strategic goals in the future. All of us in the conversation, and otherwise we like to call on the fact that the literacy of the 21st century, apart from the classical, or traditional definition, includes full information literacy as well as knowledge of at least one foreign language and such definition, we all support in principle and it is absolutely clear to everyone that without using IT and knowledge of foreign languages, it is not possible to participate in modern society. Accordingly, in the SDP, we do not feel that it is necessary here for long and wide to explain how the devastating situation in Croatia is related to information literacy, how few of our citizens own a computer and the number of Internet users and other modern communication tools in Croatia, far below the level of European countries. We believe that today we need to discuss how to fix this situation. And unlike many others who advocate and just speak, we propose a concrete measure that can and if adopted, certainly and will help increase the level of information literacy, which is also Croatian national interest. The HDZ Government today rejects our proposal, with an explanation, among other things, from the government's explanation: "In order to increase the cost of processing tax returns and additional records should be introduced in the Tax Administration". And imagine obstacles? Additional records should be established. A special story is the second part of our proposal. We propose that our citizens are encouraged to invest in their education specifically in the information and learning of foreign languages in a way that increases their untaxable share of income for concrete investments. Similarly, all of them, including HDZ, are in principle committed to lifelong learning and the need for investment in education, and today this same HDZ government and most refuse the SDP proposal, which is precisely one of the measures to encourage lifelong learning, explaining that the younger population through a regular system of education is involved in language and information education, and that the working-active population needs this. And that's where the government stops, no, not exactly offering solutions to the active, working-active population. And of course we all know that today, without additional information and language education, it is very difficult to survive on the labour market. At the same time, refusing the SDP proposal again probably not because it is bad and inappropriate. So, for example, for example, mechanical occupations cannot be done without the use of information technologies. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP will insist on its very clear view that it is necessary to invest more in modern technologies and education and our bill is a strong argument to this attitude. We also invite all MPs and representatives to support our proposal, to facilitate the procurement of information equipment and programmes to citizens, as well as information and language education. We believe that it is an important strategic national issue, especially in the context of Croatia's involvement in the European Union, and that representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament will support the SDP Club's proposal to take another small step in integration with the modern world and not to read newspaper inscriptions for a few years as 82% of Croatians are Internet luxury. Tonight's paper, February 10th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8600	Thank you very much. The second part on behalf of the Club, representative Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8601	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. We also have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the clubs of HNS, PGS and LIBRA. The SDP representative club supports this proposal as an attempt to improve the quality of life of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Namely, this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act is a logical sequence of legal measures that are tax-deprived citizens, raise net wages, i.e., income from independent and independent work and thus raise the quality of life in the Republic of Croatia, raising personal deductions from a thousand and 500 to 2,000 kuna, or effectively, is about an increase of around 4%. This series of measures began with amendments to the Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2001 and when three rates of tax were introduced of 15, 25 and 35 %. The current State budget for 2004 also states that the changes mentioned, i.e. the reduction of income tax revenues, were for the purpose of further tax redundancies of income. Also, as of 1 January 2003, new amendments and additions to the Law, which increase personal deductions to 1,000 and 500 kuna, have been implemented, and a 4th rate of income tax has been introduced. In doing so, it is not necessary to ignore a wide range of personal deductions such as those for purchase and investment in the living space, the use of a rental apartment or the payment of real costs of health services and the purchase of orthopaedic aids in the Republic of Croatia, and up to 12,000 kuna per year. And SDP's proposal from this united debate was actually going that way. From the clarification of the amendments proposed and the addition of the Income Tax Act, it is quite clear that this is an alternative to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Value Added Tax and that this is indeed a more quality and a more significant contribution to the real increase in salaries of citizens. For this reason, and for the purpose of further tax decommissioning of citizens, disbursements that will reduce the level of income in the state budget, but will raise net wages are expected to make the Croatian government's social justice towards Croatian citizens even though the government had a weak argument taken over by the parliamentary committees too negatively, I repeat the argument that could have been equally valid and proposed a VAT reduction could have been valid but we know that it is not. A government that wants to be both social and developmental should support such a bill that gives the citizens of this country a significant amount of salary increase than a reduction in VAT from 22% to 20%. However, the same government's relationship to this proposal and parliamentary life has been defined by the fact that this proposal was removed from the agenda of the previous session of parliament because the government did not show itself in time about the proposal of representatives' clubs. I would like to draw attention equally without any irony to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the representatives of the majority in this House to the fact that the current legislative proposals have been extended by the Government by individual groups of citizens. In these privileged groups there was also a working-active population, but the above-mentioned legal changes did not concern employees’ salaries independently if they received income on the basis of non-permanent or independent work. Unfortunately, and employees are very often at risk of a category of paid solidly 14% in the first pillar of pension insurance for the current pensioners and only 5% in the second pillar for their personal pensions. But the relationship between employees and pensioners is unfavourable not because of the fact that employees partially finance pension payments but also because of the deepening difference that will arise as a result of the pre-election promise of HDZ to pensioners to increase the non-taxable part from 2.550,00 kuna to 3.000,00 kuna. I believe that the working-active population, respecting all other categories of our fellow citizens, cannot be systematically forgotten and ignored when it comes to increasing rights for other categories of population. I do not care about workers, care about our tomorrow and the increase from 1.500,00 to 22.00 kuna I consider a step towards a more equal treatment of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, actually towards a socially progressive policy. In particular, and because I would repeat this increase in employees' salaries would actually rise at least 4%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8602	Thank you very much. We have a correction of an incorrect quote, two corrections. First came from a colleague, Katarina Fuček. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8603	I am correcting the incorrect quote from my colleague, Lugaric, who, in her explanation of the proposal, said the government rejects the SDP proposal by alluding to the fact that it rejects information and that the argument is that the young population is involved through the education system. The government advocates a systematic approach and who is responsible, i.e. who is in charge of financing and training the information system in schools rather than the Government through state budget funds. I think it's a proper interpretation, no matter what the SDP law explains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8604	Okay. It was an interpretation. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovinović is correcting the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8605	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8606	Please turn yourself in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8607	There he is, there's gonna be something. Dear colleague Marija Lugaric said that the government, and we here, would reject this law only because they proposed it or maybe they said it, I don't know, mean languages. But in early February we didn't know about all the debts the previous government left us, I'll only mention one. Convictions in favour of double-crossed high school professors and civil servants who are going to cost this government a lot, and with that money would achieve not only this but a whole series of good ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8608	My colleague, this was a debate. Next up is the HSS Club, Honorable Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8609	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is a pleasure to listen here today to how we have actually introduced a number of personal deductions in the past, as we have increased from 1.200,00 to 1.500,00 kuna, just as we have managed to do something about health care deductions and how sensitive we have been to areas of social care, so as not to mention here, but to say this, we have reduced the base for salaries of employees, for rewards to students, for education and for professional training, for research and development, and it is important to mention again that we have also reduced the government's contributions to pension and health insurance in the past term by 2+2%. I would actually say that it was balanced, that we took care of the development and social moment as far as income tax is concerned. It is equally important that we have recently moved a personal deduction for the pensioners, but I believe that this time further shifts are needed for the economy, i.e. a further increase in personal deduction, but here is a relatively bad position, which is in direct correlation with VAT. But we will all agree here that wages are still in the gray economy zone in the economy. Often we mention that craftsmen cheat on the state, and no one actually wonders whether they are forced to cheat on the state because in the vicinity of Croatia the state is the most expensive in terms of obligations. I estimate that 80% of them cheat on the state because they're fighting for existence, and 20% because they have some extra effects. There's actually one truth, to cheat or fail a matter of calculations. But even if it's cash payouts, it's actually an extra cost again, and I estimate that it's not too cost-effective. Here we now want to define gross wages and we want to help the economy in such a way that we increase net wages by 4%. It's actually a very simple proposal and it's going towards improving the changes to the Income Tax Act as the previous government did. The fact that we have to go through changes to the law on the financing of the unit of local self-government is not too difficult because it is easy to resolve and in this law we can find that the state takes too much of itself, and we leave too little for local self-government units because their participation in the country's total budget cake is all about 9%, and it is time to make some extra shifts here and not just swear that we love our cities, municipalities and counties and that we should give them something more for transfers and capital investments. What we're going to stand for is simply to force the taxpayers to keep thinking about this segment of increasing personal deduction. We've increased it, and once again I'm going to say from 1.250,00 to 1.500,00 kuna, it's time to make further moves. But let's give ourselves a goal. I suggest that we tie the increase to the average net personal income for the previous year if we know that he is somewhere on the 3.900,00 kuna for last year, we are now at 38% of the tax deductions. I think the goal should be 50% to just solve this area of the gray economy, to motivate entrepreneurs and craftsmen to report both workers and make full wages. Therefore, in front of the HSS Club, I suggest that we consider an increase of 250 kuna in this year, to give ourselves a goal to increase by another 250 kuna next year, so we would come to about 50% of the net salary for the previous year in the economy. I believe that's an objective goal. I'm sure that's exactly what entrepreneurs expect from us, and of course it will benefit not only entrepreneurship but also the state and even in a direct way. Through these measures, we will make a move that is expected of us. It would probably be good to repeat what I said yesterday that we are doing in the context of tax reform and to think about the VAT rate whether we should reduce it and how much, but also think about tax reform of all other laws. As regards the SDP proposal for these additional reductions in personal deductions for the costs of buying personal computers, components and programmes, or for paying foreign language courses. I don't think we can just defend it by the fact that we're going to make it even more difficult for the tax administration to work. This is simply a small shift where we need to change the situation completely safely in this sector, because I will never accept the fact that we need to and must be satisfied with the state of public institutions where we actually have 30 and some computers per child who are about 3.5 to 4 years old on average. We know that these are actually computers of a generation that can no longer perform demanding things especially as far as software and speed, so of course we have to change them. The tax administration will adapt to how it has adapted for all of these changes that we have talked about so far and we have boasted that they are good so that I suggest that we all try to make an additional move together and engage in personal deductions and the purchase of personal computers, but also that we pay foreign language courses to those who want to do so in order to allow one normal approach to what is necessary and that is a foreign language in the function of what is before us is entering Europe and one simpler and one better, more quality and faster integration into the global world. As a result, the HSS club will make a proposal for an untaxable part of the personal income to go with an increase of 250 kuna not 500. We suggest that for next year it will also be 250 kuna with the aim of obliging government and taxpayers to make it 50% of the net personal income for the past year and we fully support the possibility of buying personal computers and foreign language courses with the use of personal deductions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8610	Thank you very much, colleague. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Agent Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8611	Mr. Pecek's lost a lapus. We don't have 30 wholes and some computers per child but vice versa. 30.5 children come to one computer. It's only for the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8612	Thank you very much, dear fellow Stazic. On behalf of club IDS representative Walter Drandić. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8613	Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. These two Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act of the IDS Club shall take into account the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. In this regard, the IDS Club supports these two legislative proposals because you know that we at the IDS Club are opposed to the practice that the state is constantly changing the sources of funding of local self-government units. This means that we support these two legislative proposals, but absolutely related to this next law which regulates the financing of units of local and regional self-governments, as the promoters have said, and in this sense we support these two legislative proposals, and this means that the IDS club supports the proposed promises of personal deductions to taxpayers, which in its law proposes a SDP investment club on behalf of the purchase of a personal computer, computer component and programme, and that we also support the proposed deductions for the costs incurred by paying foreign language courses and information education either for the obligor or for a child who supports. A lot has already been said about the importance of information literacy on the use of computer technology, about the need for knowledge of foreign languages. We believe that these are the skills that we absolutely need today for the citizens of Croatia, for us as a small country, which is open, which is a tourist perspective absolutely requires knowledge and language and as high as possible level of computer literacy and the use of modern technologies. The IDS also supports the proposal of the HNS Representatives Club of the PGS and the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA to increase the basic personal deduction for the tax on income from 1.500,00 to 22.00 kuna which simply means bigger salaries for citizens for us and I think there is an entire logic and it doesn't take much philosophy to understand this. However, when we talk about income tax itself, we want to say a few things about it. Income tax is the main income of local and regional self-government units, and today we have a situation where they still have almost no impact on the level of that tax, and this is one of the key problems in funding units of local and regional self-government, and I repeat again that the IDS club supports these legal proposals, but regarding the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government units, which provides for greater participation of municipalities, cities and counties in the distribution of income taxes, and this is a condition that we can also adopt such proposals legally, because otherwise, by reducing the income of municipalities, cities and counties, we will compromise their functioning. In fact, the real question is when will real decentralisation be carried out in Croatia and when the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the obligations and rights of units of local and regional self-government through appropriate legal solutions will be implemented truly in practice. We at the IDS Club believe it is extremely important for Croatia to take over their constitutional powers as soon as possible and provide them with adequate resources to carry out these activities. Not funds like so far by regulating and determining the state but by means of funds primarily through an income tax instrument, a cut, but not in a way that the state can constantly influence the level of that tax, but that it is in the autonomous self-government of local and regional self-government that can independently influence its decisions on the level of tax and thus create conditions for work and life in its area, depending on the specificities, specific needs of a municipality, city or county. This means that we from the IDS Club and we have said this several times, we believe that in Croatia, it is necessary, apart from the even development that we all talk about, to create competition and competition between municipalities, between cities, in a way that they independently create competitive conditions for the development of certain activities for which they have specific advantages in their area, which they want to develop in their area and that the very instrument of an independent autonomous tax policy can be a strong development generator in line with the needs of the administration of a particular local or regional environment. That's the point of decentralisation. To leave not only greater responsibilities and powers as we today have, for example, in health care, in school, in fire, in some other activities, but also to leave resources, but not in a way that decides on the means of state, but to decide on it independently, clearly in certain frameworks, local and regional self-government, to decide on their own municipalities, cities, counties. We must finally give confidence to lower levels of government and relieve this country of a job that can be done at a lower level in municipalities, cities and counties. If yesterday and today we add up the effects of the laws we're discussing in these two days, then I have to say it looks very good. We have a first reduction in VAT base rate from 22% to 20%, we have an introduction of a 12% VAT rate for agriculture, food and tourism, we have an extension of the zero VAT rate to children's needs and newspapers, we have an increase in personal income tax deduction from a thousand to 2,000 kuna, we have an increase in personal deduction for the purchase of computers, computer components and programs. We have an increase in personal deduction for learning foreign languages and information education and in the following law we have an increase in the share of municipalities, cities and counties in the distribution of income taxes. It looks almost ideal. Unfortunately, almost none of that will be accepted, that's the problem. And the question is how to stimulate development, employment, the introduction of modern technologies in this country, how to help and facilitate the life of the socially most vulnerable categories of citizens, the unemployed, the pensioners, but not just them. And many who work for very low wages today, and in particular, we rarely find solutions to how to help young people. How to help young people who are starting a life of their own, who are looking for a job, or who have managed to find a job for them, began to work. How can these young people create conditions for their own life, for establishing a family, for their children, for buying and equipping an apartment and for other purposes? In this regard, the IDS Club proposes that the legislators of the Law to increase the personal deduction consider that, if it comes to it clearly, this Law extends the possibility for this personal deduction intended for young people. I mean, yes, for example. Young to say 27 years have a basic personal deduction of up to 3,000 kuna, 3,000 kuna. To help them make more income directly, they have better conditions for solving life’s problems, which, unfortunately, in most cases, are too difficult a challenge for a young man and, unfortunately, we often see them entering other areas of alcohol, drugs, and I don’t know what. Finally, once again, the IDS Club supports these two bill proposals, we support measures that increase citizens' salaries, we support measures that enrich information literacy, knowledge of foreign languages and other knowledge, but related to the Amendments and Supplements Act on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8614	Thank you very much, colleague. Next up's the HSP Club. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8615	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The HSP Club supports the intention contained in these two Bills, meaning, the SDP Club and the HNS, PGS and LIBRE, and considers it a contribution to the debate and contribution to the reform of the entire tax system in the country. And therefore, we rightists as the backbone of the Croatian Parliament call on colleagues and colleagues from both left and right to focus on their energy in terms of discussion and improvement, that is, reform of the entire tax system because Croatian citizens expect to improve their standard of living, and they are not ready and they cannot look at the bitter debate and the loss of energy to replicas, corrections, injuries to the Rules of Procedure and so on. So, let's commit ourselves and do what the Constitution has given us on our mission. And so, the first thing that's important in all of this is to say that we know that the tax system, today as we have, is the purpose of just filling the state budget. Our tax system is a developmental system, our tax system is social. In order to get 324 thousand unemployed to use these benefits proposed by the SDP Club, to use pensioners who have thousands and 700 kuna pensions, we need to reform the entire tax system in a way that makes the tax system developmental, that the state collects what it belongs to. We talked on behalf of the HSP Club about areas of the grey economy that take on such scales that you saw for yourself how much the state budget loses, and the state still did not ensure the instruments to pick it up. For example, flour is visible only to lose at least a billion kuna on bakery products. Not to mention the situation regarding the tobacco industry and the state audit findings that 550,000 stamps were missing in 2002 on cigarettes and tobacco products. Not to mention cases of excise duties, i.e. during the tourist season, we may find less income from oil and oil costs, which should be more logical. And so yesterday, I also told Minister Shuker on behalf of the HSP Club that we no longer expect Minister Shuker to say what the situation was, which he inherited rather than tell us how he solved the instruments, and we offered him in which way that no longer happens, that the state does not kill for tobacco, that the state does not kill for flour, that the state does not kill from excise duties. And all Croatian citizens expect it from him. This is the only way we can improve the standard of all citizens and we can contribute to finally starting employment. So, development projects and development programmes that will be aimed at, meaning, employment of Croatian people and thus we come to the conclusion that in such a unique overall tax system where we will have payment instruments, where we will know how and how, most people will be able to use tax benefits to obtain what the SDP Club proposes, and also the HNS Club. So let's focus on it, and that way we'll all contribute together to what we are. Normally, I said it yesterday, it's not surprising either, because we know that the most common words that Minister Shucker has been repeating lately, there's no money, no, no, no, no, no, no, no money, which I say we welcome, because we first got a non-disputed finance minister, which is proof that it means taking care of taxpayers, and we know that the state budget is primarily filled up on the basis of taxpayers. So in this sense, let's continue to discuss how to get the right tax system, to get the tax system where all these proposals will be incorporated. and thus allow what is most important right now for all Croatian citizens to improve their standards, because then we will be able to get pensions up, that the government fulfils its obligation to its coalition partner of the SDSS to build and rebuild all those houses, without going to the expense and burden of the pensioners, not to go to the defenders' burden, but to make things a basis, to really start Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8616	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up for the debate Club LIBRE, representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8617	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, and there is no government representative, even though the government has indicated in its opinions that the Minister, Secretary of State and Assistant will participate in the name of the Government, and of course it is not good. And as the government refers to the proposals of representatives of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the clubs are shown by the reasons, I will, of course, say a little more about these proposals. I am speaking, therefore, on behalf of the Club LIBRE at the same time as the Proposer, but of course I will use this opportunity to say something about the proposed income tax law, which was proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. First of all, several additional views on the proposal of the Income Tax Act, the joint proposal of the PGS and LIBRE Clubs. Mr. Representative Cacic, then Mr. Lesar speaking on behalf of the club, I mean well presented this law. But some things that concern the law itself should certainly be emphasized.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8618	My colleagues and colleagues, I have the special honour and pleasure to welcome the president of the Hungarian National Assembly, Mrs. Katilin Szili, who is on an official visit to Croatia, so please welcome her Dear President Szili, welcome to the Croatian Assembly. [[Applause]] We're going back to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8619	So, speaking of the proposal of the Income Tax Act on the Law, there were speeches yesterday when we discussed the Government's proposal and SDP's proposal to reduce value added tax. There are a few very important things to repeat. It should certainly be said that it is very questionable what will benefit from the reduction of VAT from 22% to 20% to citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the economy which is equally or even more important? The main thesis is that by reducing this tax, the state will give up 3 billion kuna, all in favour of the extra profit of traders who can and do not have to return to the economy, and in particular it is not necessary to cut prices, this depends on a number of factors that exist on the market, how competitive they are, how strong their market position is. Not to mention that the owners of the trade chains are foreigners, so part of that profits, extra profits, instead of ending up in the pockets of citizens of the Republic of Croatia through price cuts, will actually end up as extra profits from foreign owners of the trade chains. and in a democratic state such as Croatia no one can force them except for the economic legality that they are turning this VAT reduction into a price reduction, which means raising the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In contrast, the proposal, which in this sense is highly speculative, should be said that the increase in the non-taxable part of income is a sure gain for either the citizens of the Republic of Croatia or the economy of the Republic of Croatia. As we know, most trade union agreements with the government, or the state as an employer, are based on gross wages. If, therefore, gross wages are fixed and there is a reduction in the non-taxable part, it is a direct increase in the net salary of all employees in the state services of the Republic of Croatia and there is no possibility of eskicipation. That state as an employer can't eskicipate. Therefore, this is a direct positive consequence for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As regards employers who are not related to such trade union relations and contracts, they can either act the same as the state, which means keeping the same gross salary and increasing the net salary, which is then the same positive consequence given the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Or if they don't, I can't completely avoid the effects of this law, then I can keep the same net salary and cut gross wages. As a consequence, there is, of course, a reduction in labour prices and, of course, the resulting growth in the economy of the Republic of Croatia. So, in our circumstances in which we are present in the Republic of Croatia, given the development of economic life, competitiveness, etc. It is absolutely much better to reduce income tax, as proposed by the Club of Representatives of libre, HNS and PGS. There was talk here about not all of it, when it comes to this law for the benefit of citizens, and it is not all about the proposal for a VAT reduction law to the benefit of citizens. It's true it's not everything. But a huge part of the effects of this law will be in favour of citizens and most of the effects of VAT reduction will not be in favour of citizens. Of course some merchant will get a part of it for his business. But I repeat in terms where you do not have the possibility of any state coercion, and of course we do not have it as a democratic country, most of it will go into personal consumption or extra profit which unfortunately does not end in the economy of the Republic of Croatia, but in foreign countries. So that's why we think this proposal is absolutely superior to the government's proposal. When I spoke earlier about the lack of government representatives, then I will show how the government explains the proposals. Representatives are often unable to give accurate analytical data to the end of what some proposal means. Of course not, because they don't have all the instruments. But in that case, when giving reasons, positive or negative, the government should specify exactly what it means. The law cannot be talked about, for example, about this law that we are proposing, saying that there will be a reduction of revenues in the state budget and nothing more. The government should, as in the case of a law proposing to the SDP, say what would be the negative effect if it already claims to be a state budget rather than simply saying that there will be a negative impact and nothing more. Well, then of course we here in Parliament and the Croatian public who is monitoring Parliament's work can't really figure out what it is and the government is invited to give that information. Representatives and clubs and Parliament do not have the instrumentation to give such reasons. And especially as the Government responds to the Law on Changed Income Tax that one final bureaucratic argument completely forgets that this Law is related to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units and says that this law will reduce the income of local self-government units and, of course, parallel law, which is the whole, and things of course should be looked at as a whole and not individually bureaucratic, this law leads to an increase in the income of local self-government. And I think it might be an even more important dimension of this law than the first one I've ever talked about. According to the data. Of course, there will be speeches when we talk about the law. According to the Council of Europe several years ago, from 40 member states according to the share of the income of local self-government units, which means the degree of decentralised the Republic of Croatia was approximately 30. It is a position that is not such that they could be satisfied with it and even though some shifts have been made in this regard in recent years, the transfer of total income tax revenue to local self-government units is a major step in the decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia. And if in this sense we want to follow modern world trends and especially European trends, then we need to do so and there is no doubt that it will be done. It's a trend we can't resist, it's just a question of when the government will be able, in a position of having enough courage to take that step. So, these are all reasons why, therefore, as a proponent and of course also as a representative of the Club of Libre, I advocate that this law be adopted and that this is actually what the Minister of Finance has announced to be the first more serious, stronger procedure, not only in tax reform in the Republic of Croatia but the biggest step we have ever taken since the continuation of the Croatian state in decentralisation, which is of course a trend which, as I said, is not necessary and cannot be taken. In the second part, I would say something about income tax, the Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by the SDP Club, which we, of course, fully support. The law therefore states that an untaxable part of income should be increased by 12,000 kuna, 2 years old, or 12,000 kuna per year in the case of high and primary schools. And this Law is fully in the trend of what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. We do not stand especially in terms of our place on the scale of internetisation in Europe but we are moving forward. When you look at the data presented by the applicant, you can see that in 2001 the number was 480,000 Internet connections and in 2001. Six hundred and fifty thousand. So in just one year, a little over one year it's 170 thousand increases which is a huge jump, it's almost 0%. This means that it is a trend that exists in the Republic of Croatia and that this Law is the law that affects exactly the one process that the state needs to help. So, of course, we fully support this solution and urgency and, of course, all evaluations concerning the internetisation of the country of information literacy are mainly about the proposal of the promoters to also cut the tax exemption for learning a foreign language because these are two interlinked things. Of course, language knowledge is much wider than computer knowledge, information literacy but in the modern world of integration and globalisation, which we will not resist as much as anyone thought about it, it is very important that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia especially young citizens know more foreign languages or at least one foreign language. Of course, in this regard we also welcome the Government of Croatia's decision to learn another foreign language in schools as a mandatory subject, but this will therefore be an additional incentive. Because today in Europe you have countries where almost every citizen speaks not one foreign language but speaks 2 or 3 foreign languages. In such a Europe and in such a world, we can be competitive in every sense, both economically and politically and culturally only if our citizens are at that level. Speaking of which, however, there are some things that I think are very, very uncomfortable. The fact that we're 8% of computers according to the proposings is more than devastating in the state administration. We have begun the process of internetization, namely computing, especially in large systems such as the health system. Good projects have been drawn up, business has taken place, by the decision of the Minister this year and unfortunately we have confirmed this in the state budget, we have stopped this process of computerisation, the health system of the Republic of Croatia more and less. It'll cost us dearly. If you can't save anywhere, if you can't be restrictive somewhere, then it's an investment in the information of a state administration especially one such complicated system as the health system. And these 45 million kunas that we have denied in the state budget this year would be worth it by themselves if I didn't talk about how we run land books in the Republic of Croatia today. The condition that our economy would be competitive, of course the conditions of strengthening and raising standards, the service to the citizens of this country is that they do not come in the morning at half past nine or at what hours our grants are opening where a few dozen or hundreds of people are waiting to get something that the state has to give him by logic of things because it has to be at his service and all because our system of land books is not only not arranged but far from it, it is not unfortunately in a more serious phase of handling without talking about the computerisation of all this. Therefore, this information is very defeating and this law, proposed by the SDP's Representatives' Club, actually opens up all these issues. And of course it would be good to talk about being a little more serious about what that computerization really means. She has her own problems, her own difficulties. A few days ago, I met a man on the street who got a phone bill from six thousand kunas. At a time when citizens, therefore, individual users are disfellowshipped from the internet in those 10, 15, or 30 seconds, there is the inclusion of hackers and mergers with some overseas countries, and then it happens that people who have revenues from several thousand kunas get phone bills of 6 or 7 thousand kunas which, of course, they can't pay. As a result, it's a cancellation and internet connection. This is, of course, just an indication that with the new technology, we're getting new problems, and in that sense we're not far away, and when we're talking about all this, we should have that in mind, too. We do not have any law on business, on the security of citizens, on the protection of personal data, on the protection of such breakthroughs in information systems, and, of course, in such conditions when the number of users of the Internet is clearly growing, whether it will support, support or not in such a way as is proposed, it will be a growing and larger problem. Therefore, we should think about it well. In any case, both of these laws, even though the laws are actually the same laws as the names of the law. In fact, they have very different intensities, both of these laws are positive laws and it would be good, therefore, if the Croatian Parliament accepts this law. I repeat my grade once again, it will happen eventually. The sooner it happens to accept laws like this, which, therefore, increase the jurisdiction of local self-government units, reduce the tax burden on citizens and make it easier to obtain information equipment, the Republic of Croatia will have a better perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8620	I thank Mr. Radosh. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Nenad Stazic reported. Here's my colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8621	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. On behalf of the promoter of the SDP Club, I thank all the clubs that participated in this debate. I also thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia who did not send anyone to the Parliament to follow this debate and to take part in it, although in her opinion she stated and appointed the Minister of Finance, Mr Ivan Shuker, and then the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Martin Dalic and Assistant Minister of Finance and Director of the Tax Administration, Mr Ivica Mladine as his representatives in the Assembly during the debate on this agenda point. They would also be useful here because, on behalf of the Club, a colleague, Marija Lugaric, said in the press, signs have appeared that the government itself is considering introducing such tax reliefs. So it would be interesting to find out if the government is sending a message through journalists, and by means of official evidence of such a bill, it's quite the opposite message. And what does the Government actually think about, and in what direction, in terms of tax administration reform, it means to act because we have also read such inscriptions that announce the abolition of all benefits, all rights of deduction and those that today are praised by the HDZ Club. This would be interesting for citizens to hear, interesting to know, whether the return of taxes that will be achieved this year will be possible for the next year. Because it won't, it won't be possible if those benefits are lifted. So we don't know the truth about it yet. It's just writing in the papers, but there's no government representative to tell us the truth, to direct us here to the MPs, but also to the citizens. So they know what's waiting for them. All the representatives' clubs supported this SDP proposal. All except the HDZ Club. And what does the proposal say? What's he offering? It only offers to enable citizens to invest more favourably in the purchase of information equipment and more favourable learning of foreign language. To this end, the HDZ is against allowing citizens to obtain information equipment more favourably and to learn foreign language more favourablely. The HDZ thing of course, it will have to explain to the citizens why they are against it. HDZ also presented some of its reasons. He says it will be done through school programmes, that students will acquire information knowledge and learn a foreign language there. This bill of law doesn't talk about it, he doesn't talk about it at all, it's a missed topic. First of all, it is not true, because how will students acquire sufficient information knowledge when HDZ itself has confirmed and presented the information that 30 and some students come to one computer. Where can they acquire even the most basic knowledge of information on one computer? It's nice that the government intends to increase the number of computers in schools. That's good, that's necessary, no one's got anything against it. But this bill doesn't talk about it at all. He's also talking about a working-age population. So it's about those who finished the schooling process. It allows them to purchase computers cheaper. And why is that? For what? First, to encourage lifelong education, but not because it sounds nice but because the active working population would be more competitive in finding better jobs. Foreign companies are coming to this country, and domestic companies, as I said in the opening statement, already have many of them setting conditions. They won't hire, they won't cooperate with someone who's not informational written and who doesn't know at least one foreign language. He won't be able to get a job there, very simple. He'll be able to be a porter in those companies. Is that what HDZ says to citizens by rejecting this bill? Be a porter because you're not a porter. I'm sorry, there are unemployed people. Let's make them more employable. Let's make them more educated to get a job. Well, that'll work, that'll only work if they're written in information and they know another foreign language. That's what this bill wants to achieve. Mrs. Fuček, on behalf of, speaking on behalf of HDZ, says, "The government is making efforts." The government is making efforts, see, the Central Office for E-Croatia or I-Croatia was established. That's nice, that's gotta say hello. Sure, but that's not enough. You know, it's one thing to inform red tape. And that bureaucracy is in the service of the citizens and it is needed. The information of the state apparatus is needed, we all support it, but this law doesn't talk about it. He's talking about citizens' rights, making it easier for citizens, taxpayers. Therefore, this objection was completely missed because it missed the topic we are talking about here. Says Mrs. Fuchek, there are already deductions, so we don't need to introduce new ones. Nonence. Nonence. The deductions introduced by Racan's government and the parliamentary majority of the previous assembly are the deductions that help citizens solve basic living needs, housing, some health needs, but also education is a need, so we can't say now because we've made it easier for citizens to buy an apartment and solve a housing problem, and now we won't give them education, they're tired of this. Well, that logic is completely wrong. and education is a need and a terrible need. Therefore, the objection brought to HDZ as a completely unfounded waste. And finally, says Mrs. Fuchek, it's a new and unwarranted introduction of privileges. It's new, but it's not justified, it's certainly not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8622	I thank Mr. Stazic. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8623	Madam Vice President, article 214 has been injured, which says, the MP is told a warning if he does not stick to the topic under discussion in his speech. In fact, MP Stazic began to talk about some news speculation, which is not at all the subject of the talks today, or at all talk about what the government will do at some point in time. So you know exactly what the subject is. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8624	Mr. Matušić, I felt that he had no right, that he was not injured by the Rules of Procedure, because it was not about newspaper articles, but about the content of these articles on the subject. And now you have the right to correct the incorrect allegations... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8625	Thank you, Madam Vice President. After this speech bordering on hatred from MP Stazic, I must note that there were so many incorrect allegations that it was very difficult to correct, but let me just have some. In fact, the government, it is incorrect that the government is not for our citizens to get more favourable to computers and certain programmes that would be available to them for their education. On the contrary, the government has its own measures, there are measures that provide for this law to be totally unacceptable. The government has its own measures that it implements through its own ministries and it is quite clear in the programmes. It is also inappropriate to use a profession such as the porters here in a speech that borders the demeaning of the work. And please take care of that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8626	I thank my colleague Matušić. You'll probably see in time that this wasn't so harsh, the hate speech might be too harsh to assess what was said. But you don't agree for sure... Mr. Krunoslav Markovović. [[unheard]] Correction of an incorrect allegation. Here you go, Mr. Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8627	Dear Madam President, here's an incorrect quote from Mr. Honorable Representative Mr. Stazic. Namely, he's counting on the computer, I don't know what data he's got. And since I've worked at school for a number of years, my wife works at school, we know very well how many students she has. And if he meant school and 30 students on one computer, then that's how it is in the IT classrooms, and that's a good one. Because, various numbers are about 23, 24, 25 students. At a school of 1,300 students, you can't expect 1,300 computers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8628	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote, please, was answered by Mrs. Danira Bilic. Here you go, Mrs. Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8629	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I would correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect allegations that the HDZ and the government are against informing Croatia because they do not accept this proposal. I would say that neither the HDZ nor the Government is against the intention of this proposal, but it is against the way in which this problem is resolved selectively. And if it is not against informing Croatia, for example, I will list some examples, the first to continue a special programme of foreign language learning that the past government has started and is improving. And secondly, the Central Office of E Croatia was established, which should give the whole system a way to solve this problem, which I hope it will. And not as in the current documents from 2000 to 2003, for example, the Government of the Office for Development, Information, and Communication Technology, there is a whole package of measures that would lead to a systematic and complete solution to the information problem, but was largely not implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8630	Thank you, Mrs. Bilic. Thank you. On behalf of the promoter of the HNS Club PGS and Club LIBRE, Mr Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8631	I thank my colleagues and colleagues who have discussed our proposal by PGS and LIBRE. And I thank all of them, and they were all the exception of the HDZ Club who supported the proposal. Obviously, I would not go so far as to argue that the HDZ Club refused to support the proposal because it does not want the salaries of all Croatian citizens and incomes to be 4% higher. In order not to be misunderstood, I guess that's what we all want, it's just a question of how we want to get to that, or we think it's the smartest thing to do. I'd just like a few things here from the discussion once again to look back at them. The representative of the HDZ Club, Mrs Fuček, reiterated what the Government said as a key argument, and this is a matter of funding local and regional self-government, and I have definitely revealed this argument in the opening statement as a non-existent, because simply this law goes into a package with the Funding Act and foresees not only that no negative and no harm is happening, but rather an increase in the financing of local and regional self-government and simplification of the whole process, on the one hand. And on the other hand, and one key thing, which is that definitely a full tax other than the part for the settlement fund is left at the level of local regional self-government. So that argument just doesn't stand. I also thank Mrs. Fuček, of course, for having so strongly supported and widely praised the work of the last government by mentioning each and every measure relating to insurance, related to the rental of apartments, related to the purchase of apartments, related to adaptation, these are all accurate findings and I fully agree with Mrs. Fuček. These were the good measures of the last government and I hope they will be detained despite some announcements I hear here that the HDZ government is preparing to abolish it, I hope that's not true. As far as this proposal is concerned. Income tax, as we know, we have out of non-permanent work, independent activity, property, capital property rights and insurance. This tax in the part of the pension of support and insurance premiums, etc. Now not to mention this year is planned at 2 billion 579 million. From taxes and income cuts in self-employed activities, 370 are forecasted, i.e. free trades, income from agriculture and forestry income from other independent activities, 389,6 million. Tax revenue and a cut on property income and property rights of 44.2 million. From the capital that I'm now not citing all 91.8 million. And by the year's line 123 million. Tax revenue and a cut in the supervision process of 7.8 million. A return, so negative point 277. All of this together will be about 5% reduced compared to the execution in 2003 due to the amendments already mentioned here and the addition of the Income Tax Act. And in that sense, of course, once again confirms our calculation, which is a billion 750 million from these numbers, it's completely evident, a billion and 750 million kuna damage, conditionally said for the state fill-up of the budget, and that's then very important and I underline it to compare it to 3 billion damage per budget, resulting from a reduction in VAT from 22 to 20%. So, one more time. 2% of VAT is lower, i.e. 2 points in VAT are less than 86 kuna higher in the pockets of an average family. It's a shame by the budget of 3 billion kuna. 4% higher in salary pockets through this Law that we offer here are 212 kunas in citizens' pockets directly and only a billion and 750 million less in the budget. All this together in the Law that we offer is undeniable and quite certain because it directly ends in the pockets of citizens because the gross and net ratios are at stake. There are no intermediaries and in the proposal offered by the Government, which VAT is reduced by 2 points, we have an intermediary, it's a trade and the question of whether this effect and these 86 kunas will be less effective than what we're offering if this effect is going to happen. Here, I think these are the key signs and I'm drawing them here one more time. What I would like to say here or here in the discussion is that the last government had the same promise most of the parties had in the campaign a promise of VAT cuts, the past government did not keep its promise through a reduction in VAT but in a much larger amount reduced the total tax burden because it estimated that this was more important for Croatian citizens and for the Croatian economy. The 2% reduction in health contributions alone and 2% less contribution to pension insurance corresponds to 2% of VAT only those two contributions are equal to 2% of VAT but should have been able to bite the acid apple, not keep an election promise but to realize something that benefits citizens and the economy. It was not easy because this one, we were already talking about this gross income, that measure could remain in the pockets of only employers, therefore, stimulate the economy, the competitiveness of the economy, because when you reduce the contributions then the employer can keep it all and not give it to the employee. So the sour apple was bitten by the last government. This time we do not offer this government and this majority of the parliamentary acid apple, we offer a sweet apple because this measure, this reduction from the base for the collection of income taxes, brings directly 4% increase in wages and incomes to citizens. So nobody can take it away from them, so here is something that absolutely and undeniably raises the standard of citizens to a much greater extent than a reduction in VAT. The only thing is that the government has to admit and accept that it misjudged when it went with electoral and post-election promises and with this bill because it's simply if someone really knows the mechanisms of government not good. It is my suggestion that in time a mistake is seen, the government now has the opportunity to learn things that until yesterday she did not know and to do something useful through the decision of her parliamentary majority, something useful for the citizens by accepting these laws that we have proposed once again, and our support for the law proposed by the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8632	I thank Mr. Chacic. Mrs. Fuchek came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8633	Madam Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of representative Cacic, who said that the key argument for not accepting their bill was a loss in the financing of local self-government units. This is one of the arguments and one is also a loss in the central state budget which has not been challenged and that the Government has compensated for the reduction of VAT and, in this regard, the increase in citizens' standards as well as its 4% in this proposal. Secondly, allow me, once the Parliament adopts the laws they are Croatian laws. And regardless of who brought them in last term, this government must secure funds from the budget for the budget during that period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8634	I thank Mrs. Fuchek for the first part of correcting the incorrect quote. We're moving on to an individual debate now. For the first individual debate, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić answered, please welcome Mr. Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8635	Thank you, Madam Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Investment in education is the most profitable investment, so it is of course of national interest to encourage citizens to become educated and thus increase their competences, thus certainly the prospect of employment, i.e. those who are employed to develop their careers in accordance with their needs and wishes. We heard from a representative of the ruling majority statistics on the number of PCs in schools. Those numbers don't say anything. When does it add up, when was the last time you were in an elementary or high school? Have you seen the information cabinets in those schools? Do you know which configuration, what is the configuration of these PC computers? Do you know the size of the screen on those PCs? Do you know or even that the vast majority of computers in primary schools make up 4.8.6? And what kind of software does 4.8.6 have in mind? For example, in my city, most of the information cabinets we have obtained donations, sponsorships and then computers that have satisfactory configurations that can respond to primary schools, unfortunately high school students today have much greater needs for better configuration and better software. Students and students in schools and colleges are now inaccessible and personal computers and internet access. Because what little there is, computers in elementary schools and colleges can only be used during regular classes and it is certainly insufficient for one or two hours, or two hours. And the Internet is used by HT donations, which is measured in minutes. So Internet access is measured in minutes. Hardware and software are both insufficient in primary, secondary schools and in colleges. Can today's high school student, which is therefore a Croatian citizen we expect to endure the development of this country, so can he gain the necessary knowledge without a computer? If we agree that there are insufficient or inadequate hardware and software in high schools or is insufficiently available to him, the question arises whether parents can buy him a computer and whether they can buy parents software for that computer so that he can do at home what he might do at school. Or certainly so that he could access the Internet and collect knowledge across the world that is available today via the Internet, not just reading from textbooks that his parents of course buy or book that he can borrow in the library. Of course, part of parents can do that and that part of parents can buy new, new generations of PCs and upgrade software almost annually, but the vast majority of parents can't do that. He can't do and because I spoke yesterday and today I repeat, the average salary in Croatia is 3 995 kuna and those who know you need two average salaries for a personal computer, unfortunately you need two average salaries to buy Microsoft office. The software's expensive. And then of course you need to have more money to buy, to pay bills to access the Internet. Here today, the SDP bill says that it is precisely a team that cannot buy today, or it is difficult to buy, that personal computers and software are made available to them. Because we want parents who are worse material status, that their children do not suffer because of it and that these children in the future have equal chances of employment because they will be able to have competencies like other children whose parents can provide both PC and computer and IT courses. So that's what we're talking about here today. There is almost no such important investment in this country as investment in knowledge. Well, since we already have tax breaks, I have no rational reason not to introduce tax reliefs on what the SDP has suggested. As far as foreign languages are concerned, the education system is completely inadequate. We have only since this school year received foreign language learning in the first grade, but only in those schools where we meet those powers, where we can meet the human needs. Unfortunately, we have a school where there are no teachers. On the other side of the language because the first is probably English, there is not a word left except in rare examples of private schools or places where local self-government units support it. Do we even know how many citizens of Croatia attend foreign language courses with payment, of course? We could probably get to that information somehow. I suppose we do, but do we even know the need for citizens of Croatia who would like to take foreign language courses but are not available to them? I can't spare money to pay myself or children to attend foreign language courses. That is why the SDP bill speaks of making foreign language courses more accessible to Croatian citizens. I'll be a little cynical. Why is it more important to HDZ that the customers of the cars I spoke about yesterday at the purchase of those 60 cars of 50,000 euros in VAT alone, by reducing the rate from 22 to 20, but they don't care about making more available PCs, software, information and foreign language courses for people who will never think of buying such a car. What is more important in this Croatia? To buy expensive yachts and expensive cars or to get our children educated, to educate the unemployed, to educate employees and make up, to increase their ability to compete? Why, then, is it more important to buy yachts and cars from software, from hardware and from attending courses of computer descriptor and foreign languages? Today in this Law we are not discussing tax reliefs here, we are discussing the speed of development of Croatia. This Law speaks of how quickly we want Croatia to develop. And for this reason, I appeal to you to support this law, this law does not harm the state budget. This Law brings enormous benefits to the state budget in both the first year and the following year of application of this Act. Because the fact that these Croatian citizens who gain these skills will return to this country is more than a possible tax relief that they will achieve. The debate yesterday and today is actually a debate on two concepts of tax policy in Croatia. One tax concept that the HDZ suggests is that we all get 2% more. So, both those who have nothing and those who have 4 thousand, an average of 4 thousand kuna and we who have 12, 13, 14 and those who have 40 or 100 thousand kuna more, receive. Of course 2% will have a different impact on all of us, but what the opposition suggests is that those who have fewer and harder to live to get more tax reform, and the rich are still rich. It doesn't matter who can buy a car for 50,000 euros, they can buy for both 49 and 57. He doesn't care. Therefore, support the proposal for a law that will allow, the bill proposals that will allow citizens with 4, with 5 thousand kunas to get 10, 12, 14% more. I fully support the HNS and PGS's proposal to increase the tax base, but I believe that this will be strongly supported by the Croatian Retired Party as it cannot be allowed to discriminate in this country with tax returns based on whether or not it is done, whether or not a pension is received. Therefore, I appeal to the Croatian party of pensioners to support the same as we do to increase the untaxable part of pensions, so that they now support the increase in the untaxable share of salaries. At least that much solidarity I would expect on, from the Croatian party of pensioners in this House. Otherwise, I agree with the fact that this law will have a negative impact on local budgets, but this negative effect will be adjudicated by the adoption of the law that follows us, which is the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. And they should be discussed in the package, but it would be good, I end up, it would be good if we never again in this House to adopt any law that has a negative impact on the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties without taking responsibility for the state budget for the resolution of this deficit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8636	I thank my colleague Mršić. The replica was first answered by Mrs. Fuchek. Here you go, Mrs. Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8637	Mr Mršić, you pointed out in your debate that the SDP proposal is exclusively focused and that it is about the speed of Croatia's development. Our argument of not accepting the law also refers to the rapid development of Croatia. Why? Which first and through which the development of Croatia is implemented, if not through the education system, means increased investment in the education system. The figures I have presented on indicators of the presence of computer and equipment in schools are figures that show insufficientness and no positiveness, which means that with what we're investing now, it's not enough. That investment in the state budget will still be needed in order to achieve the European average and to get closer to those standards. That's the point, and in that sense, I think you can't abuse these numbers and use them in your own argument that you think will benefit politically. Second, I was recently, two weeks ago, say, in IV. The high school which, in Zagreb, is certainly not an example of the average equipment of our schools because it is far better equipped...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8638	Time, Mrs. Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8639	...and we have to stand up for...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8640	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8641	..better equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8642	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Mr. Mršić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8643	Well, esteemed colleague Fuček, I invite you to come and see the Koprivnica high school where the 25 classrooms go to 86 classrooms. The class takes place in three shifts. I don't know if you know what it means to organize class in three shifts. Unfortunately, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not support a project to build a new high school in Koprivnica. Therefore, children will have to go on three shifts again, and most computers or possibly all the computers in 3 schools in that building were bought by the city and the county. Therefore, only so much for the support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Not that we have a school with 486, but we have a school with no computers, not just a satisfactory computer configuration in it. But what my colleague Stazic said, so this is not just about those who go to school, it is about all Croatian citizens, because all Croatian citizens have a need to describe or have a need to raise their level of information literacy. Unfortunately, too few Croatian citizens have computers, it can be used. And those who have, they would certainly like to buy new software, get acquainted with new programs, or make the Internet more accessible to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8644	I thank my colleague Mršić. Mr Matušić reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mr. Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8645	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Indeed, a speech that follows the tradition of the brightest party speeches to be imputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8646	Stick to why you called, colleague Matušić, it is always the safest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8647	In which everything and everything is imputed to the HDZ and, among other things, it is incorrectly said that HDZ does not care about computer descripting, internationalisation, etc. Well, there's only one data from the budget that we brought to the last session. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in the information infrastructure programme stands out 115 million kuna. So you can see exactly how much will be invested in computer programs, in the purchase of computer equipment, etc. Your claim that HDZ doesn't care is completely incorrect. You didn't care, because you could have done it in the last term. The HDZ will therefore invest heavily.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8648	Mr. Matušić, stick to correcting the incorrect allegations, as I said, is the safest. Thank you very much. Next is the debate of Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8649	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. For two days, we are discussing two types of tax, value added tax and income tax, and these tax debates would have an effect if they were used in a way that we have defined economic policy, i.e. economic measures that will be in the function of speeding up economic growth. In fact, when we adopted the budget, we saw that the government in its projections actually projected a slowdown in economic growth. If we are not to take these measures, and in this sense, in the context of these measures and changes in tax policy, then this will no longer be a slowdown, but in a year or two, we will return to a period of economic downturn, not growth. and if we are now comparing these two proposals of yesterday's value added tax, today income tax, then you would have decided more and more in person in this economic situation where Croatia is to change income tax rather than reduce value added tax. The reason is that yesterday, I said, the value added tax is neutral for the economy and for entrepreneurs, for the citizens unfair, because they do not pay it according to their economic strength, but is paid by all those who buy a particular product equally. When it comes to income tax and these reliefs we're talking about right now, then it seems to me that there are certain misunderstandings on purpose or not on purpose. When you talk about how much the government will invest from the information budget, when you talk about what it is in schools, and what it will do tomorrow in schools in terms of learning foreign languages or computer descriptiveness, then it has nothing to do with this proposal that is referred to as value added tax and the reliefs that are proposed here. Because these are tax breaks for a taxpayer, so personally for anyone who pays taxes, it has nothing to do with education, it has nothing to do with the state budget, in that sense. So, when we propose in this SDP proposal further relief, and in the proposal of the CNS PGS and LIBRE clubs to increase the personal tax deduction, for the taxpayer, then we are fully in line with the system that exists on income tax. So he knows on one side a personal deduction, so that's this proposal under number 12, and he knows special reliefs, that's this bill that carries the number 44. Therefore, there is no breach in the current income tax system. In this way, by increasing the net personal income in one example, we would not burden the entrepreneur with this amount of personal income increase in order to increase his labour price in the calculation of his product or service. On the other hand, they would allow the taxpayer, either personally or for a child holding back, to benefit from tax relief if he or she would not only use him as a taxpayer for paying foreign language courses, information education or for obtaining information equipment and programs. So that's the difference. And that's what I'm saying is intentional or not intentional misunderstanding and let's call this one a misunderstanding. And now let's look at how the government explains why we shouldn't accept these proposals. It explains in this proposal given by the SDP Club, in order not to achieve the intended purpose. He says more informational literacy and better knowledge of the foreign languages of the taxpayer. It's a subjective court. It depends on anyone who decides to study, so they will either learn a foreign language or learn informationally, whether it will raise the level of his knowledge. It has nothing to do with anyone but who will, who will decide on such an additional education. He also says that they are related to the expenditure incurred during the tax year by the taxpayer, not by the members of his family. We don't even claim anything else. Because we're talking about income tax that only applies to the taxpayer. I think so. When you go looking at it like that, then really the one who wrote an explanation of why you reject a law and then the government accepted it later, really didn't give you any effort, which actually says that you don't want to go "to reform the tax system". I said yesterday it wasn't a tax system reform. It is still said, when it comes to education and tax relief for these types of education, that this mainly applies to the working-active population. Well, that's exactly where the extra education is needed. Because one part of the entrepreneurs will invest in the additional education of their employees, but it is known that the entrepreneur will choose whom he will pay for education. The top line of the manager and maybe to the middle level of the manager, the rest won't. Others will have to make their own efforts to gain additional knowledge so that they can get a better job with an existing entrepreneur or elsewhere. And that's exactly, the accent is that it's made possible by the working population. And when we talk about income tax, then it's necessary to talk about decentralisation in this system of our financing of the expensive administration and locale. And it really should be seen to what level income from income tax to the central state and how much to bring it down to local and regional self-government because it is a direct stimulation of local and regional self-government to take more care of the economy and employment in its area. More employees include higher incomes both to local and regional self-government and by looking at differences or participation in the state budget of VAT revenue and income income, I think that the free state could give up most of the income income and thus resolve this problem, the problems that many local and self-government have in revenue and the lack of income precisely on this basis. So, of course, since it's working out that one of these proposals is also my club's proposal that I support both the bill and the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8650	Thank you, Mrs. Zgrebec. Mrs Katarina Fuček reported to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8651	Madam Vice-President, I would like to correct the incorrect quote of my colleague Zgrebec, who in her statement said that by proposing existing tax laws, that is, by not accepting them, she is provoking a slowdown in economic growth. This is not true, since this government has its projection of economic growth drivers precisely through the proposed VAT reduction law proposal. Since it wants to run that circle, that economic, economic wheel, reduced price, increased purchasing power, increased demand, and also produced and employed. Secondly, 3.6 billion she has invested in Croatian ladyships, I think there is enough projection of driving development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8652	Mrs. Fuchek, this second is not a correction to an incorrect quote. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8653	I'm referring to article 209 because I didn't actually say what my colleague Fuček was correcting me, I just said that the government was in projections, macroeconomic indicators in budget projections, I pointed out in the state budget, and it's true. Because instead of 5% of how projected growth and achievement were in 2003, the 2004 projection of social gross product growth was 3.2%.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8654	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. The following came to the hearing by Ms Milanka Opačić. Here you go, Mrs. Opacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8655	First of all, I would like to say that this is the 4th law that the SDP gives in the process and gives primarily, it's about the law as well as all the previous ones that we have proposed that enable certain people, the category of the population, those who are somewhere with smaller incomes so that they can bear much easier and burden on the VAT that we talked about yesterday and here today so that they can get a personal computer for themselves and for their children and so that they can learn foreign languages cheaper. This is what we were offered for bringing in certain documents in this House that oblige us to implement exactly these laws but also the awareness that we have a very poor education structure in the Republic of Croatia that we will not be able to go far ahead with. Today in Croatia, we have 18% of those who have not finished primary school, which is a very large percentage, we have about 40% of those who have completed primary school and unfortunately only 7% of those who have higher education, who have graduated from college. All of this shows a very humiliating case of education in the Republic of Croatia and shows that something needs to be done in that part. If that were the case, the National Competitiveness Council, which put together its 55 measures a month ago, therefore made certain recommendations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in which to move and what to do to make Croatia as competitive as possible on the European world market. So, for example. The National Competitiveness Council also lists the degree of education of the population in Croatia as one of three key components of its strategic goals for increasing the quality of life. One of the measures also discusses how encouraging donations from the economy can help achieve the goal and should help to reach the standard of finding a computer for every 5 students in secondary education. There is something about information literacy here and here could be found in the explanation of this SDP law, which shows that a very small number of computers, so today in the Republic of Croatia, so somewhere around 700 thousand personal computers are 42%, 46% in the economy and 8% in the state administration and public institutions. Namely, information literacy, and I guess it's clear to all of us here today that you can access the labour market at all just as well as knowing at least one foreign language. When you open a newspaper today, any ad you find you will see that one of the two conditions is therefore, with a certain expertise and knowledge of the work on the PC and knowledge of, therefore, one, at least one foreign language. It is precisely because many countries are aware that IT education is a condition for entering and surviving the labour market that many countries have a strategy to increase the number of personal computers. They do it in a wide variety of ways, they do it in many countries and as we have suggested, so by releasing a part of the income tax to settle the budgets, so our families and to find a financial space for the purchase of personal computers. We have also brought in a document in the Croatian Parliament over the past year, which is therefore Croatia's 21st century strategy entitled "Information and Communication Technology" in which it is recommended no. 4. written that it will enable all citizens to access and participate in the information society by developing information and communication infrastructure throughout the country, particularly with the concern of young people and citizens of the weaker property situation. Therefore, this is something that has been unanimously voted in this House over the past year and therefore obliges the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament to implement it equally. This law of ours, therefore, is on the trail of this and there is no argument that this law is not accepted except for the exclusive political one, which is that it does not want to pass the law just because it was written by the SDP, therefore, one at the moment by the opposition party. On this occasion, I would like to say that in the past four years we have made a very big step forward, that the government has introduced an internet network, that a completely different, therefore, modern way of working within the government, its individual resolutions, therefore, certain, therefore, works of public, public administrations which, therefore, were connected to the government. If a big step had been made in this House, unfortunately we have now returned four years back again because we have spent about 300 thousand euros in this House for an electronic vote. Unfortunately, since the first session of the new session of the Parliament, we've been working again as if in a stone age, we're voting again to raise our hands in this Assembly, to count it manually somewhere. That these screens here actually serve only to turn them on occasionally and look at each other somewhere, not just like this live, but also on screens. These screens serve and should serve for something else entirely. And that's that this Assembly is finally starting to work in a completely different way, so that on these screens today's agendas we're going to discuss can be read on the same screens and some amendments that are being voted on. That on these same screens here, instead of standing here for decorations, you can also read the order of those who are enrolled for discussion, not that every time we run here for the presidential table and ask who we are next to discuss. So, all this money we have invested in will have to be explained to Croatian citizens by someone from this building, which is why 300,000 euros from their pocket are untapped and why the Croatian Parliament is working, so it works without everything that is built in here and thus could be facilitated and accelerated by the work of the Croatian Parliament. The situation is just as bad and you could say even worse when you look at the knowledge of foreign languages. According to us, therefore, our citizens on average spend only 150 kunas. So there's very little room for foreign language education. Also, we all know, regardless of what we have introduced foreign languages to schools, that this is not enough for the quality of foreign language learning and that additional education is needed which, of course, must be paid, and therefore, we have decided that even in foreign languages, we have decided to make it possible to release, therefore, to pay a part of the income tax for our citizens, because there is really no future for Croatia without investment in knowledge, there is no development. So, all those who are systematically dealing with how to boost the economy and development in this country warn that education and investment in the knowledge of the citizens of this country is what is priority and what is the basis for everything. Therefore, it is high time we realized that investment in knowledge, investment in the future, that without that investment and without that development, we would not go forward. And I think that when it comes to education for growth and development, the most expensive thing is to do nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8656	Thank you, Mrs. Opacic. For correction, we have one correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Nenadic reported. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8657	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was the statement of a dear colleague, Opačić, that we were voting as in the Stone Age. How much knowledge I have served from history in the age of stone was not developed democracy and could not be voted by hand, and 300 thousand euros should be asked for those who made the decision on the investment. Thank you. Yeah, thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, these days we've been listening to the care of the poor, the children, the maternity care, and here's the concern for the informational uneducated citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I agree with everything that's been said here as a reason why we should accept these two Amendments and Amendments of the Law if there's nothing else behind it. And let me make a shorter introduction so we can get a bigger picture of what's hidden behind the proposal of these two laws. First of all, we all remember well, it wasn't that long ago, when we had on the parliamentary benches of the proposal for a budget of the Republic of Croatia. And when we discussed it, the draft budget. I, too, publicly commend the Government of the Republic of Croatia for having managed to prepare a budget within a record short period of time with all those traps that were hidden from taking over all those commitments that had reached, which was very much talked about here. After that, we were also aware of the present proposal for 428 amendments to this same budget where it was tried to prove that the Government's proposal was inconsistencies, that it did not match what we had promised voters and the like, however, it was definitely this Budget Proposal which was subsequently adopted that showed something quite the opposite. And today we have two proposals here to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act that directly violates the items of the budget. And that's what we all need to be aware of, and citizens need to be aware of, because it's quite clear to us that we don't have enough information classrooms in schools, that we don't have enough personal computers, and that we also have at this time when it's practically very difficult for one family to normally exist to get computers. Also, the question arises if you give someone, then who are you going to take? It's normally accepted here that we're going to re-occupied from the state budget. We will seize it in such a way that for all those projects and programmes adopted in the state budget, there will be no more money so that it will go back to the harm of all those protected by the state budget, which is definitely a poorer layer of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. You will also allow me, since my associates previously referred to the next item of the agenda that is closely connected to this point, and that is where it is explained when taken, where and to whom it is taken. So we're going to take it from the budget, and we're going to take it from the Alignment Fund. The Alignment Fund was adopted earlier, but recently, in 2001, it served to help the poor, the poor, the poor, the richer. And we all accepted it with joy because it was a fund that tried to balance the living conditions in our country that was very diverse on this issue. So in 2003, according to the proposaler's information, the Republic of Croatia's budget amounted to 3.25 million kuna, so that the Enabling Fund had considerable resources to serve to enable municipalities, cities and counties to fulfil their obligations in education, health care and social care. It is now proposed to bring these 3.25 million kunas down to 1.3 million kuna, which I think is quite insufficient to meet the needs of poorer municipalities, cities and counties, and thus get rich. Because if we do this by redistributing the revenues of the state budget, we will certainly get a systematic inequality in the standards of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what we can't stop here, and that's why I suggest that both income tax laws don't get adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8659	Thank you, Mr. Nenadic. Ms. Marija Lugaric reported on the replica. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8660	Dear Madam Vice President. A few things. Speaking of this subject which is very simple and very understandable by hiding behind large phrases, words of state interest, budget, amendments, consistency, equality, etc. He's trying to justify what's inconclusive, which is that you simply don't want to support a good measure. But speaking about the budget, speaking about the adoption of a recent budget, how consistent it is, how good it is, as developed, mentioning amendments, you forgot to say also that the funding for scholarships to students was reduced, that the reduced amounts for technological development, that the reduced resources of scientific spheres and sciences in the economy, and these were all my personal amendments. Then you can't speak with that excuse to reject this law. The second thing, you said that the budget proved consistent, to me it was very interesting, because it was brought very recently. And the propos of consistency we return to the time when the bombing is announced in the newspaper. Here comes the payoff tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8661	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8662	Here, let me finish. It's not a scholarship to the students, nor has anything been paid to anyone for three months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8663	Thank you, Mrs. Lugaric. You were the answer to the replica, were you? You can't do that. And for this, it's a little late, but go ahead if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8664	Thank you for your support and understanding. First of all, it looks like I can't tell a young colleague this time, because that's not how it is, I think the guy... was yesterday. A colleague of Lugaric's here suggests this high home concluded that what was proposed is good measures. I claim that these are not good measures, and I have proven that, because the Alignment Fund is a good measure, and that is a good measure with these good measures we are abolishing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8665	Thank you, Mr. Nenadic. On behalf of the promoter of the HNS Club PGS and Club LIBRE, Mr Lesar reported. Here you go, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8666	Thank you very much, dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. All this time, my colleagues have now presented one of the most important to him, and in fact the most difficult arguments against this law by calling this bill to violate the items of the budget. In doing so, he set an example of the Equality Fund, which is supposed to fall from 3 billion 250 to some billions and 300. That's just not true. In 2002, i.e. by the 2003 projection of the state stake, that rate between 24.6 and 25.6 together with the balancing fund was 3 billion 250, not just the fund. So that's the first thing that matters. Secondly, the proposals also include an increase in the original revenues of the locals. Therefore, the second compensation seems already to be. But allow a few more important notes. Yeah, but we'll talk about it later. This is, if I am not mistaken for the first bill of law of one of the opposition clubs, without the government coming with its counter-proposal with an opinion or attitude that the opposition is not accepted, because the Government's proposal better regulated the area. So, even when it comes to the SDP proposal of colleagues and this proposal of ours. and it is good that such a practice begins, only a pity that authorised representatives of the government are not present here, so that we can also clear up some things in the dialogue. I repeat, and apparently that argument does not want to be heard. That there was a significant tax reduction in the government's past term for contributions to pension and health insurance, reducing the gross labour price and that was a direct state investment in the economy. This proposal is a direct investment in the population. And therefore we need to repeat the effect of around 136 kuna a month at the level of the average salary. And not to burden the economy with any lip or kuna additional gross costs. It is a legitimate mechanism and a legitimate right of the state to intervene with such mechanisms when they are disrupted or significantly disrupted by gross net labour prices, reducing the hour one, hour the other, or harmonising such a policy with a desire or greater reinvestment in the economy or increasing the purchasing power of the population. and therefore again we suggest that you give the opportunity and miss this bill in the second reading, this is the first reading, in the meantime with further negotiations and talks with the Government and the Ministry to remove possible ambiguities. The third argument against it was that the government was preparing a total reform of the tax system. All right. That's good. However, how to stop the bill's proposals, justifying that there is a total reform waiting, just when something that could or should go in favor of the poorest is proposed. The fourth argument, that this proposal does not benefit the poor. I assure you that our proposal goes to the benefit of the poorest, with the lowest wages. But it is true that the benefits and effects would also be among those who have medium and high incomes. Last March, it's not my data, it's the Office for Statistics of the Republic of Croatia. When the average net salary was 3846 kuna. That's the area in this graph right over here, that's the prosthetic. These lefts are all who received an average lower salary than that average salary. 55.7% of them with their net salary were below the average salary and they will profit the most, all those we put at zero by 2000. Do you want more effect than the fact itself? So it goes in favor of the poorest. It will have a negative impact on local self-government units as their only government argument. All right. We've proposed a solution. However, please. Isn't there also going to be a fall in the budget of municipalities and cities, due to an increase in the untaxable part of the pension from 2550 to 3,000? Yeah, he'll be here. But that argument wasn't at the time, it's important now. That's when the government didn't make up for it, but now that we're giving it, it's been three times that we're breaking these relationships. Loss in the state budget of a billion 750. Yeah. We are aware that this proposal contains the danger of losing a billion dollars in the state budget. However, Minister Schuker appeared yesterday and four times, came for a pay phone and said, remember the comparison of VAT heights in April last year and in 8th. and said the VAT was collected in the eighth month by about 300 million kuna less than in April during the tourism season. It was an illustration of him, in order to strengthen the announcement of the tax administration's efforts to take down leaks to increase charges under existing tax regulations. And you've accepted that these efforts can compensate 3 billion for VAT. So if 3 billion can compensate for VAT, then it can make a billion and 750 for this easier than 3 billion compensations there. And we've accepted the fact that there's tax evasion, that it's the job of the state to make it as small as possible. That's why I repeat, this is the first reading. We have six months of time for a possible second reading. Support and release this law into another reading, because I want to convince you that these mechanisms and proposals satisfy three basic requirements and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Increase the purchasing power of the population, not a new burden on the economy and a minimal seizure or cutting of the revenue side of the state budget. These are the three objectives that are contained in this bill, and you believe that citizens, employees 935 thousand plus defence, plus the military, plus the crafts, plus the free professions will more appreciate and feel their net effect in profit and income than on the market through VAT where these are exclusively about the behaviour of one part of the market, and these are traders. And because of that, but also because of the fact that we did not submit this proposal after the adoption of the budget, after the second reading of the VAT Act rather than on 23 January before all these projects which are now as an argument why not. We used to go with that on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8667	Thank you very much, Mr. Lesar. Mr Nenadic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8668	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected colleague, Lesar, said the increase in incomes to the amendments and additions of the Law on income tax to all municipalities, cities and counties. That's incorrect. In those cities, municipalities and counties where the industry is not developed, where there are few employees, a lot of unemployed will drastically reduce revenue in the budget as there will not be enough funds in the Alignment Fund. Secondly, when Minister Schuker cited the alleged compensation, the incorrect assumption is as much as planned to plan for VAT cuts to be planned since 1.1.2005, and the application of these laws would go immediately.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8669	Thank you, Mr. Nenadic. Mr. Lesar, although I warn you that you have the right on behalf of the Proposer whenever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8670	Thank you very much. Since it really is a violation... of the Rules of Procedure. Namely, my colleague, you first made a misquote of my statement so that you would pollemize with her. I didn't say everything, I said units of local and regional self-government, but on the second point. Otherwise, that's true, under the second point, I'm going to prove to you that that's exactly what you thought I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8671	Thank you. I agree, take a phonogram, listen up, and we'll see. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. The next is the debate by Mrs Jelena Pavicević. Here you go, Mrs. Pavicic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8672	Thank you very much. Indeed, it is a devastating fact that only 18% of the public has access to the Internet. Recently, we had opportunities to see in one television feature how the use of the Internet is a necessary means of information that facilitates access to professional recent information and in the population of Croatian farmers, in a population with only 5% access to the Internet. The older population is not only those of agricultural activity and the fact is difficult to adapt to new technologies, but therefore younger generations accept not only with ease but also as a random need. This bill encourages the purchase of a personal computer and the release of a part of the income tax once every two years, which is the pace of restoring the equipment of the computer user. Computer donations to primary and secondary schools are also encouraged. So exactly according to the population that will provide Croatia in the near future a far greater percentage of Internet users than it is today. A far larger number of Internet users, but the number of users that will be approaching European standards should be highlighted. So let me look back on the government's negative opinion as well as a lot of speakers before me, which I really hold unacceptable because the argument that revenue cuts in the state budget could also be valid in proposing, for example. The VAT reduction law but of course it wasn't worth it. The second argument is that the introduction of this tax relief will increase the cost of processing annual tax returns is not worth nor an explanation nor an argument that other tax reliefs apply to the applicant of the tax application, and that foreign language learning is also proposed for dependent children as if only taxpayers and children live in rented dwellings and newly purchased homes, and not members of their families. Finally, as an introduction to the second part of the debate, let me also underline the argument that the young population to whom this proposal allegedly refers solely to the government's interpretation, so that this young population is already covered through regular education and included in IT and language education. Therefore, I will only be free to go through the document produced by this Government and entitled "The National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2004, which is in line with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union", a document which really obliges us all to act on it and to act on it. These government arguments will certainly disprove the arguments from a negative opinion on the bill's proposal as one of the measures and priorities in the division of science and research is also early learning and studying foreign languages according to this national programme. Since August 2003, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports has been acting as a professional advisory and working body of the competent minister in order to achieve a school information programme that does not make any sense if we do not allow users to own their own personal computer, as well as the desired pace of school information to be achieved only with private donations that we encourage and this bill. In the higher education segment, we re-declarately advocate the concept of life-long education, and here the government's negative opinion on the proposal to amend and supplement this law disprove itself. In addition, the government's relationship to internetisation is best seen in the return towards CARNET, Croatia's academic research network, which did not receive sufficient funding in this year's budget for its work, let alone to improve this work. The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2004 also includes a plan for the establishment of a National Council for the Information Society and for the creation of incentive measures for the application of new tariff models and for the purpose of increasing the number of Internet users in Croatia. So I'm asking a question, what's it gonna be like to know that access to the Internet needs to have a personal computer first? In fact, the government should finally move on to concrete acts from a declarative principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8673	Thank you, Mrs. Pavic. Next is Mrs. Danira Bilic's debate. Here you go, Mrs. Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8674	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So we all agree that the literacy of the 21st century implies... information literacy as well as knowledge of at least one foreign language and that in terms of such a type of descriptive Croatia must do much more. I also agree with the intensities of this Bill's proposal to increase information literacy and knowledge of foreign languages of taxpayers and their supported members. But I have to say something, which I don't understand here. It may be attributed to my inexperience, but I really don't understand why it is in the opening statements of the SDP Club and colleagues Stazic. Oh, I'm sorry, I was in a hurry not to be late for the hearing. Why, why do they keep repeating themselves again, e.g. Mr. Stazic, twice, this is not a political move to collect political points. Then that there is no ideology and that is exclusively for national interest. Well, that's no question about it. Or so, counterpart Lugaric, "we didn't suggest it for political reasons, and so that the villains or only the villains might say, they are against it only because it is SDP". I really don't understand why they're defending themselves right now. And even if, let's say, a step further, in the strategic documents from the government, from 2000 to 2003, there are a number of measures, there are a series of measures that would really lead to a systematic and complete explanation of the problem, the information of Croatia that has mostly never been implemented. Okay, and now it's realized that it should be applied, that's good, but it's proposed a selective one approach to the problem and that's why I also don't understand why I'm saying it then, I think colleague Lugaric is, it doesn't matter. Unlike others who only speak, we suggest. So, I agree with the positive intention of this Law, but I do not support the proposed way in which this problem is solved because I believe that the problem of information and language education must be seen fully and that we need to address it systematically and primarily through an educational system in which the citizens as taxpayers already participate in financing. In addition, the intensity of the relief in terms of increasing the personal deduction of taxpayers contained in the current Income Tax Act is to enable a wider circle of citizens to meet basic living needs such as housing and health, and investment in IT, language education is necessary, but it is too difficult to address the working active population. Because the younger population of citizens is already involved in this kind of education that they pay, as I have already said, through the distribution of funds from the state budget, through regular education. So, as far as the younger population is concerned, it is mainly through regular education already included in the language and information education programme. Systematic equipment of IT schools has been implemented by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports since 1997, and the past government launched a special programme of early learning of foreign language in August. This program is a great idea that I support, which I'm only sorry it didn't arrive before, and that's why it started to go on earlier. But I am glad that the new government continues with this programme and not only continues but increases it and improves it. I'll give you an example. In accordance with the instructions for the implementation of the special programme of early foreign language learning in the first class and foreign language education in the 4th grade of primary school in the school year 2003/2004. It is possible for all primary schools in the Republic of Croatia to introduce foreign language learning from this school year with funding from the state budget. For the implementation of this programme, 6000 658 teaching hours, or 350.3 full-time jobs, have been approved. And for the school year 2004/2005. the financing of early learning in the second class and election classes in the 5th grade as a continuation of learning in the 1st and 4th grade of this school year and will be ensured new, I received data as an exact, new 400 jobs based on full-time full-time for more quality and extensive implementation of this programme. As for information descriptors, I will single out that, among other things, all schools in the country will have at least one networked computer classroom by the end of the year. I mean, it should, it's positive and I support it, but we know that it should be at least 5 and 6 of those classrooms. The amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, which took place on several occasions since 1 January 2001, have resulted in one amendment that sets out the following. That income tax bonds carrying out the independent activities of the basic income tax may be further reduced on the basis of expenditure on education and professional training of employees and those taxpayers personally and at the level of the total expenditure incurred during the tax period. Thus, this change in the Income Tax Act directly stimulates a part of the working-active population to this form of improvement, and we know that in practice this most often refers in accordance with the time in which we live on information and language training. In addition, part of this SDP Law proposal relating to the right to increase personal deductions if the acquired information equipment is offered to the primary or secondary school, with the presentation of the authentic documents, was partly incorporated into one already, in one already adopted supplement of the Income Act, which reads that the personal deduction is increased both for the donations of the day in nature and in the money provided to the jury account, and in the cultural, educational, scientific, health, humanitarian, sports and religious purposes of associations and other persons who carry out those activities in accordance with specific regulations up to 2% of the income for which an annual tax application was submitted in the previous year and the definitive income tax established. Therefore, given that the majority of the younger population are already affected by the systematic programme in the enlargement process, that part of the working population enjoys certain tax reliefs from the Income Tax Act, on this basis, and as stated in the Government's opinion, the proposer of this Act did not have in mind that these new tax exemptions would significantly increase the cost of processing annual tax returns, which would require the introduction of additional records to monitor the purchase of information equipment by each taxpayer. Then, each new introduction of new benefits increases the number of exceptions leading to a breach of the tax system as well as some of its instruments in this case income tax. And finally, what is most important is that this proposal would not solve the problem of informational and language descriptor completely and systematically. I believe that this is the formula of the SDP Club's bill where the problem is approached selectively, it should not be accepted. As regards the second Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax proposed by the CNS, PGS and LIBRE, I am of the opinion that it should not be accepted for this year and because of the information proposed by the Ministry of Finance which says this will result in the effect of budgetary loss. Based on this, it will have less than 1.28 billion to damage the central state budget and 1.6 billion to the damages of the local administration and self-government unit. And because the budget has been netted and we know that under what circumstances. So, I'm thinking that for this year you shouldn't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8675	Thank you, Mrs. Bilic. Mrs. Pavicic called about the replica. Here you go, Mrs. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8676	Thank you very much. In fact, I would just like to say that the young population reportedly covered both of these projects in primary and secondary education really has the right to something else. Now, it is very popular to have a news project, the truth God imported, that parliamentary representatives try to live with a hundred euros for a week. So then I would ask Mrs Bilic, would she, in the sense of this project, allow, say, that her children have no opportunity to get some university education, but that they really only retain that education mandatory that they have under the regular school program do they have a basic, do they have high school? Obviously, we think they actually care about society, not about ourselves. And one more thing. Indeed, this project cannot be called selective problem solving. and for a very unique reason. Because the very concept of this problem-solving is in the national programme for Croatia's accession to the European Union in 2004, which is the national programme of this government. Therefore, if the programme and concept are from the government itself, our proposal is only a measure and I really don't see why the HDZ would not support it in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8677	Thank you, Mrs. Pavic. The answer to Mrs. Bilic's line. Here you go, Mrs. Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8678	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'd just say one thing, that here all the time in the debate, on the one hand and on the other, it's all wrong. I did not say that I am against the intention and against informing and language education of the citizens of Croatia, but the way in which it is trying to get rid of it. And I think he's selective, because he's individual. And the other thing, my baby would still be easier, but it wouldn't have been free. So, if I wasn't there and still wouldn't have free of charge of that extra, it means education or information or language. Thank you very much. And I mean, I'd just add, I think this problem really needs to be solved, but systematically the whole package of measures that I've already said, which are already contained in the previous documents, and I hope that this government will not only declare it, but will implement those measures that it takes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8679	I thank Mrs. Bilic. Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic reported on the replica. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8680	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So in the inability of a valid argument, or one that would... one logic of common sense, and equally justice, here goes with blurring things. Selectively, in a selective approach, the government will fully resolve it. How can the government solve everything? To buy each and every one of them a computer. Well, this is a selective approach. To be bought by whoever wants it, but to make it easier. That's the point. And you keep talking, the government is carrying out systematic information. So what does that have to do with anything? This is about a personal computer and a personal tax deduction that they'll have at home. On the other hand, the government has stopped informing all systems, starting with justice, administration, etc. And something else, colleague Bilic. We're not defending ourselves at all. Thank you for the position of the victim you intended for the SDP. The SDPs are attacking the government and will continue to do so responsibly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8681	Thank you. It's business impossible. We're moving on with the debate. Next up, you can't have a business response to a replica. Next up for debate, Mr. Marko Shirac came forward. Here you go, Mr. Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8682	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me refer first to the law proposed by the SDP Representatives Club. The applicant proposes to amend Article 29 on income tax, which increases the personal deduction for the purchase of a personal computer, computer components and programmes up to the amount of 12,000 kuna per year. The increase in personal deduction is also proposed for the cost of paying foreign language courses and information education. All this is proposed with the aim of promoting greater information literacy and better knowledge of foreign languages. I must say that at first glance, when a man is considering this bill, he would not actually find a reason to be in addition to this proposal, to be against this proposal, the more the Government of the Republic of Croatia, through a series of measures, encourages and education in education in education, encourages other measures through and through this law which has already been passed, that entrepreneurs adequately educate their employees, that they have the right to lower taxes for purchased equipment, etc. However, what is it that is missing from this proposal? A solid analysis in which we propose the adoption, namely the SDP Representatives' Club, proposes the adoption of this law. I've been trying to run some tests. We all know that the more serious information equipment, the more modern we've all called today, is that we don't have to buy an old cram without 6 thousand kuna. Yes, a language course for a language course also requires serious money. For education to work with that equipment, you also need serious money. Which of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia at this moment in the situation in which we live can allow ourselves to do so? Well, I assure you, it's only one part of the working-intense population. Farmers, fishermen, unemployed, those who receive a small salary, they can neither buy equipment nor pay for schooling to work with that equipment, especially to pay for their foreign language. Secondly, the state budget was passed. The budget and unit of local self-government were brought in. Well, there's no one who can say that he won't, so that the introduction of these reliefs doesn't lead to a difficult, not a difficult, but complex situation to achieve that state budget. But I must point out that this would also undermine the question of developing and financing activities in units of local self-government and cities that have the right to part of the tax also have the right to part of the cut. Therefore, only one part of the population will benefit from the adoption of this law. And that law, here we bring it to the session that follows the session when we've brought the state budget. The state budget is also the law. And it is not correct from either position nor from the opposition, although I do not deny it the right of any representative, not one club to propose a law, which destroys the law we passed a month ago. Here's me with that belief I could explain even more extensively with some of the elements of this argument and the law proposed by the CNS. But with these points of view, I am not and can't support the adoption of any law proposed by the SDP Club or the law proposed by the HNS Club with the other clubs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8683	Thank you, Mr. Shirac. To answer, Mrs. Paviciæ applied for the replica. Here you go, Mrs. Pavic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8684	Thank you. In fact, I'd only like to replicate the part that applied to this farmer population. I just said in my presentation that it was one of those populations that, especially in time, began to see the benefits of the Internet. And more and more emissions in this segment of agriculture are talking about the need for the internetisation of agriculture. That is, every farmer can learn all the recent information via his computer in the morning and thus be absolutely competitive not only on the Croatian market.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8685	Thank you, Mrs. Pavic. Next came the replica Mr. Nenad Stazic. Here you go, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8686	Representative Širac wonders who will benefit from this law when the largest majority is so poor that he can't even buy a computer, that he can't access the Internet and that he can't learn a foreign language. Because of them. Because of them, MP Shirac, and we propose this law. Because we know they're poor enough to buy a computer, because we know they're poor enough to pay for themselves or their child's foreign language course. And that's why we want this computer to be cheaper for them and that foreign language course for them and their children is cheaper. That's why we're proposing. Not because of those who have enough money for computers for cars, for ships, for three foreign languages, for schooling their children abroad, not because of them, because of those you claim to be such a number that this law is pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8687	I thank Mr. Stazic. Mr. Shirac came in for a reply. Here you go, Mr. Shirac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8688	Dear fellow Trainer, I don't think we have to argue much about it that you'll agree with me this time. Only once in full tax reform prepared by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which you and I will have the right to put your opinion on. We can install such instruments to solve the question of people who are not able today and do not have the means to obtain neither equipment nor pay for schooling, nor to learn foreign languages.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8689	Thank you. For the replica is next in line, Mr. Lesar. Here you go, Mr. Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8690	Thank you very much. I am extremely reluctant to judge in these replicas, however, for a little while I was talking about it, so my colleague Širac is in a sentence that it is not correct from the opposition of this law I propose after the budget is adopted and I must react to it and repeat it. A colleague of Širac, the HNS and PGS and LIBRE Club, submitted the draft law to the procedure on 23 January this year. The president of the parliament put the two laws on the agenda for the previous session of the parliament, but they were not discussed solely because the government did not deliver its testimony in time. What we are discussing today is a mistake in the process and the government has, with its indemnity, blocked the possibility of discussing and adopting these laws in parallel or even before the adoption of the state budget. Please keep that in mind and don't tell us we're incorrect because we put it in the process in time. Irregularity was but not ours this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8691	Thank you, thank you, colleague Lesar. Mrs. Dragica Zdrebec came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go, Mrs. Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8692	It is incorrect when counterpart Širac says that the Income Tax Change Act proposed by the SDP Club would tear down the 2004 budget. This is about the reliefs used in the final accounting of income tax and it can only have an impact on the budget of 2005 because they will be used in the final accounting, i.e. the application of the tax in which they will be taught in February 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8693	I thank Mrs. Zgreb. Mr Goran Jandrokovic came forward to discuss this subject, please welcome Mrs Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8694	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. I support the view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the Croatian Parliament does not accept the amendments and amendments to the Law on Income Tax proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the PGS and the Club of Representatives of the LIBRA and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. As regards the proposal of the clubs of HNS, PGS and LIBRE, the reasons for this position are as follows. First. Since the draft law has called itself an alternative proposal in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I would like to stress that I consider the concept of the reform of the tax system proposed by the Government a better, better quality and improved solution than this proposal. Second. The income tax law has been amended and amended twice in the last year. These changes and up-to-date levels of the base deduction increased from 1250 to 1500 kuna per month. Parts of the personal deduction intended to cover the expenses incurred by the taxpayer for the health and housing needs of up to 24 thousand kuna are also prescribed. There are several more prescribed reliefs and releases and I do not make it realistic that at this stage it can go to a new increase in basic personal deduction. Third. It is estimated that an increase in the basic personal deduction to a level of 2000 kuna would result in a loss of tax revenue of 2.4 billion kuna. In doing so, less than $1.28 billion would go to harm the central state budget and 1.6 billion kuna would be damaged by the income of local and regional regional self-government units. However, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional, regional self-government promoters are trying to transfer all the burden of loss of 2.4 billion to the central state budget. However, they do not cite other real income sources to compensate for this tax deficit. As for the SDP Club's proposal, I would like to say that I support the concern of strengthening information literacy and better knowledge of foreign languages. The more I keep it one of the national priorities and the commitment of each Croatian government because there is no development without it and there are no new jobs, economic growth and neither the approximation of the European Union. But certainly there are better models of their incentives than the proposed partial intervention in the tax system. And final. The parties, the promoters, of these draft laws were prominently participated in the past government, and had enough time to adopt and implement the measures defined in the proposal for these laws. But they didn't do it. I therefore keep politically correct allowing the current government to adopt its model of tax reform which, I am convinced in the near future, will show positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8695	Thank you, dear colleague. Replica colleague Lugarić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8696	Dear Mr Vice-President, perhaps a better issue that somehow stands throughout today and yesterday's debate by rejecting proposals and SDP and other opposition parties, the HDZ advocates are mostly saying it's all good but we will not support it and there are better models. So give me a suggestion once and for all of these better models and tell me what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8697	The other tile. Not yellow. That's how you respond to your colleague Jadrokovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8698	Just for a little while, I can't correct the incorrect assumption. I didn't say everything was fine. I said that the intentions are good, but I think the model proposed is not good and adequate and that the government proposes a better model
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8699	Thank you very much. Don't throw it out of the bench. Thank you very much. It is your turn to present your presentation to a respected colleague, Plesko, and elect a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8700	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Proposals of the Law amending and supplementing the income tax law mean no. 44 and 12, according to the proposals of SDP representatives of the SDP of HNS PGS and LIBRE, in my opinion, are currently not acceptable and I personally believe that this House of Representatives should not support these proposals either. My reasons for trying to explain this thinking are next. The first increase in personal deductions from 1500 to 2000 kn will primarily reduce the incomes of local self-government units and create problems in the functioning of municipal and city administrations. In their tax revenues, and I believe that there is, accordingly, no preliminary explanation of the applicant who claims that this legislation does not require additional financial resources to be provided for this regulation. For who, I ask the question, will compensate for the minuses and the lack of budgetary resources in the budgets of the units of local self-government unless the Government does so to the burden of the state budget. This is a re-transmission of the problem to another's yard as the former government has done by building highways and fuel prices by borrowing or sharing money from a state budget that must be covered in this year 2004. With the introduction of new benefits of tax deductions of type 12 thousand kuna per year for the purchase of computers and computer equipment and computer programs, it is favourable to the richer layer of the population because it will be possible to obtain modern modern equipment and programmes of 12c thousand kunas every two years. While the poorer part of the population that can't or can't do it in some credit way doesn't have the means for a set of equipment from three to five thousand kunas. So, accordingly, let your colleagues calculate to whom such a proposal suits. And if this is the proposal, it will bear fruit and will result in greater informational literacy. I further believe that the promotion of information literacy and knowledge of foreign languages should be addressed in the education system by increasing IT and foreign language conferences in primary education, the procurement of kindergarten education equipment through primary and secondary education. I can say that, for example, every year in the last four years, we've been getting 10,000 PCI pieces and we've arranged it in schools, it's an annual commitment of about 40 million kuna. I think today you've already had about 40,000 new PCs with which children at school and kindergartens can also be used according to the most modern programs. And according to the criteria that are spread in the information room. And then I would like to emphasise one more thing, which is that under such a state-level constitutionale, a unique and tailored state programme can be implemented which can also be controlled unlike the differences that arise in private education centres, which we know is how informational descriptor is done by private institutions in different schools outside of the control system. Perhaps in the end, just to conclude these proposals have no proven justification and it opens with the possibility of uneven development and in the manner shown by Mrs Anticevic here in this House yesterday, I could call them ridiculous. Well, for those reasons, I can't support the adoption of these legal regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8701	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. My colleagues and colleagues, since we have exhausted the list of individual applicants, do they want representatives of the proposal to. A colleague of Lesar's on behalf of PGS HNS and Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, listening to all the arguments and including the facts of the content of these arguments which were presented against this proposal to increase the non-taxable part of the salary. It comes down to the fact that it is a fundamental problem that the state budget and budgets of local and regional self-government are left without part of the money. That's what we're aware of. And this item of the agenda that is now next will be the possibility of accurate calculations and conflicts of data who is and who is right. But if this is the biggest problem and because of the business procedure, please, in order to prepare and in the meantime remove the doubt, and we can prepare me as proposing an alternative proposal on the date of the start of this application of this Law, it is necessary that he prepares himself for a second reading after the first reading. If you do not support it even in the first reading, we cannot resolve this very thing in the second reading. And for that reason again I appeal this is the first reading in order to resolve all disagreements and possible dilemmas, support it in the first reading. And in the second reading of the new or updated proposal and through amendments and it is a matter of time before it could be applied it can be resolved in agreement with the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8703	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a esteemed colleague of Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8704	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8705	On behalf of the second promoter of the SDP club, esteemed colleague Nenad Stazic, please elect a colleague, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8706	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the promoter of the SDP Club, I thank all those who participated in this individual debate. Those who disputed this bill of ours have not really held any new arguments, but have reiterated those already presented in the government's opinion. There were, however, MPs such as Mr Jandrokovic who in principle supported this intensities but said the government was preparing a systematic solution. In that sense, all the objections that say this is unacceptable because this is a selective approach. And that he still needs an essential solution. The argument was successfully killed by Mrs Anticevic Marinovic. Of course it's a selective opinion. And that's what we wanted. Well, it is a measure of tax relief that promotes one kind of behavior, one kind of t-smacking. There's a system solution that can't be. A systematic solution would be for the government to buy each taxpayer a computer. To anyone who wants to learn a foreign language course pays a course. This would be more systematically resolved which could systematically replace this bill. This is as selective as selective and all other reliefs. And when... someone used a relief to buy an apartment then he obviously decided to solve his living issue, not spend money, say, on buying clothes. So when someone decides on this proposal to learn a foreign language, then he decides to spend money on learning a foreign language and make it easier, not buy back expensive clothes or some luxury product for which he has no relief. Therefore, that argument falls away as unserious. Another argument, which is the government's argument, which says: "other tax reliefs apply only to the applicant, and foreign language learning is also proposed for dependent children". Maestral, with two fingers. The tweezer was discovered by Pavičić-Vukicevic. So please be nice. Well, when you get other benefits back at your apartment shopping, it's like members, like abstention kids don't live in that apartment. Or what? What is now to be feared by those who make that relief not based on this government's reasoning that they will ask these children to leave that apartment because the right to relief has only the applicant. The argument doesn't make it funny. It's absurd. There is no, therefore, serious argument that this bill is rejected. I repeat, it is intended to enable citizens to invest more favourably in the purchase of information equipment and more favourable learning of foreign language. There are no arguments to refuse such a proposal. There's only political will to turn him down. That political will, as far as I can see, is the only evidence from this debate by clubs and individual representatives from the HDZ Club. And what does that political will say? It says that if you are citizens of the Republic of Croatia, you will not buy information equipment more favourably. No, while HDZ is in power, no. You won't learn foreign languages more favorably. No, while HDZ is in power, no. Those of you, dear citizens, who can single out two average salaries to buy a computer, let them buy it. Those who can't have computers. You won't buy it much better. Those of you who have enough money to pay your child a foreign language course to make that child more educated or competitive tomorrow on the labour market, pay. Those who can't, huh, can't, what we can do to you. We won't make it any easier for you anyway. That comes from the debate, that's the political will that the HDZ is showing here. So rich kids will have their own computer, learn two, three languages, go to school outside. Those poor people will be left without it. It is clear from yesterday's debate on two concepts of VAT and from today's debate on income tax that HDZ does not want to make life easier for those with smaller incomes. They, therefore, will buy expensive cars or yachts of 100,000 euros will save 2,000 euros, if HDZ's VAT law passes, and will pass. It will save 15 thousand kunas, but one who buys children's food, shoes for children or information equipment or who pays for learning a foreign language for himself and for his child will get nothing. The slogan "Let's start Croatia" is coming true. Croatia is running in expensive cars and luxury yachts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8707	Thank you. Corrections to an incorrect quote. First fellow Markovanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8708	Your Honor, Mr. President. Here, fellow Stazic, I would just like to correct the assumption that it is an incorrect claim that the HDZ message is that it will not get the computers. I don't think I should use any other word than incorrect. All I care about is why last time that "no" was in the last election. Probably the same reason you didn't do anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8709	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Fuček.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8710	I am correcting Mr. Stazic's incorrect quote regarding the systematic solution he is contesting. The system solution is to approach information as a basis for the development of Croatia for which the state needs to invest much, much more. In this is our systematic approach, not selective in the purchase of computers because we all know that tax, that tax on income is a natural person. And in that sense, I'm correcting your guilty allegations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8711	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8712	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I first apologize that a man must constantly correct the allegations, especially when he comes out for a pay phone fellow Stazic. However, the way he says it and the way he puts it in HDZ's mouth, i.e. the government's position is that neither the government has said nor has HDZ told the man that he really needs to explain. So neither HDZ nor the Croatian government has said they will not describe, help, promote foreign language learning and, in any case, it is a completely incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8713	Thank you very much, colleague Bagaric. Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8714	According to the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to correct an incorrect quote, but I have not seen that it can be corrected and the manner in which a statement has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8715	It's not the correct way here, it's the correct quote. Is the quote incorrect, judge. A colleague of Pleško, a correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8716	counterpart Stazic said HDZ is against cheaper computers and that their proposal brings cheaper computers. This is not true because, through VAT, the proposal of this government, Mr. Ivo Sanader will be cheaper computers for every citizen, and through their proposal, it will be cheaper only for those citizens who have higher pay power while for poorer citizens because of the other benefits simply won't notice it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8717	This is already a bit weirder account. My colleagues and colleagues... I'm sorry, buddy, but it's weird to me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, I conclude the debate on the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by colleagues from the CNS, PGS and LIBRE and colleagues from the Club of Representatives of the SDP. If you agree, colleagues and colleagues, if no one is objecting, we would continue to work without a break today with the goal of making it easier for those who have to go on a trip and in a more appropriate time to take a trip, regardless of what will be more difficult to discuss without a break. Another notice I would like to say, we will still be doing one point, that is the next point, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, and after that we will end today's session and session for this week. Next week, session 31.3 continues on Wednesday at 9:30. We will start with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Drugs and Government of the Republic of Croatia and proposing SDP representatives in a united debate. And then on the agenda, like the rest of the agenda, until we get there on Wednesday. Here, after this information let us move to the point...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8718	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 44. The bill promoter is the SDP Representatives' Club. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act proposed by the SDP Representatives' Club for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies is not adopted. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes in favour, 36 against and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8858	Here, after this information let us move to the point... - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government – Proposing the Law is the Club of Representatives of the HNS PGS and LIBRE, first reading of P.Z. No. 11. You received the proposal by mail. This proposal for the Law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received their reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the draft law? Yeah. The word is made by Mrs Vesna Pusic, the vice president of the house and the representative of the legislator. Here you go, Mrs. Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will present some of the arguments for the adoption of this amendment law and amendments to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, proposed by the HNS Club and the PGS and the Club of Libre. In principle, I would like to express my disdain for today's debate in Parliament without the presence of the government. I do not think that this has anything to do with any club of MPs, that it is necessary to respect the whole of Parliament and all clubs of MPs sitting here, and I think that, as the Government must give its opinion on any bill, it is also necessary to respect its obligation to be present in Parliament when the drafts of the law are being discussed, no matter what they think, precisely in order to say what they think, and no matter what authorised legislator these proposals come from. The second principled remark proved that it was illogical and, of course, not our responsibility, it would like to apologize to everyone that it was illogical and only under the title of the merger of the discussion on amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act proposed by the HNS Club, the PGS and the Libre Club on the one hand and the Tax Act, amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, which was proposed by the SDP Club, because in this case it was added to the same law, but to a completely different type of proposal. And it would be logical and perhaps some of the ambiguities and delusions in the discussions that have arisen precisely from that fact, for that reason, because it would be logical to discuss together the proposal to amend and supplement the Income Tax Act proposed by HNS PGS and Libra and this law, so this amendment law and the additions of the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, because they logically make up a common whole, I will try to underline it every time it is clearly shown. One of the most interesting at least in my assessment is one of the most interesting discussions in Parliament's past session, it seemed to me that it was also the most parliamentary at least as I imagine parliamentary debates, was the debate on our proposal for a law on the direct selection of mayors, mayors and mayors. It seemed to me that it was one of the most interesting and parliamentary discussions, because it was really debated about the content of the proposal, not about who made the proposal. So, not about whose proposal it is, but about the measure of things, about the content of the proposal, and there are particularly interesting quality contributions whether those people from all parties who had their own direct experience in operating at local level, so people who could from their own experience, and from all parties recognized those elements that in their work as people at local level, so as mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors or members of the Council felt and exactly their support, therefore by supporting people again not all of the parties, but some of all the parties that law passed in the first reading, received support from representatives from the positional and opposition benches in the previous meeting of the Assembly, precisely the basis of the debate and I mean the experience and knowledge of the problems of those people from all parties who had experience at the local level. Unfortunately, he didn't come to the agenda for second reading. And now we had to give it again and put it in the procedure to pass both first and second reading. I mention this because I think this law or the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government combined with the Law that we have just finished discussing would refer to these changes to the untaxable part of the salary or to the non-taxable part of income. I think it would be extremely useful for the whole country if we could talk about this bill in a similar way as we discussed the proposal for a law on the direct selection of mayors and mayors. So everyone sitting here, I ask you to think about the content of the law, about what can be achieved, what it brings, and not just whether the proposal comes from opposition or position, it is in parliamentary democracy logically that it is important and logical that people are so oriented. But there are some topics, and it seems to me that this one of these topics has some topics that may represent some of the lowest common denominator, some consensus, without disrupting this political match and political competition that is natural, good, healthy, useful, whatever you want in parliamentary multilateral democracy. So, please watch that law from that point of view which he, his content, which he does in fact. This proposal for a law on financing, thus amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is closely linked to the Law on Proposed Amendments to the Income Tax Act. This proposal solves the problem which many of you have mentioned, which is that the non-taxable part of the salary is increasing from 1500 to 2000 kuna, which reduces the income of local and regional self-government, and it is precisely the tax on income to weigh, the main, relatively, not in absolute terms, when and in absolute terms, but most often the relatively largest source of income of the unit of local and regional self-government. This law addresses this problem that many of you have raised in the debate in the past law or the bill, because this proposal not only compensates for what is lost at the level, at local and regional level in funding, which is lost by increasing the untaxable part of the wages that people receive, but also gives to local and regional self-government units. So they get this proposal, you'll see it from the reasoning of the law, the more accurate calculation, they get not the same as they get now that the untaxable part of the salary is 1,500 kuna, but they get more than they get now. How do they get more? They gain more because of those elements or those factors that participate in the distribution of income, therefore, in obtaining income from income tax and excludes the central state. And the total income tax is allocated between the fund, let's say within the balancing fund, of course, the state participates but outside of the balancing fund, not the balancing fund and municipalities of the county and cities. It is those who participate in the distribution of that income. So the difference is next. So far, the Fund for Balances, the central state, municipalities, counties and cities have participated. This list excludes the central state from this proposal and participates in a fund for balancing, municipalities, cities and counties and this way of the municipality, the county and cities receive not only the same amount that they receive now, but also the larger, therefore, local and regional self-government obtain more income from this income tax. The essence of the simple substance or essence of this proposal is that income from income tax is returned to where it is taken. To return to municipalities, cities and counties. And from that you take about 25% of the total income that goes to the Alignment Fund. In other words, even simpler than the central state according to local and regional self-government. It is, of course, quite simply, even so simple that without having heard this whole argument, without participating in our debate in which there is an opportunity to bring forth a series of elements, we see the proposals of the law, therefore, in written proposals of the law that municipalities and cities immediately recognized it. Thus, he has already sent his full support to the Associations, Cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia, which says he fully supports the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government and the Proposal for Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Income. Because of course they live through it every day. They saw and recognized that it was in the interest of local self-government units, therefore, in the interest of the municipalities and cities, which is what they represent and advocate. It's a policy of clean bills to the citizens of tax payers, according to the principle where you took the money, from those of which you took the money, there and back you return it to improve the standard of people living in these municipalities and cities. Combined through the Solidarity Alignment Fund, expressed not by arbitrant benevolent decisions but by a revised manner through the Alignment Fund and by any other further State intervention in redistribution. But that's a lot more than that, it's a lot more than this pure account policy and clear criteria of investing in solidarity. It is I agree not enough, far from being finished, far from being all that is to be done but is one important and important step for two of Croatia's development processes and the beginning of the capture with a serious threat to Croatia's development. These two processes as of course you're all supposed to be aware of the decentralisation of the state on the one hand and on the other hand something that perhaps none of us noticed in time, certainly not enough in time to, in order to, in order to stop it quickly enough. And this is the process, an urgent process, the reduction of huge differences in the development and wealth of certain regions within Croatia, or the launch of a model of development of uniform opportunities for all people in this country. So let me say something about both of these processes. The first process is decentralisation, important, often stressed, underlining by people from many parties. Why is the decentralisation process important? The main function of decentralisation is the responsibility of the state to citizens, hence increasing the level of responsibility of the state to citizens at the level at which they most often come in contact with the state and this is local and emphasis and understanding for the politics of everyday life. Responsibility because citizens have much greater and better insight into the functioning of the state or formal institutions, regulation of life in the community at local self-government level and most often come into contact with the country at this very level. A policy of everyday life at local and regional level. It is obvious and we all know from our own experiences there are also much deeper and more comprehensive insights, deeper and more comprehensive knowledge of problems, interests, needs and potentials, including human potentials to solve and to meet the interests and needs of people living at that level. Everyone certainly knows about their community, about their city, probably much more detail than anyone there needs at higher national levels. And this day-to-day policy must, to a large extent, become a criterion for the successful functioning of the country. The state that is at the central highest level functions perfectly or at least seems to be functioning great, and life makes life harder and worse at the level of everyday life for most of its citizens, because the poorly functioning state regardless of all other attributes and qualities that can be attributed to it. The European Charter of Local, Regional Self-Government speaks of the local and regional self-government as the fourth leg of the government in that traditional division in three, therefore, judicial, legislative and executive. Local self-government is the fourth leg of the government, but on that very leg in modern states, most citizens are standing, and most citizens are in that dimension being assured of what the state is. The same Charter on Local and Regional Self-Government stresses as an important element, as obviously an important element, which makes up Croatian legislation, is at least a declarative principle of subsidiarity. It doesn't accentuate him by accident. The principle of subsidiarity to just say briefly, means simplified everything that can be solved locally, needs to be resolved locally. On a higher level in the state structure, only what is impossible to resolve at a lower level in the state structure should be delegated. This is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government by returning income from income tax to the level of local units, also enables practical implementation of the principle of subsidiarity. It also enables the realization of something that we have written in our Constitution, something that is written in our Constitution. And this is that in order to decentralise the functions of the state, any decentralised function of the state must also be monitored by an appropriate source of funding. Since we could go further into decentralisation at all, it is a constitutional provision, in order to go at all into decentralisation of the functions of the state which is obviously of interest to us, not only of interest but also of a plan within all those criteria, especially in this case of political and state-run administrations or those concerning public administrations in our approach, and if it is all right to join the European Union so that we can meet these criteria, we must provide funding for it, this is a way to achieve this. The second element is the development of uniform opportunities for all citizens. In Croatia as we have already become, I think everyone is aware there is a huge difference in regional development, to be precise, there is a difference and 1 to 19, so, according to the data published and in the press, there is a gross social product that amounts to 19 thousand dollars per capita to counties that have $1,000 per capita. It's not just about the economy, it's about the total offer. This outlines the overall standard of life, because it means that from the education of infrastructure, the quality of roads, the quality of kindergartens and at all the availability of kindergartens, cultural offers, difference 1:19, there are people who live 19 times worse. Or 19 times better, of course. Within a country of 4.5 million inhabitants, there are people who live 19 times worse than their fellow citizens 100 miles away. Not only in economic opportunities, but in this policy of everyday life, whether their kindergarten is attended by children, what kind of school they attend, what kind of cultural offer they have in their own place, and that's just at the county level. And we all know that within each county there is a huge difference between individual micro-region. That some of these poorer counties are both and then within these counties there are still municipalities and cities that are below the average of the county, therefore, even worse, living and even worse tenants have these public offerings and public services than the average of their own county. So the biggest source of unit income of local and regional self-government is this income tax. I'm going to say exactly, as far as the county is concerned, from 23.5% of total income to over 50% of total income. The city of Zagreb is a special category, since it was also presented in those materials that you received in connection with the state audit of the common income and profit tax, therefore, income from the total income tax and profits, so the city of Zagreb is at a level of up to 63%. But for the rest of the county, it's between 23.5% and over 51%. On average, somewhere around 40% of the total revenues of the county and cities come from this income tax. Returns, what is proposed by this law, so the return of total revenues would mean the opening of investment opportunities in local development projects, fixed, predictable, longer-term revenues, guaranteed revenues from local and regional self-government units, open up the possibility of more courageous entry into development projects at local level. Ensure this security of income, ensure that units of local and regional self-government can be increased, therefore, through greater initiative and flexibility to enter projects. The extension of the project cycle to multi-annual projects, therefore not necessarily limited to mandates, local authorities or budget years, and most projects, of course, take longer than the limits of political mandates. In other words, such assurance of the financing of local self-government units as proposed by this HNS law, PGS and LIBRE shall ensure the dynamicisation of autoctonic development, therefore, of development at local and regional level, which provides a basis for faster local development and at least somewhat through the possibility of entering development projects for equating the chances of people living in different counties, municipalities and cities, thus at different levels of development. Of course, as I said at the beginning it's one, it's not an absolutely sufficient step, but it's a necessary step. This will not solve the problem completely. But without that step, he won't get rid of it at all. What does that mean? Citizens aren't equal. They don't stand a chance, not just economically, but in all these other offers that I've been telling you about. But then the foundation of the modern state, even the idea of a modern state, is bitten so that the modern state can function, must ensure political equality for its citizens. This, this possibility of accessing or equating opportunities in the ability to access services, the services that the state must provide is one of the essential elements of that type of equality which is the assumption of even functioning of the state. Without this step, we will not be able to take the following steps that will reduce these odds or that inequality of 1:19 to something that is certainly not just but better, for example, that Slovenes 1:6 is not quite right but is certainly better than 1:19. By returning income from the central state to the local and regional self-government of the central state budget as many of you have already said, and as stated in the government's opinion, the central state budget is losing by our calculation of billions and 750 kuna, according to the government's calculation, we could now discuss losing 2 billion and 400 kuna. So let's not go into that controversy now, let's take that government calculation of 2 millin 400 kuna. It's still less important than it loses by reducing VAT by 2 points. By reducing VAT by two points, it loses the state budget not two billion and 400, but three billion or something else. So, with this government proposal of 3 billion VAT cuts and this proposal still loses the state budget 25% more. If the government's proposal is accepted. But it's not a total argument, the difference is just that the reduction of VAT on the state budget loses a minimum of 25% more. The important difference is that by reducing VAT by 2 points the most used on the one hand by traders but on the other hand by those who buy the most. So the more I buy, the more I'll benefit from the reduction in VAT the less I buy, the less I'll benefit from it. Because reduction in VAT can be used on the assumption that all price amounts are too high, I can use only if the more I buy. If I can't buy, then I don't have any use for VAT cuts. This return goes directly to the local level to increase the country's standards and services at the level at which these funds have gathered. It increases the credit capacity of local and regional self-government through this, of course, and development potentials. It's an investment in people in the environments where they live and it's not enough. but it is necessary and necessary as a step towards reducing the differences that have reached a worrying scale. It is a necessary step that the fact that you were born in the plates in Brinje or the Iron does not lead you to a situation that 19 times less chance than by being born in Zagreb. It's not only unfair it's unsustainable and it's bad for this country. And this step is not enough, but it is necessary to begin to correct it. I'm asking on behalf of the HNSA PGS and LIBRE Club to think about it and talk about the scale of things and see what it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8860	Thank you, dear colleague Pusic. Do the committee's rapporteur want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first in line are representatives' clubs. On behalf of the HDza Club, dear colleague Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8861	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow advocates. Here's a remote time topic is a very interesting local self-government has always been a very interesting topic. Especially if it's about some money because if we think of those other 93 years away when it was set when it was the first major denitralisation when it hit a large number of municipalities over 400 new municipalities. Clearly along 140 cities, so a lot of units or better said municipalities and cities,...the county. Which are and how they're headed for accelerated communal development. So it was really one bloom clear to the possibility that one part of the area was covered by war one part occupied but where it was not found many ways to develop infrastructure. Why does infrastructure matter? And today, why today, we need and how much money in local self-government units to build infrastructure, especially for investment. Because if there's no investor, we won't have a tax hike, and neither will employment. I would like to point out here and say that at that time we also had the express support of Croatian waters, HEP, Croatian roads and later as the Croatian highways also helped us in many ways that we couldn't do alone. Sources of local self-government contributions for all those who may be less concerned are indeed income tax as the biggest income tax on profits. Then we have those who are fortunate to have a much larger communal contribution. And the communal fee is a deal where more companies are stationed. In addition, a few small small taxes at that time do not mention any better because they did not really fill the budget. Decentralisation each is actually an increase in obligations and clearly in this need and an increased funding because if we go to the denitralisation of education we have seen this already and in the first instance there will probably be another third, very small number of cities and municipalities he accepted in relation to the number of existing ones he accepted that decentralisation because they realized that they did not have enough money to follow all the needs of education. The schools we've heard a lot about today, which is what it's supposed to be invested in because those who have computers might have a hall and vice versa. So in that standard and how we should invest that usually most individuals don't have enough money. It is clear that legal separations also limit the budget of local self-government units, so it is clear how much it must be allocated for the social community, as much as for the fire department, so I don't know about territorial defence and the like. So what happened to us over the past few years has been more of a blow than helping local self-government units, let's not forget when the untaxable base has been raised from 1250 to 1500 kuna, that we've felt it and felt it in our budgets. I note, we are in favour of people getting more. But we also need to think about how much resources will remain because what remains for the units of local self-government is also getting people back through infrastructure, getting through various social assistance finally municipalities and cities because of the full budget to actually share this clearly from what they have left to share with their residents. Because we know most of it, and it goes to the state itself, the county, so that's the rest of it, and I don't know how big it is. Clearly, their perks that have been introduced over the past years are also certain that they have cheered up many of our inhabitants above all young people who enter the apartment that will receive a lot of money through tax returns. But I still can't say that they're so happy about the budget of the local self-government unit because they're making a significant reduction. I have to say the only thing that pleases us and where we lose it is the increased untaxable basics for the pensioners because at least somehow and through us contributing a little bit to someone I won't tell a leveling but at least a little help. The compensation for this was all the introduction of new taxes let's remember and the small municipalities of the get were both large municipalities and small towns, large cities the possibility of far greater taxing than they had from now on, so a new burden again. Then there were a little bit of strange taxes that were quite difficult, for example, for unprocessed agricultural areas. We know for ourselves what the situation in grant books and catastros is like, and that tax has been rejected by most city and municipal councils, in fact as inconclusive, and a lot of this has been talked about as a great help and are encouraged to process the surfaces. Let's go for a ride around Croatia today and see how much area has been processed. One of the taxes was also for construction land not built again often disputed ownership, proof, etc. So all these taxes, newly introduced taxes that are actually the possibility of a new introduction of taxes would bring very little. The new HNS proposal for PGS and LIBRE increases the untaxable base from 1.500,00 to 22.00 kuna as an alternative to normally reducing value added tax by 2% points significantly reduces the municipality's income and cities, so this proposed law is actually a compensation for loss. Maybe it's a little something, I agree. We've analyzed the numbers a little bit, I'm not going to tell you a lot today about the numbers that are colleagues and colleagues here have talked a lot about it, but it's still one compensation that wouldn't bring us much, and it would be very convenient actually if that budget didn't go any further. But look, if we agreed to cut that budget with VAT by those two, so the budget will finally become something smaller, I believe the needs are great. So again, we grab from that budget, or if we leave it like that, that we're left at 22%, I believe that support would be bigger, that's for sure, but we talk a lot about it so we don't go back to it. The law goes deep into the state budget that the previous government partially spent, or let's say, for me, the conclusion of strange contracts has limited the availability of budget money. I believe this government is going to improve what's bothering us, and it's really bothering us. We who are often with people, a lot of people go through the offices of ourselves who are still working in local self-government is a catastrophic tax collection. People come, they talk, they get paid that small, but for that little money, be assured very few people would work. So everybody gets, everyone gets under the table or this way and it's actually the goal of this government that still there I can say almost catastrophic payment improves. There is and safe and we can say the gray market of goods and services. We know a lot of goods are coming, crossing the border. Once we get into this together, I think it'll certainly improve very well, and that charge will improve the normal income of local self-government. Clearly, there must be high penalties, because without those high sentences, all of this will be stories. Since the legislators bind this law to the previous laws that propose changes to value added tax, they lower the 2% rate by claiming that the lessee will not feel the citizens. I remind them that in every election campaign, it was their unfulfilled promise. Now in the debate we've already had here and by committees, we've given up on time, but my people give up after the election of some of their promises is also a fraud of our voters. And I repeat what we have promised and do the same. I am surprised that I am also too late to worry about local self-government, because since 2000, instead of helping the heads of municipalities and cities in which HDZ members acted, they have been exposed to a terrible repression. When someone mentions the repression here again I'm going to ask them to give me a few minutes, I'm not going to go into detail, we have a long time to talk about what we've been through. Persecution, night calls, police knocking on doors, stuff like that. So much for helping local self-government. SDP signature, not HNS, but SDP was regularly in many cities and municipalities. Thanks for the smile, but that's what happened. Also in the state budgets that followed in 2000, we felt no concern for the ruling coalition for our problems. The money went clearly where they were similar. I personally believe that all of us related to local self-government in the next state budgets will find the best way to really help local self-government. There's a dozen of us who think the current mayors, mayors, former mayors and mayors, here's Mr. Mayor, etc. I believe we're all gonna do something really agreed here someday. I'm not insulting this proposal. This proposal has been well worked out again on numbers. We'd agree with a lot of things, but getting into the budget sure as hell won't get our support. I would be very glad to see that this proposal is not only a compensation for the severance and I suggest that this law be not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8862	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues visiting the Croatian Assembly are students of the crafts school from Slavonski Brod, so please welcome them. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We're moving on to correcting incorrect allegations. The first is Mršić, a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8863	I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that some cities did not want to accept the decentralisation of primary schooling. This is incorrect because the government has determined 32 cities with its decision that have accepted it, and I personally know about at least 10 other cities that would want to do so, and at this point I cannot do it because the government has just made it a decision to say 32 cities that will decentralise primary education and it is very good because there has been a serious shift in the quality of primary education in these cities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8864	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8865	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption where Mr. Advocacy spoke of strange contracts concluded by the former government. It is true that strange contracts were concluded by the previous government, the HDZ government, and one of those strange contracts just to remind the public is, say, the Istrian Ipsion, one colonial contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8866	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just one claim that I think we should slowly leave this level of controversy. The claim that there was no concern for local self-government and improvement of local conditions except where political local representatives in the executive government were similar, so the executive authorities. It's flagrant I mean incorrect and one of the best examples of it is former Mayor of Zadar Mr. Kalmet. If you ask him, he certainly wasn't from a party in power, if you ask him he will confirm to you that he is absolutely in the management of Zadar, Zadar never in his history with HDZ Mayor of the Government who was not HDZ had more progress and more benefits just has to know something to do at local level. The Law on mountainous mountainous areas, therefore in mountainous mountainous areas, border municipalities, island municipalities and municipalities in areas of special state concern has also been adopted. These are all categories of municipalities that received an average of between 50 and 100% higher budgets than they had before, which are very local and most endangered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8868	Thank you, dear colleague Pusic. Correction of an incorrect quote from a colleague of Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8869	Thank you, Mr. President. I am correcting the incorrect allegation of an esteemed colleague, Markovovic, in which he said that in the units of local self-government where HDZ authorities were referred threats, not members of the SDP. I mean, it's, not to think, but just to make sure it's incorrect and false. It would only be true if it were to provide concrete evidence and that it would be determined that we are all ready to leave the SDP because such methods are not used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8870	We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HNS-PGS Club, dear colleague Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8871	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. How happy I was that by discussing this previous item of the agenda, there was not too much politicizing we started to discuss a serious topic and again in a way that mutual political plantings went ahead of numbers. This is a bill that can be discussed by me and must only be based on numbers, data and mathematics that does not suffer politicization. In 2002, the budget of all municipalities, cities and counties in a particular county made the biggest income the City of Zagreb per capita of as many as 5 and a half thousand. After that, Istria is 4 thousand 200, so Primorje-goranska with 4 thousand and 31 kuna per capita per year. In contrast, the three examples would set aside, for example, Krapina-Zagorje County in which all the budgets of local and regionally reach a thousand 545 kuna per capita or perhaps Virovitica-Podravska with a thousand 596 kuna. Like two lowest or maybe a Međimurska with a thousand 618 kunas. It is evident from this data that the budgets of local and regional self-government in Croatia are in a terrible disproportionate manner when we convert them by population. Where's the biggest income structure in the place? Normally, it's income tax and income tax. The largest income structure of income tax and cut is recorded in Krapina-Zagorje County where as many as 51.2% of all budgets make up that tax. After that, Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska with 47.2% participation while the smallest share from the income tax and the cut is recorded in Koprivnica-Kryzevacka, only 23.8. In Istria 27.7 in Međimurska 29.6%. On the other hand, the profit tax is the biggest revenue from that title made in Karlovac County as much as 10.7 in order to make only or barely 1.4% of all budget revenues in Licko-Senjska from the title of the tax. County taxes, which therefore depend largely on county government decisions of 0.70% in the Istrian County in income structure and even 1.8% in Međimurje. City and municipal taxes in the structure of income of all budgets in each county range from 9.2% in Istria to 2.5% in Sisak-Moslavina County. I presented these data simply so as to illustrate the diversity of a particular Croatian region in the achievement of budget revenues, under the same legal solutions, by the same formulas, but with a very different economic structure. If we remember that in Croatia there are three taxes that are in the group of common taxes, therefore, shared by the state, regional and local corporate income tax 70% goes to the state, 20% to municipalities and cities, 10% to the counties. Real estate tax 40% of the state, 60% of the municipalities and cities. We come to income tax as the biggest tax that fills municipal and urban budgets, which is the only one that corresponds to employment, which only answers the question of how local and regional self-government has taken to start investment, development and increase employment. That's what I need to add another piece of information. In 2002, when all the budgets were summed up, all, 80 billion went to the state, central state budget, 4.3 billion achieved the City of Zagreb, and all municipalities, all cities and all counties in Croatia combined, 8.6 billion. Or 86.1% was the central state budget, 4.6% of Zagreb and 9.3% of all municipalities, all cities and all counties. If we enter the structure of all taxes collected in Croatia, in that same year the income tax and its taxes amounted to 8.3 billion or 8.9% of all taxes collected. Profit tax 3.8 billion or 4.1%. All the summated contributions of 25 billion and 100 million or 27%. VAT 29.9 billion or 27% and excise tax 7 billion 400 or 8%. So here we talk about 8.9% of all tax revenues from income tax or 8.9% of all budgets of municipalities, cities, counties and states. Why did we propose that the state come out of income tax and that it be not a common tax but only a local and regional self-government tax? Since it is true that part of municipalities and cities with their incomes cannot cover financial expenditures as objectively as it is now. We propose that the Enabling Fund remains as a modern solidarity in the work of this state and, according to our proposal or calculation, which we consider to be very accurate, and the Government has not challenged it, the Fund would remain at an annual level of 1 billion and 312 million. So we do not propose to abolish this Fund nor to significantly reduce its mass of funds, precisely because of these differences in the budget of a particular municipality, city or county within the county or as a whole. But our proposal also leads to the total budgets of all municipalities and cities and counties growing by around 200 million and reaching around 4 billion. With 3 billion 750 that would go to 3 billion 937 million kuna. Additional reasons for our proposal, additional reasons for emergency intervention when it comes to local self-government is the first fact that has already been serious in the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties, not in special state care and not so much in hill-mounted mountain-mounted areas is the return of income tax, making it extremely reduced walks in, especially in the first three, four months. Another reason why we have increased the untaxable part of pensions will result in a reduction in the budget of municipalities and cities to a far greater extent than this will affect the state budget. The third reason is that in this year's state budget the funds for transfers towards local and regional self-government are lower than they were before. The fourth or fifth reason in a row is that we really have the support of alliances, municipalities and cities next. Unless it's acceptable our previous proposal to increase the non-taxable part of the salary, and you insist on staying at 1500, all right. But by accepting this bill without a reduction from the revenue side, and by redistributing tax revenue in favour of regional and local self-government, we are largely solving the problem of local development, the problem that the state in this year cannot monitor part of the projects of local, or regional ones that have fallen out of the budget, and neither have we been able to accept amendments. So please try and observe this bill without the previous one, which we get if we just accept it. We get more money for municipalities, more money for cities and more money for counties. This reduces pressure, reduces pressure on the central budget and on the minister of the Church. With certainty, the possibility of projecting, forgive Minister Shuker. I'm sorry again, Minister Shuker, he's not here, so you know. And finally, Mrs. Babic is aware of me changing, conscious. And most citizens, too. And finally, the question was, where was the concern of local self-government so far? So I have to remind myself of the decentralisation process that started in 2001. Compare the budget of municipalities, cities and counties by 2000 and afterwards, and they are approximately once higher. If you don't believe me, I can provide accurate information. No need at all. In 1999, local self-government units in Croatia achieved 6 billion 141 million, and in 2002 only for a year and a half of the implementation of decentralisation, as it began 1.7. In 2001, the mass of these budgets amounted to 8 billion 672 million. In a year and a half of that. I claim that this process was due to continue in 2002. In 2002, the original revenues of local and regional self-government were to be increased. And today probably in step three to move on. But if you really think it was a harsh mistake of the former government, OK, now is the time and now we make it right. And I repeat, that when these laws and regulations began to apply, there would also be an agreement. and if further it is believed that this would significantly undermine the revenue side of the state budget and the loss of the state budget in reminding us that we also proposed this law on January 23rd, far before the Government came with the budget before the Croatian Parliament, consider the possibility, what I said before to prepare together with the Government, of course the final version for the second reading. An alternative to whether it exists in the financing of local and regional self-government, there is an alternative in local taxes, contributions and communal fees. There's no third. And given that in this year, indeed, and explaining the series of rejections of the amendments, the state could not assume the monitoring of local and regional programmes. This is one way to give the locale at least part of that compensation, part of the money that she can continue with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8872	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lesar insists something that is not true and what we agreed on last time seems to me that it is not true that all cities and municipalities will not have a larger budget. Surely it will have this, this distribution of the larger budget of Međimurje County and the town of Čakovec, but certainly also will get less through the Sisak-Moslavina County Alignment Fund, Croatia Kostanica and Glina.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8874	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Pejo Trječević. Did you hear that right? Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8875	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Croatian party's party of rights club welcomes this initiative to open a debate on the financing of local and regional self-government. But it does not support the way it is proposed in this bill. In principle, the question is why is this proposal not addressed in the last term, when the current proposing had the opportunity from the position of the authorities to realise these ideas? Apparently, there was a reason not to do it then. and we in Croatia want to achieve this right to open a debate on the issue of funding local and regional regional self-government and we will do so unless the Government puts this issue on the agenda and within 90 days directs its draft law to the parliamentary procedure before the budget is adopted for the following year. It would be good to adopt amendments to the law in a regular procedure this year in order to enter into force next year, together with the new budget for next year. In Croatia, we hold in the right party that decentralisation is the process that is necessary. But also the process that will take care of the specificities of Croatia and mean a shift in the return of the role of local regional and regional self-government. The model introduced by the government with decentralisation, which has been passed over to local and regional self-government, and the finances centralized through a balancing fund is not the one that we in Croatia keep the party of rights good for Croatia. An analysis of the financing of municipalities, cities and counties in recent years is not difficult to conclude that the political criteria in financing existed and remain. In particular, the change of government changes priorities and shifts support. This is what makes it possible to model a centralized division of budget money. It should be said that Croatia does not have a uniform unit of local and regional (regional) self-government. Too many municipalities, and according to European criteria, it will require a reform for which no government has ever had political will or strength, as it is a hot potato. Despite the above mentioned or despite the above decentralisation, we in Croatia have the right to decentralisation in a way that will ensure an even and even development of all parts of Croatia. A way to equate the conditions and economic growth and development of occupied and destroyed Croatia and those who were fortunate and spared war destruction. Disable the so-called. Meeting Croatia, which is currently leaving villages, some places die away as an example of Lika and Banovina and young and educated people go to Zagreb or abroad. In contrast, this bill suggests a cuneiform model that will make the rich even richer and the poor even poorer or add to the one who has even more. By applying such a law in a few years, we would be in a situation where certain local environments that are poorer and who cannot finance themselves and such environments would go into bankruptcy accounts would be blocked and we would have to know that municipalities and cities of gentlemen are not companies. Where there is social sensitivity, what will happen to small municipalities that have 1,000 inhabitants and even fewer and have employees only in the state administration. If such municipalities do not have any, one economic operator in its area may be ten percent of the population of one municipality and less income. Then imagine how that municipality could be self-financed according to this proposal. Therefore, the Croatian party's law club is not only in favour of decentralisation, but also in favour of the reconstruction of local self-government before the adoption of the law on how to finance local self-government. When this bill was adopted, the differences would be further increased and the divisions deepened. Which is not good for Croatia and which is not good for Croatia is not good for the Croatian party of rights either. Therefore, this and this proposal, a law on the financing of local and regional self-government, cannot support the club of representatives of the Croatian party of rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8876	I thank Mr. Representative. We have two corrections to the incisive quote. First, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8877	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that only obligations have been transferred to the anis and the financial assets transferred. Therefore, the transfer of all powers was followed by the transfer of the share of income tax. A colleague I'm mayor I know very well, you know. The transfer of powers has been transferred and the share in common taxes has been increased. And a settlement fund was formed. So you transfer it and part of the money doesn't all transfer is part of the money. But it's an incorrect claim that only obligations have been passed on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8878	Thank you very much. Another correction, Mr. Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8879	Thank you, I must correct the allegations that by adopting this law, the rich or those who have so far had significant incomes would profit from the adoption of this law. It is simply the opposite of how quickly I was able to compare, the first six counties that would achieve the greatest benefits if this were accepted. As a result of the increase in revenues. Krapina Zagorje Bjelovarska bilogroska, Požeško Slavonska, Dubrovačka neretvanska, Osijek Baranja, and Splitko are Dalmatian counties that have had the largest income growth. And among the smallest growth in the budget would be in Međimurje County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8880	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8881	Mr. Vice President, my colleagues weren't correcting the wrong allegations, but my colleague, the Mayor of Koprivnica, probably didn't get me very well. I was talking about municipalities that don't have decentralised funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8882	All right. Thank you. In the name of the HSS Club, Mr. Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, we're obviously having an interesting debate, but I'm always a proponent of numbers, so let's try to talk some numbers. What's the state's attitude towards local self-government units? And let's think about the way this proposal deserves a second reading, regardless of the connection to the VAT law. I believe that if we want something more in nature to be more involved in a decentralised approach for a reginalisation of Croatia. That we just need to change this state of consumption of the collected money, and spend budget money on the state. And the local self-government unit. According to the audit we have here on the benches, in 2002 the state collected and spent 80 billion 207 million, City of Zagreb 4 billion 314 and all other units of local self-government mean cities and municipalities 8 billion 672 million. In the structure of 86% of the states 4,65 Zagreb and 9.3% of all cities and municipalities. These are the facts that are figures and 97% of all revenues are made by the state and the city of Zagreb. I believe that's enough reason to think about the changes to this law. 8 billion 672 million kunas spends 568 cities of municipalities and counties. It's interesting if we look at the increase in revenues generated by the state and local self-government units, the figures tell us about 96 to 2002, the state increased its revenues by 46 billion. From 34 billion to 80 billion. At the same time, cities and municipalities for candles 3 billion and 900 million kuna. It is also an interesting structure of income, so it is very easy to learn that those who are the most valuable in income and those who are the easiest to collect for themselves is the country. There is PDVE with 27.8% in the structure, contributes 27% of excise duty with 8%, with only 9% of taxes and income cuts are shared between the state of counties, cities and municipalities. If we look at those direct sources of income from local self-government, then they are reduced to numbers most often below 1%. So 0.2% we have county taxes in the structure, 0.7% we have city and municipal taxes, and a little bit more at the communal fee of only 1.7%. Of course, local self-government does not have the means to maintain the construction of education and health facilities. And the roads of drinking water, and sewerage can usually only be a dream if they even raise money for a project of documentation and a building permit then they have to wait for the generous help of a country that often doesn't come. Since all the figures support this law, we need to discuss it if we really advocate decentralisation in a different way. HSSA supports it, we are willing to think about it in another reading to try to specify the redistribution between the state and local self-government precisely because we are against this centralised collection, so behind this transfer to cities and municipalities where we are actually creating one dependence on the local budget on the state budget. In any case, we argue that cities and municipalities have more participation in income tax, which is quite treasonous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8884	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8885	Dear Vice-President, esteemed colleagues and fellow decentralisation is one of the most important processes launched during the term of office of the former Government of the Republic of Croatia. decentralisation is simply the fate of this country and I hope warmly and expect its process to be completed in the term of the HDZ government. So in these four years ahead of us. What actually happened? Where are we and where are we supposed to go? In the 1990s, an overall etatization of local ownership took place. Everything that citizens with a wave of self-sufficient contributions built up by the state has been taken away and signed up to the owner. Thus, many schools, many hospitals, many other facilities built by self - contributeers passed through state property. Eleven years, for example, the headmaster of a particular school to do something at his school or to repair the banal malfunction that happened had to be called to the Ministry, to get a lot of approval, and that was, of course, cost-effective by the administration or the State budget. It all worked out. The central state budget served as a hot redistribution centre and a source of huge political power. Taxes were collected into the central budget, and then transfers to local self-government units were shared by political resemblance. So for 11 years, it's just sucked money out of my county, and according to the data, 2 billion kunas a year, it collects taxes on 120 and contributes to 120 thousand inhabitants, and all those years, the money goes back to the drop so much that the system can function without any investment or even any depreciation. All these 11 years, for example, in the General Hospital in Koprivnica, no single medical apparatus has been purchased and everything from the State budget or all that has been purchased has been bought by donations. Then it happened in 2001. In 2001, after 11 years, the law said that, not that the state would give something but that more taxes that are collected in a particular unit of local self-government would remain where these taxes and arise and are transferred to the natural obligations and responsibilities of the county and cities over primary schooling, secondary schooling, health care, social care. What happened? It happened that the counties or county heads and city heads knew in advance what money they would be able to have in that financial year for this segment, an important segment of social life in a local community because it is important for citizens where their children and what schools they will go to, what hospitals they will be treated in, are there going to be any improvements, whether there will be purchases of additional equipment? The decentralisation of funds and obtained in a certain percentage relative to tax, income tax and a settlement fund was established so that those who did not have enough of the Alignment Fund received as much as they should have received before decentralisation of transfers from the State budget. So no one's been put into a situation that can't work. Either he had a lot of decentralised income, income tax, or he got money from the Alignment Fund. And the thing is, it's on. The thing just started. Schools began to be renewed, hospital equipment started to be bought, school equipment started to be bought. It's better to arrange for the transport of children. They started to build or upgrade facilities of care in social care so the whole system was, the system was on its way. What happened politically? Politically, it happened that the mayors and mayors no longer had to come and break the thresholds of ministries and ministers and kneel to get started some investment in their city and in their county or, God forbid, they would just get some more paint to paint an individual classroom. The decision on income tax created in that unit of local self-government remains or is transferred to the place where it should be and is headed by that unit of local self-government. To the City Headship, to the City Council at the County Headship and the County Assembly. So the decision on income tax created in a local self-government unit from Mark Square has been transferred to cities and municipalities, but it has also been transferred to mayors and mayors because now more parents and patients do not ask the Minister of Health what will be in the hospital, do not ask the Minister of Education what will happen to the school than they do teachers and teachers and doctors and doctors address the counties and cities and ask what will happen to their hospitals and their schools? This process is one of the most significant processes that has taken place in the past period in the Republic of Croatia, and this process must continue simply and because in the process of approaching the European Union we must decentralised everything that is decentralised in, in Europe. decentralisation, of course, doesn't mean what we said the other day that the individual ministry moved from one place to another or part of the ministry. Decentralisation means that the powers of the state are lowered to lower, lower levels. decentralisation means that what depends on living in a local community is that it must be decided in that local community but that the local community must also have fiscal potential to finance it all. The HNS proposal goes beyond that, to be taken on the one hand and on the other hand to put rather than simply to keep more income tax where that income tax comes from. So unlike what we had before and unlike what we have in the budget this year, everyone will depend on their own development. The local communities are now becoming dependent or dependent on the number of employees, becoming dependent on how much wages they pay, and thus also on how much taxes are paid on those salaries paid to that local self-government unit. And they are interested in encouraging, developing entrepreneurship, enabling job creation, removing administrative barriers. This law therefore addresses a whole series of other issues that we are talking about today in Croatia. It is impossible to imagine that again these issues that the mayors and mayors now can decide must be re-determined in certain ministries, but it is unimaginable and that we are now standing from 2001 to 2005, 2006 or 2007, and we are waiting for the next step of decentralisation. Unfortunately, at this point, the state budget has not fulfilled its obligations to local self-government units as regards the settlement fund for the first 3 months. And that's one of the problems that will be removed if this law is passed. Because there's no reason to wait for the money to go to the State Budget and be returned to the local self-government units. Common taxes must remain immediately in units of local self-government and money must be made available simultaneously to local self-government units when available to the state budget if they relate to the same common tax. It's not like that today. Today it happens again that all the money, apart from what is decentralised, is being collected into the state budget and then here at Mark's square, decides to redistribute that money. It is again decided that Croatia is developing unevenly de facto, because if you look at the budget for this year then there is almost nothing in the budget for northwestern Croatia. In this budget, almost northwestern Croatia has been forgotten. This law, proposed by HNS colleagues, will make it impossible to do so in the future. The law stipulates that even regional development of Croatia finally begins, but that regional development is not dependent on cities and municipalities from ministries and government rather than contributing to it jointly. Mayors, mayors and mayors are willing to take that responsibility we just have to give them a small power instrument, which is to decentralize something more common tax. This law does not lose the state budget because it only redistributes differently, and now the state budget will return the money collected from the salary tax to the units of local administration and self-government, but will return in a different way. They will return in a way that will redistribute them with political will. They will return in a way that remains, so it is easier and better to identify a particular need in a particular county than in the Ministry of Education. Is it not easier to identify a particular need for social care in a local self-government unit than at the Ministry of Health and Social Care? It comes back to identifying, articulating and meeting the basic life needs of citizens in units of local self-government where they are, where they exist and where citizens expect them to get rid of them. Today, unfortunately, mayors and mayors and mayors are still too dependent on the state budget, dependent on the government, are dependent on individual ministries. A lot of assurances should be made in order to meet a local need, and this law allows it to strengthen the fiscal capacity of local self-government units and thus the mayors and their chieftains can solve all that is necessary. Of course, in the process of some municipalities, some cities will not be able to meet all needs, but the proposal remains that 25% of income remains in the Fund for Harmonisation. It is precisely to help develop units of local self-government that will not be able to do so by decentralised income, but we cannot accept that all units of local self-government must seek funds from the Harmonisation Fund. Obviously, then, it is necessary to correct such a system. And I conclude, so the process that started in 2001 should be continued as soon as possible anyway. This is one step that could make it very easy. Since it is a law in first reading, it is a very high-quality, very good basis for this law to begin the debate in this House on the whole package of laws and measures on local self-government to see what is with funding, which is with status, which is with the way leaders are elected in local self-government units. All of this whether we really want to be in line with the good principles of democracy and the promises should end by May of this year because the elections for local self-government units are in May of next year. Therefore, on behalf of the SDP Club, we support this law and invite all MPs in this House to support it too and to allow, in a second reading together with the Government, to redistribute the money that will eventually end up in units of local self-government, but also to encourage a serious discussion in this Parliament on decentralisation of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8886	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Zeljko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the funds were shared according to the political resemblance of those to whom they were to be assigned, and it is forgotten about the war, the creation of the Croatian Army in that period after "The Storm" and the restoration when they were to us, I am telling us that houses were destroyed when we had no place to go back. So, definitely centralised was supposed to be and she's justified, and I definitely refuse to share funds according to political resemblance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8888	It's an expression of opinion. Correction incorrectly cited by Mr. Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8889	So here I am on the trail of Mr. Nenadic's thinking, only I will quote what Mr. Mršić said and this is this: "The funds have been collected into the central state budget and distributed according to the political resemblance and until 2001. "years." That is simply not true, and I will set an example for the River. At the time, the chief was in Rijeka for 30 years, Mr. Linic, and the presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia were HDZs Mr. Valentić and Mr. Mateša. The largest funds not only from the state budget but even from public state-owned companies such as Croatia's waters so they can say HEP, huge investments were made from these state-owned public companies right in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8890	They went because it was a general Croatian, I guess. For the next 10 minutes, Mr. Zvonimir Puljic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Excuse me. Mr. Jozo Radoš came forward on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, this debate that we're having about this in a somewhat casual atmosphere is due to this leniency of good and bad. It is good because it can be opened with more arguments and less political tensions, these important issues that are increasingly moving into the focus of our policy, which is of course good, and it is bad because this issue is not given enough attention. That question certainly deserves our attention. I would comment here, i.e. give the motionor's position on some of the statements that were made here, but I would also give some further clarifications in relation to what was said here on behalf of the promoter at the outset by Mrs Vesna Pusic. I'd like to at least talk about it already, certainly disprove what Mr. Markovanovic said here on behalf of the HDZ Club. He spoke and used a lot of heavy and rough formulations that there was persecution, and it was terrible, etc. I wouldn't go into that unless I wanted to say it wasn't true. There was talk that for local needs, i.e. local communities, funds were shared according to political resemblance. It has probably been in all periods of our power since when there is a Croatian state, but it is expected that there is less and less. Because whoever does it where he has given more is rewarded, but where he was less punished, I expect that every Croatian central government in the future will give up the mechanism, but I am sure there have been some terrible persecution of the leaders of the units of local self-government ever since there was a modern Croatian state. However, what goes into the very essence of this proposal is Mr Markovanovic's claim that this proposal reduces the incomes of local self-government and administration units. That's not true, that's the attitude spoken when it comes to income tax, and it was known, of course, that this law transfers those funds to local self-government units so that according to this proposal, some 3 billion dollars for 3 billion and 750 million kunas, how many units of local self-government and administrations are given under this Act, or by this tax, that revenue will grow to 3 billion and 937 million. So somewhere in about 200 million kuna, the incomes of local self-government and administration will grow, so let's be clear. So that one part of the income under this Act, but since under this Act state revenues are given to units of local self-government total income of local self-government units under this Act is growing. But what's more important than that is actually a comparison of fiscal capacities, i.e. the fiscal forces of local self-government units. Speaking of the Income Act, I remembered in 99, when I was a member of the relevant Council of Europe Committee and in which the power of local self-government of certain Member States of the Council of Europe was given. At the time, the Council of Europe was numbering 40 countries. Croatia then made about 14% of the local self-government's income compared to the Central State's incomes, which therefore accounted for 86% in an infamous 30th place. Since I haven't particularly dealt with the issue of local self-government in recent years, I expected this percentage of 14% of the past years to grow, however, when I looked at the State Audit Report that this data provides, unfortunately, that is not the case. According to the State Audit Report, local self-government revenues are no more than 14%, which could have been expected but unfortunately accounted for 13.9%. That means that the percentage is stagnating. What happened? It happened that as the incomes of the local self-government unit grew, the revenues of the state budget also increased, so unfortunately that percentage is more or less the same for the last 10 years. About 14%, which then means that the state is still in the lower home of the countries of Europe, the Council of Europe member states that have, therefore, much higher percentages in terms of the share of local self-government in the incomes of the central state. Some countries, headed by the table, have the revenues of local self-government units greater than the revenues of the state. Therefore, the share of local self-government in the overall financing of social needs in these countries is higher than 50%. In Croatia, it is 14%, less than 14%, and it is expected that we fell from 30th place even lower because it is expected that the trend is increasing the share of local self-government units, so local administrations are generally growing in the member states of the Council of Europe. It is certainly not an honor, therefore, and this proposal should be considered in that sense. This proposal should actually be just the beginning of a real, real process of decentralisation and the strength of local self-government units. This proposal reduces the revenues of the state budget of these 86%, which the state has reduced by about 2%. So somewhere to 84%, and incomes, the units of local self-government and regional incomes, of course, increase from 14% to 16%. That's absolutely not enough, that's small. Croatia must take stronger steps towards decentralisation, according to the strength of local self-government units, and this is only its first step. Mr. Trčević, speaking on behalf of the HSP Club, says why it has not been done before, at a time when most, or all the legislators of this law, were, therefore, in power. Because some assumptions have to be realized. In 99, the government budget deficit was over 6%. In 2003, it fell to below 5%, and only when the state deficit of around 3% or below 3% is planned, then it can go more strongly into the decentralisation process. So in that sense, there is one logic. You can't go with decentralisation while you have such a high deficit of the state budget and that's why, therefore, now is the right time to move into that step. But after this, there is Mr. Tradcevic and all the others who have spoken of it rightly that there will be no difference, there is a reduction of the difference between the units of local self-government. They will improve compared to the state, but there will be no significant reduction in the difference between them and therefore the next step in decentralisation and the strengthening of local self-government units must also be a change in profit tax. From the revenue shown in the State Audit Report, the City of Zagreb, which accounts for a fifth or less than a fifth of the population of the Republic of Croatia, has almost half of all the income of local self-government units, and of course it is not an idea. When it comes to profit tax, it is paid, i.e. by the income of those municipalities, or those cities where certain companies are established. And real investments, all problems, risks and everything else suffer from those units of local self-government where these companies are indeed located. And if we want to take a second important step in decentralisation and all these goals that are spoken of, in the principles that I think there is no dispute here in this House, then this, this important, good law should be just the first step. It should be followed by a change in the Tax on Profits Act, where a portion of the profits would also be transferred to local self-government units in which that profit is realised. And as a third, last and final step and part of the health care contribution should go to local self-government units. It would then be a full step, but of course, full success, but of course every success, every good move begins with the first step, and that's this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8892	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Krunoslav Markovović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8893	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, here, you'd just correct Mr. Radosh, who didn't, who said I'd said there would be a reduction in the incomes of local self-government, which is not true. I said there'd be a cut state budget. Then, he mentioned persecution, I apologize to the gentleman, his party probably did not participate because in all the lawsuits, the State's Attorney's office was signed by the municipal or city council of SDP. And the formulation is probably the same according to the district that has been sent all over Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8894	Thank you very much. Ten minutes, Mr. Damir Spanish, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8895	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don’t know if it’s better to speak at the end of the debate or at first to be sure that it may happen again at some point, but it may also help me to explain my personal attitude. I will certainly begin sentences with what I have done in the past nine years, I have been mayor of the town of Pakrac, another city after the city of Vukovar after direct war destruction, and he is very well aware of the problems and the city of Lipika, which is unfortunately in an infamous third place. So I can talk a lot about the problems we've been dealing with in the past, in the past few years. Perhaps only one good indicator to start a debate on decentralisation and the proposed law. In the period from 1997 to 2000, the city of Pakrac received around 130 million kuna for the reconstruction of capital facilities from the state budget and unfortunately only 30 million kuna in the period 2000 to 2003. So, that's just talking about what kind of problem we've been dealing with, so we can say 4.5 times less in the past four years we've been given to rebuilding and constructing capital facilities, and hence the precondition for opening new jobs since the subject of income tax. My colleague Lesar said, the numbers and the data speak, but I'm here to say that the numbers and the data speak, and they're a good topic for us to talk about, but they're also a good time. And I will look back at my presentation why it takes time to start making laws, to pass laws, and to realize it itself. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government. Personally, I believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the committees that we have received, have decided not to accept the proposed law. Allow me and my few thoughts. The budget for 2002 has already been adopted and the adoption of the bill would violate the tax sharing relations between the state and local self-government units for this fiscal year. Which means that this bill is actually an amendment to the already existing budget, that funds should be redistributed. Two. Prime Minister Sanader and Minister of Finance and Mr Schucker announced a full reform of the tax system, so I propose a proposed debate on the subject should be carried out when the government sets out a proposed reform of the tax system. The government will certainly, given the good foreign policy it has started with and on which the best path and ended quickly, be in a position to coordinate various numbers and laws that are directly linked, and one of them is certainly also decentralisation. The European Commission's positive attitude towards the Republic of Croatia will also open the doors of various European Union funds and development banks, and for these reasons local self-government units will be able to achieve various funds from various funds. In fact, I can tell you that already a large number of cities from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Poland, you know very well how to make funds directly from the European Union funds. I believe that soon we cities from Croatia will be able to... In all of that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year, the full return of income tax is also detached from the state budget for cities and municipalities from the zone of special public concern that we who live and work in these areas welcome. Knowing that a new Law on Zones of Special State Interest is being prepared, it is to be assumed that certain changes in city and municipality financing in these areas will also be incorporated. Namely, what happened last year. Last year, Pakrac was lucky that it did not happen because of the state of the budget, however, a large number of cities and municipalities were practically blocked between May and August due to returns of taxes that went to cities and municipalities. That's why this year, anyway, we're glad it's not gonna happen this year. In Article 1(2) of the proposed law, amendments and additions should be clearly incorporated into certain parameters relating to the budgetary situation of cities and municipalities, as the area of special state care becomes richer and poorer. It is necessary to stimulate the ability, but also to help those who for objective reasons cannot yet realise projects and fill the budget nrp. the state of the infrastructure or the destruction of the economy. Countys that have special state care zones in their areas should still be subject to a certain period of time if it is two to three, two, three or four years to obtain stronger support from the budget in order to even the region. In Article 1(3), I believe that an even greater percentage should be related to the funds heading towards the islands, as they are certainly in one difficult position. However, a period of time should also be installed there and it should be made clear that local authorities in these cities and municipalities could make projections and that they would be aware that the state will not constantly help them through various support. And now maybe one of two examples. For example, my Slavonia. What's gonna happen? We know that the agrarian is in a difficult position and that they should be developed for the next few years intensively, if they are also going to accept this law, there will certainly be less budgeting. So, there is a direct link between the developed agrarian that we need to make and the normal income tax that people will make from developed agriculture. It is certain that this is the period from 2004 to 2005, given both the announcements and the minister that relate to the more intensive development of agriculture. And maybe one message to bigger cities. These are primarily university centers so that they are cities of more than 100,000 inhabitants. It might be very good if one percent of that income tax were to be allocated to both higher education and science. But I leave it to them and the Croatian government, so one smaller percentage can also be made for the funds that would go in, to improve higher education. And in the end, I would like to conclude that it is certainly another short term of government that the government is only three months away and that we are just about to have the right preparations for these laws to be discussed. Surely these 6 billion debts we spoke of from the previous government are one big problem that needs to be solved this year. So those directly financial nature and normally that should give the government a reasonable deadline that will go towards reforming the decentralisation system, therefore, the authorities. I think this should be just the beginning of the debate on this law because the law clearly defines the future of local self-government units, respecting the specificity of various areas. So the discussions that preceded us need a lot more indicators to make it easier and to go into debate and go towards the adoption of this law. I personally am not in favour of accepting this bill because if this law is now going to be adopted, it will happen that large areas of Croatia, which are zones of special national interest, I hope soon and developed areas, will be a big divide between them, as far as economic power is concerned, so it will happen that we who are in these areas will practically become a colony of developed parts of Croatia. We also need to develop this war-deprecated and uninhabited Croatia so that we can perform together as we enter the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8896	Thank you very much and last on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, Madam Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8897	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, only for your dissent on behalf of the motionary. It is true that this year's budget has been adopted, but no VAT reduction law has been passed by two points since 1.1.2005 only proposed and discussed. For this reason, of course, even this law would not apply immediately, this is the first reading, we have a lot to discuss and logically, only it can be applied since 1.1.2005 and in fact what we are talking about is whether a more effective law that costs 3 billion kunas and perhaps brings less benefit to the citizens than 1.1.2005 or laws that cost the state depending on the calculation of the State budget billion and 750 million ratios 2 billion and 400, also applies it from 1.1.2005 and brings a certain benefit to the citizens and additional units of local self-government. And of course you also have the right to have this huge difference that exists between municipalities and cities in areas of special state concern is something that needs to be reduced and that needs to be eliminated gradually but this really contributes to it. This is going that way. The first step has already been taken, the first step was taken in the past term when municipalities in areas of special state care, islands, border municipalities and municipalities in mountain-mounted areas received special status as regards the return of taxes and their budgets increased from 1.7 last year on average by 80% at Croatia's level. This is step two.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8898	Thank you very much. Correction of the quote. Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8899	Mr. Vice-President just said that the areas of special state interest before the area of special state concern, the mountain and mountain areas were given special status and that is true but we did not get the funds, and that is exactly what we have told you today that since 2001, I am sorry that there is no fellow Mršić here, that the real funds have been allocated according to the political option. So he could find out, let him call his father's place where he was born in the Mushima, in... So let him ask what the property ended up with in 2001 until 2004. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Water was stopped, general infrastructure was stopped, something just didn't stop, branching... where people who became members of the CNS paid off. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8900	It's not a correction. It's an opinion. And as the last person to answer today for the debate is Zeljko Nenadic. [[Intruder: Reality, it was, it was true, yes]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8901	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues I will be very brief because, that time has passed for us, but definitely here is after the debate that was held in this high house I would say that we have come to, to what is actually these bill proposals were intended and achieved. It is, in fact, a matter of strategy and implementation of the Government of Croatia programme for which it received its mandate from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on 23 November 2003. Decentralization yes or no? I personally, and I believe that all of us in HDZ are definitely for decentralisation because it has its advantages in relation to the centralist system, but not at all costs. I am sorry that there is no dear colleague Mršić here to ask him if he thinks that our children must go to a less equipped school just because they were not born in Zagreb, Rijeka, Čakovec or Koprivnica. The national policy of the Croatian Democratic Community takes care of all citizens of Croatia, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia equally when it comes to education and health and social care and that is exactly what the Harmonisation Fund is for. When we talked about the Income Tax Act where, the proposal was that the basic, untaxable basis increased from 1500 to 2,000 kuna, the question arises who would use it? Normally, those citizens who earn more than 1500 kuna per month will benefit. Now I ask you if you know that there are also those who have a salary of 1,500 kuna and less. For them, these amendments and additions to the law mean absolutely nothing. In our parish, Sisak-Moslavina where I come from I have a lot of people working for 1500 kuna and less. I don't know if you're familiar with that. When Mr. dear colleague Lesar worked very hard to show us the diversity of Croatian regions that we are all aware of. Yes, Croatia is, and this is both its advantage and its lack. So isn't this diversity of Croatian regions a condition of limited decentralisation? To ensure that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia live equally, that they have an equal standard. Isn't this diversity of Croatian regions a condition of survival and an increase in even the funds of the Fund for Alignment, and this Law definitely brings it down to a minimum. Also, if you allow me something about the methodology of calculating the honored vice president of the Croatian Parliament Mrs. Pusic when you spoke about those 1:19 means the city of Zagreb has 19 thousand dollars gross national income, and some of the county's thousands of us in our county were somewhere in 5th place from the back, we were not satisfied and it was not clear to us where we from the gross national income of $1500 per capita and we asked and succeeded on the Economic and Social Council of Sisak-Moslavina County to invite the study author to explain how this happened to us? Because we know that's not true. And then we received information that this study covered only twelve companies without INA in our county, without HEP, without thermal power plant, MORH, MUP under the chimney system in Sisak, and cash register in Zagreb. And it definitely proves with this that there are different calculation methodologies that can prove either this or what we want to prove by it. I suggest that if we already want to prove something calculated and I'm normally a professor of mathematics and I can say that there are various methods how it works is important that we take premiums to calculate the methodology. I suggest then, if there is something to be calculated, that we take the first number of citizens who receive a salary of more than 1500 kuna for each county or city. Then so far the funds in the budget of cities and municipalities that have come from the budget and from the decentralisation Fund, the pardon Fund for alignment and the third, to calculate how much this would be through the application of these amendments and the addition of the law that is now on the agenda. Then we'll just get to the right state of things and I'm telling you, I've been doing something superficial that's going to be a losing thing for both Sisak-Moslavina County and the city of Kostanica and the city... and all those other cities and municipalities that are located where there aren't many employees and where wages are extremely low. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I would conclude that with what I started that no one has the right to confiscate the Government of the Republic of Croatia the right to implement the programme for which the voter of Croatia, the citizens of Croatia, was appointed. So let us let the budget we voted work the way it was brought and let all these issues remain for another debate. I therefore resolutely reject the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8902	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Gristle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8903	Yeah, you called me, so I'm here, right? Uh, tax, tax, you called me sorry. Income tax is the income of a local self-government unit where the resident taxpayer is resident and not where he works. So it doesn't matter if someone's doing it, it doesn't matter where they sleep and how much they pay. So whether he pays the income tax or not. Well, that's where it's supposed to be calculated. Otherwise, in my speech, I never said I was up for some of them not having schools, I'd be up for it if everyone had a high standard of school. But I'm surprised that Koprivnica, who gives per citizen after Zagreb and Istria the most taxes in this state register, children have to go on three shifts. That's what I was talking about. Therefore, a higher rate of decentralisation of income tax does not mean that something will be taken away because the government still has an even greater budget of 72 billion and is projected to settle 25% of the billion kuna. Which can help these local self-government units. It's good to listen to what someone else says so they don't talk differently. And I'm pretty sure that local self-government units where mayors can buy official cars for 700, 800 thousand kuna, there's no need to give any more help.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8904	Thank you for the reply to the replica, and then the missus has a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8905	I was talking about the methodology then I was talking about that wrong method you weren't present so you didn't hear. The wrong method was to calculate those 19 on the 1st. Because it just happened that they didn't respect the salaries of citizens living in the territory of Sisak Moslavina County. That's exactly what I was saying. And on the other hand, it's normal for everyone to go to school today. Especially primary school. So we can't talk about it. Someone goes to school. Someone doesn't go to school. But someone has an information store and someone doesn't. Well, whoever doesn't should be provided. At least that's my attitude. And if we almost 50% cut the settlement fund, I'm asking you where the one who doesn't have the IT classroom will get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8906	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President Vesna Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8907	It is incorrect that this is how solidarity is eliminated, which is expressed through the alignment fund. The Alignment Fund has repeatedly been highlighted in the proposal and one and the other laws remain, remains at the same rate. It's a settlement fund. Only the difference in this edali is to ensure greater autonomous revenues to local self-government units. In other words, the famous syntagma has given you better to give you fish or to teach you how to fish. This is to teach you to fish, not to give you fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8908	Thank you very much. We've exhausted today's agenda with this. And I'm closing this debate on this agenda. And the vote will be when the appropriate conditions are met. And now I am re-informed because my colleague Arlovic has already said that he will continue the sessions on Wednesday 31st at 9.30 p.m. and that we will start with drug abuse laws that are on the agenda. I wish you a pleasant weekend to rest well, and to come to the Parliament next week with renewed powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-03-26-0.u8909	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 11. The legislator is the club of representatives of HNS, PGS and LIBRE. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government proposed by the Club of Representatives of the CNS, PGS and LIBRE for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the reports of the working bodies shall not be adopted. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that with 76 votes in favour, 38 against and 3 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work at the 5th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all! In order to facilitate benching, you are given the consolidated text of the agenda. We have our agenda, I suggest a united debate. - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the control of drug abuse – Proposer of the SDP Advocacy Club, first reading of P.Z. No. 35 - Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the laws on the prevention of drug abuse, first reading of P.Z. No. 52 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the debate is united, according to the custom of some on behalf of the proposings, representatives are entitled to up to 20 minutes. I ask on behalf of the SDP Club, Honored Representative Milanko Opačić to explain the additional bill proposal on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
