ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17719	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I will only talk about one aspect of the introduction of this proposal for a Transport Safety Act, Minister of the Interior Dr. Mlinaric will talk about other aspects and Ms. Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt about the Law on Violations. I will concentrate and remain only on that one segment that is extremely interested in the Croatian public, which is the percentage of the alcohol in the blood, I will say in the introduction that there is no safe one who disagrees with us that the situation with the number of victims in traffic, the number of deaths in traffic is catastrophic. This year, the number of victims was 339 victims, since the beginning of Croatia's independence, is 11 and a half thousand deaths in traffic, which is certainly catastrophic, and that is, if this were to continue for what time recently, the number of traffic victims would almost equalise with the number of deaths in the Homeland War. There is no doubt that in this respect we agree that all measures must be taken from legislation to the application of these laws in practice in order to prevent this from being prevented but not only in terms of alcohol but also in all other conditions on the roads, road repairs. Ensuring that some state roads don't drive helmets like that in other Western countries, we have a case of the Podravska highway on which big deaths occur and the helmets are even from some third, fourth countries avoiding highways from paying taxes, taxes, going down that road. Extorting the road means we have expenses, but big car accidents happen. Therefore, we will probably take the Podravska highway and some other decisions tomorrow at the government's meeting in Gospić, and so far we have consulted the practice of other countries, and in line with this practice of European countries, we will do the same in this regard. But now I'm going back to this bloodbath thing. So far there have been 0.5 diversifications allowed in the blood, the allowed amount of alcohol, the government suggests 0.0 we are aware that it has caused and caused different debates and we are aware, and in Croatia we are probably great masters in finding border cases that should then say that this law is not right, so we heard that three Griotes or a kilo of fruit that fermentes if you eat it, is just a question of who ever ate a kilo or a kilo of fruit, so the priests can't drive etc. These were topics that have been of interest to our public in the past few days. I've personally missed 0.0 because I think we need to send a strong message. Not a message that you don't drink, sometimes whoever wants to drink, but after that, you can't drive. I think we have to make it very clear that we are neither against my Dalmatians nor against Zagoracs who will drink bevanda or gemist or anything but do not drive after that. Or if he drives, let him not drink. I've lived a long time abroad, as you know, there is, in Austria where I lived there's practice that when you go to the company for dinner one is sacrificed that way, the second time and not drink but will drive company, or drive a taxi etc. I know this proposal if we adopt it, I know it's radical, but I think it's extremely necessary. Reactions to the public change research in the polls we conducted and in the counties are in favour of the fact that the vast majority of people support this. There are those who are against it, there are those who are for it, and we have heard there are several MPs within our HDZ party who suggest 0.3%. All right, let's consider that, I don't mind, but I'm calling on everyone to take care of what's useful to the nation. Which is useful for the health of the people, for Croatia, because this number of deaths is simply terrified that we can tolerate such a situation further. If we save one life with such a law, then all the suffering of those who will because they have drunk and will not drive that evening is worth it. And that's why I'm asking you, I'm calling for an extra-party consensus, and I don't think this is a topic, and I'm personally behind this 0.0 change in the price of being told you're going to lose, because I don't think it's important whether the electoral body is this or that supports it, but what's good, which law is good. So I'm not for petty calculatorism, but I'm for really doing everything, so if Canada can have that, if it can have some federal states in the United States, if Hungary, the Czech Republic and some other countries, most of the European countries have, should say, there is 0.5% as Croatia has so far. Some Scandinavian countries have 0.2% just in order to avoid perhaps these border cases that we talked about in the press the past few days, the priests, etc., which after three mass, will probably have something, but I know it makes it difficult for some people to live, but I'm sure that this effect will be extremely good and beneficial for the whole nation, because ladies and gentlemen really it's scary we've all been looking at those terrible pictures of last week for the weekends, when young people go to discotheques and at 4:5 a.m., they sit behind the wheel and experience what they experience. And some of our friends known have experienced these terrible tragedies. So, let's do something I'm calling for everything to do, I'll personally be up for 0.0, but if we see, in the debate of the prevailing that for these reasons of some others, we'll see what we want to listen to, of course, and public change, so we're also our county activists are investigating what people say, they're doing the polls. I'm personally up to 0.0, and you decide, I wish there was one consensus here because I'm sure life can be arranged with little difficulty and that it can be arranged that way that if you drive you don't drink, and if you don't drink, you don't drive. That's how much I wanted to say at the beginning. The other segments of the Law will be discussed by Minister Mlinaric, and the proposal to amend and supplement the law on the violations of Minister Skare-Ozbolt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17720	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17721	It's probably an unintended mistake because in the end Mr. Sanader has corrected himself, it's about the differences, indeed a few of you have repeated in percentages that would be extremely bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17722	Okay. I'd like the Minister of the Interior of Mr. Marijan Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17723	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Here is the proposal for a new Transport Safety Act. We remember that the Transport Safety Act was passed in 1992 and significant amendments to the road safety law were made in 1996. Since the start of the application of certain measures prescribed by this law, such as the introduction of penalty points, stricter penalties for the harsh violation of traffic rules with the possibility of withdrawing a driving licence at the scene of the infringement, the verification of the knowledge of traffic rules, and others, there has been a significant improvement in road safety. Thus, from 975 people killed in car accidents in 1992, the number was reduced to 627 people killed in 2002. Despite the increase in the number of traffic accidents, there was a reduction in the number of people killed and seriously injured. However, there was a deterioration in road safety in 2003, which shows an increase in the number of people killed and the number of injured. In that year, 701 people died, which is more for 74 people than in 2002. Unfortunately, the unfavourable trend of road traffic victims continues in this year. In the first six months, there were 43,000 160 car accidents, 1873 accidents or 4.5% higher compared to the same period in 2003, and 317 people died, or 39 dead or 15% higher, compared to the same period in 2003. And 11 thousand 996 people were injured. This has already prompted that during the previous assembly session, this law was twice on reading changes and additions. And so we had to approach the new law now. If we briefly analyze the most common causes of traffic accidents, then we see that this is an irregular rate, with a share of about 33%. No respect for the advantage of a 13% pass. Driving at an unauthorized distance with a stake of about 10%. Irregular overrun with a 7% stake. The share of alcoholism in car accidents is about 7%. And the share of young drivers in car accidents with dead persons with about 25%. The main characteristics of the road traffic risk situation in the Republic of Croatia are the basic characteristics. A marked deterioration in the security situation is linked to the application of the Law on Infringements of 1 October 2002, the application of which has been put into effect by a series of until then effective measures of the applicable Road Safety Act. Like protective measures, negative points, temporary withdrawal of the driver's license up to 90 days, and another. The current state of implementation of the Road Safety Act is so that, in addition to traffic management and enforcement, all other measures we take remain truly ineligible, given the state of the Criminal Law. The very unfavourable state of traffic on roads with a tendency to apply the non-implementable law was sufficient reasons for the hasty adoption of the new Law, which entirely and which is existentially governed by this area. With the draft road safety law proposal, we have also launched a parallel initiative for amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements. The implementation of the text of the law was attended by several experts from all resolutions who have in any part the points of contact with the Road Safety Act. Translations from Italian, Austrian, Slovenian and other mentioned laws were also used. The text is in line with European Union legislation. The text of the draft bill is a nomotechnical way for the criminal provision to be found immediately from, with material provisions such as nomotechnical arrangements have been approached for practical reasons, since this law uses a wide range of persons, so the law will be able to benefit more easily. In the proposed proposal of the Road Safety Act, the following paper is the most important in relation to the provisions of the current law. The material provisions in the current text of the law have been corrected and supplemented in such a way that they are more understandable and clear with a view to efficiency for transport safety. Local and regional self-government units shall be empowered to organise, in accordance with the regulations, the performance of certain traffic control and management tasks. Then, in order to protect the environment, the obligations of drivers and other road users on the ban on leaving or throwing objects or waste on road and road land are more precisely prescribed, as well as damaged and worn-out vehicles on the road and other surfaces. The age limit of validity of the driving licence is increased from 65 to 75 years of age with its replacement every 10 years. The supervision of the work of car schools and the conduct of driving tests shall be transferred to the Ministry of the Interior, and driving tests in the future will be conducted at test centres designated by the Ministry of Interior, where driver's license will be issued. The obligation to wear a safety helmet for bike drivers is introduced, for walking at night it is prescribed to wear reflective markings on roads which are unlit. It shall be more precise when and in what cases it may be excluded from the traffic of the driver and the vehicle, and the mode and procedure of exclusion. The newspaper introduces the exclusion of riders and passengers of mopeds and motorcycles if they do not wear a helmet. A ban and a penalty for using a cell phone is being imposed. The installation and use of devices which may interfere with the traffic control device shall be prohibited. And what caused the most controversy in the press is the introduction of a complete ban on the proportion of alcohol in the body when operated by a vehicle, and the penalty is graduated from only fines to the maximum penalty provided for in this law. At this point, I must say that not only as Minister of the Interior, but as a doctor, I am for it, because in countless cases as a surgeon I was present when patients were brought in in an alcoholic state that caused car accidents and made me unhappy except myself and many who were not under the influence of alcohol. So, under the influence of alcohol, they have not only made themselves unhappy, but also many innocent victims. In the bill of law, the blades of criminal policy are aimed at the most severe violations, and more severe penalties are foreseen for the so-called so-called. intentional undisciplined drivers, for example parking in a place reserved for disabled persons, mobile use during driving, not tying to a safety belt and other. The fine is proposed in the amount of 500 kuna for not wearing a protective helmet up to 700 kuna. The most severe punishments are intended for the most severe violations. A fine of at least 3 thousand kuna, a ban on driving a motor vehicle for a period of 6 months and 5 negative points are proposed for: Driving under the influence of alcohol when it has more than 1.5 prominence or is under the influence of intoxicating drugs. The drive, the speed in the settlement, which is double the allowable if it crosses a speed greater than 100 km per hour. Running away from the scene of a serious car accident. Refusal of subjection, examination or medical examination, or taking blood and urine to determine presence in the organism of alcohol or intoxicating drugs. For motor vehicle drivers, trams or driving instructors who, for a period of 24 months, are being fined two or more times in law for these offences, it is predicted that the Criminal Court, instead of fines, imposes 60 days in prison. All parallel but also for lower speeds, for less alcohol the penalties mean from 2 thousand kuna or three months three negative points or a thousand kunas 2 to 6 months and two negative points. For traffic offences caused by a traffic accident, stricter penalties and two additional negative points are foreseen. As you can see from the data on traffic accidents and the proposed criminal policies, it is obvious that criminal policy is focused on the main causes of traffic accidents and casualties. With the system of negative points, we especially want to act on drivers who do not change their behavior. Therefore, when we propose a new measure in line with amendments to the Law on infringements of the suspension of the validity of the driver's licence as a final measure with nine negative points. Prior to that, with six negative criminal points, the measures provided for in the consequences of the car accident and the safe driving school would apply. Dear MPs and MPs, I hope that we all understand the gravity of the situation on our roads and that after discussing this law, we will accept this law for the benefit of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17724	Thank you. Please, Minister of Justice Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17725	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements relate to ensuring the effective implementation of the infringement provisions contained in the new proposal of the Road Safety Act. As the Road Safety Act provides for the tightening of criminal sanctions, it was necessary to adopt a provision in the Law on Infringements so as to increase the total maximum fines for natural persons from 10 thousand kuna to 15 thousand kuna, while for legal persons a maximum of 100 thousand to 500 thousand kuna was increased. Provisions concerning the protection of motor vehicle management measures have been amended so that this protection measure can now be prescribed and imposed as a obligatory measure and a new safeguard measure has been prescribed to suspend the validity of the driving licence and this is due to the cumulation of a number of negative points which may be imposed on the perpetrator of the offence and as provided for by the Road Safety Act. In order to ensure the effective application of road safety measures by police for the most serious infringements prescribed by the Road Safety Act, the withdrawal of the driver’s licence was also necessary to amend Article 138 of the Law on Infringements in a way that would ensure the withdrawal of the driver’s licence in duration and in the manner prescribed by the Road Safety Act. And let me tell you something else in the end. This novel, very short novels as you had the opportunity to see in the Law on Infringements, is merely an agreement with the proposed new Law on Road Safety and yet it is important to say that the Ministry of Justice, on behalf of the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has begun working on a comprehensive amendment and complementing the material and procedural provisions of the Law on Infringements and all in order to achieve greater economicity, urgency and efficiency of criminal sanctioning. In the fall, we can expect a comprehensive new Law on Infractions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17726	Thank you. Committee rapporteurs, Legislative Committee, Internal Policy and National Security? President of the Committee, Representative Ivan Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17727	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 17th session held on 12 July 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Road Safety with the final proposal for a law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 8 July 2004 with a proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure. The Committee does not object to the proposal for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure because it estimates that the law is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. In his opening statement, he introduced the committee members to the reasons for the adoption of this law and to the objectives which seek to achieve new legal solutions. In particular, the trend of increasingly unfavourable road traffic in 2003 continued in 2004. As a reason for improving the safety of road traffic, it also lists a change in the Law on Infringements applicable since October 2002. The applicant's representative particularly worrying about the safety situation has assessed the consumption of alcohol participants in transport, the loss of young drivers with insufficient driving experience, driving without passing a driving test and insufficient education in driving schools. The Committee fully supported the presentation of the representatives of the legislators and had in particular taken into account the fact of a significant improvement in road safety and the threat of all road users. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Road Safety Act in progress as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17728	The Justice Committee, President Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17729	Your Honor, your Honor, Minister! At the 8th session held on 12 July 2004, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on infringements with the final draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by its act of 8 July 2004. The Committee discussed the law in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 73. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. The Proposer's introductory representative pointed out that the adoption of the Road Safety Act should amend certain provisions of the Law on Infringements. The level of fines prescribed above has been increased and natural persons and the range of fines for legal persons and the safeguards for the prohibition of the management of motor vehicles as obligator are also prescribed. It was assessed in the debate that the clumsy formulation was contained in Article 5 and that the amendment should be submitted. It is also necessary to nomotechnically edit Article 32, and in paragraph 3 behind the word "officer" should be added: "is". Following the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on infringements with the next amendment. Amendment 1 to Article 5 In Article 138, paragraph 4 adds a new paragraph 5, which reads as follows: "A precautionary measure for the withdrawal of a driving licence may be imposed on the police for a period of time and in a manner prescribed by a special law. After the expiry of this period, the police may request the Criminal Court to extend the precautionary measure to withdraw the driver's licence if a request is made for the initiation of the infringement procedure." The current paragraph 5 shall become paragraph 6. Explanatory - It was obvious that the applicant's intention was that the police could change the way and duration of the measure of withdrawal of the driver's licence and not all other precautions to result from the first sentence of the proposed amendment in Article 138(4) of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17730	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of HNS Representatives of the PGS and two MPs. Dragutin Lesar, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17731	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, at the time when a new law was announced from this area would come to the Assembly, in the Croatian public, various discussions were held on one, possibly two topics, and much was said about how much alcohol had passed in the organism would be acceptable to us in Croatia and on the other hand how to solve the problem of young drivers, young people in terms of inexperience in the traffic itself, not just in the age of youth. And on that occasion, there were different speculations, bickerings, different attitudes. And I believe that this Law, and even after consulting many people who deal with road safety matters, is not so important and will not so much fix the issue of road safety because the forest of the Law is not only in its own or its most important change but in its application. And just in this area, it seems to me that lately we've been getting more and more applications, and more and more changes that I'm trying to justify the need for a different regulation. The issues of control and prevention of traffic, and this Law, do not solve matters more significantly differently. So, even this new bill of law, that part does not bring or introduce a large newspaper into the control and control functions of the traffic police themselves. So I'll take advantage of the minister's presence and ask if it's really true that the traffic police have a problem with the rolling stock, which they can't or can't cross more than 30 km, 30 thousand miles a year. And when they cross that line, they put themselves in the garage. Is it true that in traffic accidents or accidents they travel through public transport because there is no car, no gas. Is it true that often movies on the scene must be bought on their own because a large savings has been introduced. If that is true, then the issue of application and the new law will not give much greater effect. That is why I decided to look back on only two parts of this Law that I believe may be extremely important especially because we are also introducing new obligations on one hand without playing money at the same time. By way of derogation from Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council may, in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Regulation. Those who worked in local, local or regional self-government first know that this provision is almost impossible to implement because if it is within the jurisdiction of the representative body to make any decision since then whether or not the law is implemented and the adoption of these obligations, such as: the identification of the road with the advantage of passing should be addressed by the County Assembly or the Headship, by a more representative body. But before the congregation makes a decision, it must have prior consent. So a proposal must be established, sent to Zagreb for consent and only when the consent comes back can the assembly decide on it and that means that the assembly can no longer change anything because the consent is given to that text that was sent to Zagreb for consent. I appeal to Mr. Minister and Proposer not to go to Article 5, not to the representative body, but to the headship so that agreement can be truly achieved. The same provisions in paragraphs 4 and 9 introduce new obligations, municipalities, cities and counties with regard to and transport units of youth, as well as with regard to the supervision and management of parking spaces owned by municipalities, cities and counties. For example, it is an obligation that those who control the parking lot in the name of the city must wear special uniforms that will be prescribed by the state body for the state administration but nowhere does it say that the state budget will provide a new one for this implementation of these parts of the law, which is a new cost and a new obligation but new money for local and regional self-government to implement this Act is not available. This is the 7th commitment only in this year's new one that we transfer to local self-government without a single kuna of extra money. And the second topic I wanted to talk about is about marking works and obstacles on the road. There is no record in the materials of how many people died, how many cars or engines have been broken down and how many einvalids have been created because our roads are not safe for traffic, because on our roads, when a Uaran hole appears, as we often call it, there is no obligation to close this road for traffic. When half a metre of water appears on the road that throws both engines and cars, there is no responsibility for that road to be closed for traffic. There's no one responsible to intervene, and then when there's high growth, trees and forests closing the view of the sideways or roads that they're involved in traffic, you have to drive into the middle of the intersection to see if anyone's coming to you from the left or right. There is no authority of the officers or inspectors to force the person responsible for maintaining those roads to react immediately by closing such a road. And right in that part, I believe that such provisions with legal or physical persons responsible for the maintenance of the road are required to take care and take appropriate measures to enable safe and uninterrupted traffic to take place because they can always say that they have assessed that traffic is safe. And therefore my second appeal to the minister, and there is time here until 20 o'clock tonight, that the question of the obligations of those who have taken the obligation to maintain roads be linked to the decision or decision or to the inspector or to the traffic police, in which time obligations will be clearly introduced to respond to their call and as a measure of protection of traffic participants to both the inspector and the police to give authority to temporarily close such traffic for all traffic. I also note that in Croatia we have tips on transport security, although in budget rebalancing we have greatly reduced their money and so is in the field whose advice and suggestions are usually not heard and respected. So the question of their existence is also asked. And second, what if on the road, for example, appears as in Article 11, paragraph 1 states that a legal or natural person who is due to works on the road or for other reasons, is to be listed as a dive, skating, snowbending and secondly forced to organise the most alternating failure of the vehicle from opposite directions, managing this failure, setting up temporary devices for giving signs to traffic lights. So, what if that legal and physical person didn't secure it? Nothing. Nothing, if you don't come to the scene so what if that legal or physical person didn't provide it. Nothing. If nothing comes to the scene of a police officer or a traffic inspector and he does not see it too, there is no sanctions and therefore I wonder why the issue of criminal or criminal provisions when a person, a citizen in the case of a foot-and-mouth traffic participant, is immediately possible to impose those sanctions on the spot, however, when it comes to those entrusted with the maintenance of roads most directly affecting traffic safety, there is simply no provision for forcing them to intervene immediately. The fact that a road company is going to pay 3,000 kuna fines if it hasn't closed down a road that's completely incompetent to traffic, and a man died or a car was broken down or a disabled person, what does that mean for those who got killed for it? Ministers, I appeal to you, please in Articles 10 and 11 of your own amendments strengthen in a way that traffic police and inspectors have the authority to close the road so long as those who are authorized to maintain it do not implement the measures envisaged. Thank you very much, and on the second part of my colleague Ivanis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17732	Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, second part on behalf of the HNS Club, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17733	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs. This is one of the topics that generates great public interest. We know why, it says in the explanation. We've all been talking about this for weeks. At least a dozen people called me with all kinds of ideas to change those laws that aren't experts, but that's how it is. It's one of those topics that everyone is thought to be invited to discuss competently. No one will competently discuss how to operate the bile, but everyone will competently discuss how to run economic policy, how to organise traffic, how to punish drunk drivers and so forth. Such a topic is also politically popular. Of course, it's already a series of facts. We are in danger of being pulled away by that euphoria. And I think that it happened partly in, in the very text of the law to you, to pull us back into revolutionary changes, and if we analyze them simply and from the perspective of our own actions, from the perspective of the behavior of neighbors, friends, relatives, and so on, we'll find that it's actually provisions that no one is carrying out, it's not going to implement, and it doesn't even intend to implement. For example, I cannot believe that all cyclists in Croatia will soon, soon, when this Law comes into force with helmets on their heads. You can imagine what Varazdin would look like at 7:00 in the morning. That's funny. Of course that's not gonna happen. Of course the police won't stop two or three thousand cyclists in Varazdin and punish them. The pedestrians moving around the stake should have fluorescent clothes. Of course you can't force a man to buy fluorescent clothes and walk down the road. It can be said now that the law is programmable and that it plans what should actually happen in some bright future. That is true, but if some of the provisions of the law are such that they cause laughter, then that laughter is easily spread to other provisions. So whoever's breaking the bonding order is going to say, so you don't respect this, so I'm not going to commit, am I? Well, I guess I can have a glass. Once again, the text of the Law can be both good and bad if it applies to all citizens and if it applies, if there is a clear organisation of repressive measures and a clear organisation of supervision, then the law is good. I'm afraid it won't happen with some provisions, it will happen with some of the provisions of this law. The moment some of the provisions become academic, the whole of the law gets a college tone and becomes something we stick to if we're really watched and someone catches us, and there's no big chance they'll catch us. So much for this road traffic law. A few words about amendments and additions to the Law of Infractions. As the Proposer stressed the amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements are actually adapting to the provisions of this first law, the Law on Road Safety on the Just Letter but also, and, and to the spirit of the law. So tightening the sanctions. At the same time, the authorities of the police are expanding, especially in transport and other system repression authorities. But a clear self - repression cannot solve the problem. And maybe even significantly reduce the number of cases in a shorter, shorter perspective. But it is also clear that the system cannot function without repression. If there's no repression system, the system, it's actually rhetoric. Maximum fines for natural persons are increased and minimum and maximum fines for legal persons are increased. No matter what the public, and the public debate that's being held all over the country, in fact, about this Law on Road Safety says, I don't think those penalties are, they're not, that, in order to make repression intolerable. The fact that I have spoken of in accordance with the intensities of this previous law should be borne in mind that these levels of fines that are changed in the Law on Infringements are actually applicable to other offences. I don't think that's bad. More or less. But we need, we need to, we need to be clear that in each of those cases where no special law has been decreed which fine, which fine is applied to a particular offence that the judge will be able to determine this maximum penalty which I suppose is good. It is impossible to limit the validity of one such system law only to the area of transport without including others, and other areas where infringements occur. A safeguard measure shall also be introduced to withdraw the driver's licence for certain infringements or purchases of penalty points due to successive recurrence of the offence. The difference between the withdrawal and the termination of the validity of the driver's licence is that it is the first temporary and second permanent solution, but also such a repressive measure is certainly justified in the case of the most serious traffic offences, or in the case of relapse, recurrence of the offence. Society has the right and not only the right but also the obligation to protect those members who respect the regulations from those who are unable or not willing to do so, they do not want to do so, and they physically endanger them. We also find it unquestionable that the effectiveness of the measures can be significantly increased, and the possibility of malfeasance that there is, of course, lessens the implementation of a provision under which the measure of caution to withdraw the driver's license, but only that measure of caution, no other precaution under the Law of Infringement can be prescribed and implemented by the police. It's completely illogical and, and fatazmagorically, that the offender who commits the most serious traffic violation who drives under an almost lethal dose of alcohol in the blood is, like, tomorrow morning sobered up and hung up and hung up and took his driver's license and took a seat in his car and drove away until the end of the misdemeanor procedure as if nothing had happened. This novel will hopefully stop me. All in all, if we accept the fundamental intensities of the Road Safety Act there is no reason of course to accept the amendments that do not accept the amendments and supplement the Law on Infringements which is more connected to each other finally and the discussion is so. The problem that needs to be faced is not really the question of how restrictive these measures have been given by dragons or not, but how they really apply in practice. It has also been possible to punish more rigorously or more rigorously, even by current regulations, and violations that no one has ever actually punished. Ask yourself how many times you've been stopped in town if you haven't tied up and punished yourself for it. Personally, I don't know when I was in town the last time I got tied up. But on the other hand, when we reach the border with Slovenia, each of us first binds and certainly turns on the light. Not because the punishment there is so great, but because we are absolutely certain that someone will punish us there. The HNS Club will support these amendments to the law by counting on them to lead in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17734	Thank you. HSPa club, who wants to go first? Dear Representative Pejo Trčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17735	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, members of the Government of the Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The assessment and presentation of the situation statistically in the Road Safety Act proposal is well-represented. However, the proposer does knowingly or unconsciously not get into the essence of the problem. Because the following shows are missing that actually affect both the safety and orderliness of traffic on our roads. There is no picture of the measures that edo has taken now, let's say in a positive sense to resuscitate the existing situation, such as the education of road participants, and especially those who manage motor vehicles on our roads. There is no indication of the situation that has been done to curb alcohol in young drivers where the special role should be to highlight the measures taken by the Ministry of the Interior and the healthcare organisation through the visions of the medical examination. We are wondering what measures have been taken to remove aggressive drivers from traffic that are under the influence of drugs and alcohol. There is also no indication of the state of acquisition of the driver’s license and what to do with participants who cannot complete the oscillating exam or what to do with participants who pass the driver’s test and then consume already mentioned drugs or alcohol. The measures proposed in this law are that they will not produce good results or sufficient results. In the state of affairs, it was necessary to analyze who is driving us all the way down the road. Which vehicles are operated and what kind of training is owned by the person who drives the car an road. I do not know whether the driver is called because he did not comply with this draft law, Article 2 paragraph 60 of Article 4(6). Road transport laws. For the sake of illustrations, I will show the number of qualified candidates in auto-schools to me the closest Sisak Moslavina County and I will set an example of a car school where C and E exams of the category that have acquired the right to drive the most difficult vehicles. In the last 3 years, taking note of one auto school, total students C and E category 251 of these 251 students C and E category 158 has a primary school. Incomplete high school 58 and high school only 34 complete. So, noticeably, it's not the only reason for all the accidents that occur at our drinking sites, but also the education of the driver, and I can say that the Ministry of the Interior has done nothing or has not done enough about financing and immersion in the education of drivers themselves. Analyzing voe data, it is evident that all persons who have acquired the right to drive motor vehicles, certain categories under the road traffic Sig urn Act, are allowed to operate public vehicles. According to the Road Transport Act, none of these persons should be involved in traffic. Where you really need to look for the causes of then bumps in traffic, accidents, and so on. If we help the data presented with the number of car schools in the Republic of Croatia, we will get even more difficult conditions than I mentioned in my Sisak Moslavina County. And the question is the education of drivers whose knowledge, skills and habits directly affect the safety of all road users or traffic arrangements. In the last three years, I'm going to show a study done on 38 4 auto-schools in the Republic of Croatia, so enrolling in C and E which is 96 Tuisu and 300 drivers, and the disastrous result is that as many as 60 thousand and 600 people with primary school are. With an incomplete high school of 22 thousand and with a high school of only 13 thousand and 400. If we apply on our roads the Law on traffic security Article 2 of point 60, then we have the excess and unnecessary secondary education of drivers because they are both needed and educated equally in the management of motor vehicles on our roads. If we apply road transport law Article 4(6), then we need to make a decision on the emergency education of this number of people who appear on the roads without actually knowing I'm talking about heavy vehicles without knowing the burden distribution, the burdens, the load properties, the forces that work in turn and so on. It is apparent from the above that the Transport Sigurity Act is its Article 2 paragraph 60 in direct contrast to the Road Transport Act and its Article 4(6). I would especially like to point out here that all these needy drivers today unfortunately manage the motor vehicles of the category they own. In order to avoid the law in cohesion transport, in particular its Article 10 has been notified to its employers as auxiliary workers because such an option allows them the Transport Safety Act, Article 2 paragraph 60. We also note that all of these in the table so far listed drivers today also possess certificates for the management of vehicle sets carrying dangerous loads, and that the employer has been reported as auxiliary or transport workers, because the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Freight requires the person to only own a driver's license and nothing more, which is the biggest tragedy actually caused by major accidents on our roads. As regards points 2 and 3., the issue criteria must be strengthened, in fact, by the medical convictions of the mental and physical ability of the motor vehicle control candidates so that at first they know clearly who can drive the vehicle on the road and who can't. As regards point 4 and this must be clearly established when passing a driving test, so that anyone who cannot pass a driving test in five attempts must be sent for an extraordinary examination of the mental and physical ability to drive vehicles on a motor vehicle, i.e. anyone who, after having passed a test of three to five years of age, commits a serious violation of the use of drugs, alcohol, and drives too quickly and causes a major material damage accident, etc. it must also be sent for an extraordinary medical examination to determine whether such a person may continue to operate the motor vehicle or not, and only after the medical examination has been carried out shall he adopt measures in the form of sanctions prescribed by this proposal of the law. I will say one more thing on behalf of the Croatian Party's club right here to limit the percentage of alcohol and the proposed percentage of 0.0 in the blood. Namely, if a bill is passed as proposed by the government to limit the percentage of alcohol in the blood to 0.0, it opens up great possibilities for manipulation. In fact, if someone takes a little more alcohol today, he'll have to wait about two days so he can sit down for a motor vehicle and only then be clean from 0.0. Is it really the point of this law to prevent accidents on the roads or is it actually a proposal for this law and such a proposed charge of the state budget? Looking at the statistics, at least those drivers who have been involved in car accidents that have so far been allowed 0.5% of blood alcohol. So it's not the only and biggest driver who had up to 0.5 alcohol and caused a car accident, but the biggest problem is that drivers who had over 0.5 alcohol per cent in the blood, and for those of us in the Croatian Party club, we consider alcohol-sustaining rights over 0.5 will not be worth a bill of 0.0. So the Croatian party's right club holds that it is good to leave a limit on the percentages of alcohol in the blood to 0.5, so we will not be able to produce problems either in the case of special professions such as priests or others. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17736	Thank you very much. The second part of the presentation, MP Pero Kovacevic. Here you go, my colleague. Here while you're getting ready, I'll give you one brief piece of information. There are a dozen registered clubs, 40 registered representatives for the debate of 10 minutes. We will work without a break today, so arrange a time for your own needs as short as possible, 15-20 minutes to work better and try to finish work at a decent time. Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy. It's not the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17737	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must express my surprise that President Shakespeare did not interrupt him and warn him that he cannot use his own examples to call for a violation of the rule of law, because we have heard a speech that does not bind himself with the belt, we have heard a speech and a skeptic that these laws will not be implemented while he, unlike us, the HSP of the HSP constantly knows how to break, and we are talking about the subject. This is therefore a warning that the assembly cannot speak and call for violations of the rules and give examples of how regulations should be broken. Speaking of this law, I must mention first and foremost, that we here with Slovenia are one exception within the European Union and the countries of Europe because it is only the case in Croatia and Slovenia that the Ministry of Interior is proposing these laws and as such it is no wonder that only these laws provide for repression, because police as such are normally repressive and she suggests repression. In other countries other ministries suggest this, i.e. transport and others, because we cannot achieve the goal of repression, the objective must be achieved by both prevention and must be achieved by education and regulation of roads, traffic markings and other things. Imagine you individual solutions I must tell you that the competition touristic will use for itself. Take only the provisions of Articles 113 and 127 relating to helmets. For helmets, imagine in the morning that Grandma wears milk at 80 and she goes with a helmet. Imagine this variant, imagine the next variant. At the magistrate's office, so the Adriatic magistrates will have to wear reflective markings for us outside the settlement. They're going to have to wear reflective markings, and that's what competition will benefit them, because we don't have a foothold on the Adriatic magistrate. Thus, this is the problem when something is proposed and not thought to the end of the consequences. If this was what Prime Minister Sanader was saying, he's in 0.0. Okay. But then you, Mr. Minister, should have put exactly how many car accidents were committed, and the cause was alcoholized from 0.1 to 0.5. Then I'd take it as a lawyer, as a practitioner, but you didn't put it on. I see Zeljko says it's put on, but I don't know where, but we'll hear about that part. So there's a lot of problems. The further problem of that nature, let's tell the difference, we can't take away the driver's license, it's anti-constitutional. A safeguard measure may be imposed against the management of a motor vehicle. It can be said for four years, for five years, but not taken away. How can you subtract? If you stick to that solution, then I suggest that many of the government who give us non-quality regulations take away a degree in law school, because we had some regulations here and then be consistent with that part. But let's stick to this country's laws and regulations. So it's an anti-constitutional provision. Now I'd like to get a little bit attached to these parts of the other section of the Criminal Code. The current Criminal Law thank God that we change it, but we only change it in one smaller part. The current Criminal Code is so complicated and is no longer effective in the way that the infringement procedure has the purpose that it is short, simple and to achieve its purpose. That's what the data tells you best, let's say in 2003, within the criminal courts, that they solved 40,000 cases less. In 2002, when the old Criminal Code was applied, 364 thousand cases were solved. In 2003, when a new one was introduced, only 322, and the big problem was the billing. Because there's no solution that was charged directly through ZAP before through FINA. So, a fine of power, and now we're in a situation where many objects go out of date. A lot of things go out of date. I don't know, that, when the former PKK coalition did it they didn't simulate at all what it means in practice. This violation law we have at this point. The problem with that is that the Criminal Law, for example, does not distinguish the issue of fines from the question of fines. So we have to go to full reform of the Criminal Code in a way that is simple and that the purpose is achieved. Because I'm saying, in 2002, it was based on the state budget of 115 million kuna, and in 2003, when the current law of 101 million kuna came into force. So far less than expected. And now we're going to a different situation. We know beer is a food product, wine is a food product, right? So we have to change the whole situation. So it must be prohibited to advertise wine and beer, they can no longer be food products. Why can't I? Because they contain alcohol. So be specific. So you have to think about it when you introduce something. There is a situation which will, therefore, help us to fight touristly in these situations, there are other different situations. Let's just say, just the case where the order was to buy equipment new for the ambulance, first aid in the car, and imagine, it was entrusted to a Slovenian firm. So who do you trust with your helmets now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17738	Thank you very much, colleague. There are several corrections to incorrect allegations. I suppose they want to remind you of the text of the law. He's the first representative of the dance. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17739	Thank you very much. I am correcting the incorrect quote of my colleagues Kovacevic who said that Croatia is the only one with Slovenia in Europe where the MUP proposes such a law. This is not true because the Ministry of the Interior proposes the Transport Safety Act in Portugal, Spain, to certain federal states in Germany, mostly in France and the Benelux countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17740	Thank you very much, colleague. The next amendment is fellow representative Krapljan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17741	Well, I'm just going to correct this quote by my colleague Kovacevic that, uh, it's about helmets. The bill promoter meant people under 16 years of age and above habits. And it would be good to introduce it, and I think it's in the text, the proposer will complete that part if it isn't. But surely the government's amendment is going and we've talked about it, and it will be settled today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17742	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacevic, have you decided which side of the table? Hurt, go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17743	... Vice President, Mr. Krapian has not corrected me. [[Specially enabled.]] I've read...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17744	Article, article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17745	209th Normal. Paragraphs 1 and 2, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17746	Of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17747	If you need 3. He's talking about whoever he wants to be, what he's going to be, and we don't know that yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17748	Thank you very much, this has been useful. Minister Mlinaric called. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17749	Honorable MPs, since some of the topics here are often repeated again, so they don't repeat themselves again, so let's get right to it. The helmet for cyclists is precisely that, these reasons are predicted by the government's amendment of up to 16 years. So you get wear habits, so it's fun. It's hard to predict that grandma from, so all I, well, I mean, here, so I can say the answer. So the same reflective markings for unlit roads outside the settlement will also be the government's amendment. So, for the unlit roads. Also, driver's licenses can be withdrawn for a maximum of two years. So, then he has to go take the driver's test again. So there's no more questions about it, so that's what I want to mention right now. So there aren't any bigger dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17750	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. Perhaps the debate would have been better quality if you'd given this information in the opening part. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Kovacevic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17751	... Mr. President, you just said what I was about to say. [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17752	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17753	You just hit mine, that's what the minister was supposed to say in the opening statement, and now I have to think what they were thinking and what they're going to suggest. So why didn't they give it right away? We lost time, then I'd talk about other things that are within the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17754	Thank you very much. Looks like we're not all learning as fast as we can. Let's move on with the debate. SDP club. We've got two MPs on file. Sime Lucin and Ivo Josipovic. Who's first? Lučin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17755	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Given the situation on the Croatian roads, I think it was high time this law came into practice. Not only because of the situation on Croatian roads, but because the now applicable Law, which was passed in 96 years, treated this problem when there were about a million cars in Croatia, today there are about a million and 600 thousand. For example, when there were about a million and a half drivers, there are probably over two million today. However, I think that this type of law and their underlying problem is not only what is written in this law but what we do not have relevant indicators in this debate, and that is to what extent and how this law applies as well as some other laws. If we take into account the time before the current Criminal Code, you will find it very difficult to obtain information about how many persons, therefore, who have violated some traffic regulations, which the police have therefore raised, or raised against them, criminal charges, how many have been sanctioned, or how many have been carried out in the Criminal Court. You're going to have a hard, hard time getting that information. However, what I would like to stress here, I think that the importance and importance of this Law is so much that we should not lose quality at the sharp rush and urgency. And that's why I plead for quality. I think, in fact, that this law is of such importance, something the prime minister said about it, which is that it exceeds both partial political interests and that it is of particular national importance. He would dare say that one of the most important laws is given the problem we face and the one we treat. I believe that this law will bring unanimously, therefore, consensus that the representatives of all clubs in this House will also have understanding of certain things that we have already seen in the debate, and I believe we will see in the next one. Actually, they're not the most logical. So, as far as the SDP Club is concerned, I can say that we will fully support the tightening of traffic offenders' penalties, especially when it comes to overspeed, which is the most common cause of accidents. We also support the degree of punishment in terms of the severity of the offense, especially when it comes to alcohol. We also agree with the introduction of a test driver's license, also extending the validity of the driver's license to 75 years. We also agree with the abolition of the obligation to notify police of traffic accidents as more space and savings will be opened in these cases so that police can deal more thoroughly and faster with traffic accidents, accidents that have greater consequences, which have injuries, etc., etc. And there will be certain savings. So, just as I think about this, these issues and this law shouldn't be the difference between the opposition and the position, I also think that in these solutions offered around the level of punishment, they're actually good and they shouldn't be merciful to say so. A team before the law-abiding one will never be put into a situation to think about how to pay for the offense. I've already said something, it seems to me that the basic problem of this law of his conjecturing a simple from the following, which is, that this law was done in a way that took two variants of this law that were past and before last year in the Assembly procedure, let's say when you read the introduction you'll see that 90% of the arguments are the same and that some newspapers were then inserted. And actually when you read it, you see that some newspapers, you recognize them right away because they get into that law and I think there's actually space and opportunity for these things to change. For example, some questions are raised whether all the legal solutions in this law are constitutional, whether we are brought by excessive discretionary police rights in an unequal position under this Law and whether the rates of punishment and the severity of the infringement are measured fairly. I don't want to pick it up. If we've already set ourselves up for an emergency procedure, I think it would be wise to go to another reading, but why have we decided that this law will take effect eight days from the day of publication, so we have this law will enter into force for 10 days. What are we going to meet? We will meet that he will not bring any effects for this season and for the next two months. Why? Because it is necessary to inform if you do not train 20 thousand police officers or at least traffic police, you should also train law enforcement judges, etc., as well as those to which the law applies. You'll have situations like this so that a border police officer won't know the guest this summer if he asks what the legal solutions are. Or another problem, you have a guest who makes you today under alcohol traffic violation and you will punish him for 0.5 kuna if you catch him the next day you will punish him with 1,500 kuna. I mean, we're just getting into one situation that seems to me we shouldn't rush into it. Here we had a criminal law that we put in application 1. 10th, and I don't think we'd lose anything if we put this law first. 10. 'Cause the effects aren't going to be obvious to me. So, a lot of questions and a lot of conversations here have caused a story about alcohol, degreeing, grading, etc. As far as the SDP Club is concerned, we can accept that this rate is 0.0, however, this is not a fundamental problem and a key problem which will solve all the problems that go through traffic, through traffic accidents, as long as this law has the intensities to become European law. I will warn here that according to some of the experiences of European countries, actually countries that have rates like the Netherlands 0.5 or the UK 0.8 have the lowest number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants of 6.1%. And let's say Lithuania, which has 0.0, has the highest mortality rate in Europe at 100,000 inhabitants 18%. So we have to actually think about at least the same thing about modifying this degree of alcohol, because we're constantly trying to actually treat the causes rather than the consequences. You cannot solve the problem of addiction in Croatia through the Road Safety Act, which is big and we must actually be aware of that. No, I don't understand why it didn't work out to prescribe mandatory treatment measures. Why we only stayed at the doctor's appointment. If someone is two or three times in two years with more than 2% blood alcohol spills, we can prescribe mandatory treatment, and that would probably give him a lot more effects. There have already been colleagues before me saying that it is true that the data on how much traffic the driver was registered under the influence of alcohol, but we have one other thing that has no record of how much traffic involved under the alcohol caused the accident. And another illogicality if speed plus alcohol is the most common accident formula, I don't understand why this bill proposes an increase in speed. I know you're gonna tell me about the flow, etc., but speed plus alcohol is actually an accident formula. I could mention some other different questions, helmets, helmets. Tell me this, if the government's amendment is up to 16 years old, so you have a kid 15 years old, he's stopped by the police without a helmet, a normal kid doesn't have a student's license, no ID because he doesn't have to have it, and now a cop has to do it, and he has to go home with the kid to take his data, and by that time, he's actually gonna have five drunks going through that place. Wouldn't it be better if I was already going and I didn't mind writing bike helmets, then let's just prescribe them on highways, or on roads where high speed is allowed? I also agree with my predecessors who said that not only can repressive measures solve things, so I think it would be good in this law to prescribe things related to prevention and education. I think it should be prescribed that the government, for example, brings in a four-year national road safety programme, to appoint a working body to actually establish a way of financing. Also around crossings and marked... illuminating reflective jackets. Well, I think it'd be better to go the way it used to, and that's here from the national program to buy for all the first-class fluorescent wipes. And just two more things for a little while. The first thing is that I don't understand why I'm going back to the Ministry of Public Affairs and Oversight or about auto-schools. As far as I know, only one country had this formulation before, and so the solution is taken by the Ministry of Science and Education, only the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia had that solution, and now that solution only has Serbia-Montenegro possible and Slovenia, and no other country has that solution, it is not clear to me why it is done. I also don't understand why driving licenses are quickly transferred to an authorized organization. It says there it can, I think it should define whether or not it can, it has to, and when it's going to be done and how it's going to be done. And the last thing about transferring jurisdiction to local self-government units. I accept that as soon as it comes to removing the car from the parking space that it is given to local self-government units in jurisdiction but I do not understand that it will exclusively be given police powers, such as traffic regulation, speed measurements, etc. So I don't think I should wait one. 1. In 2007 it was given to local self-government units to manage with spiders and parking but I am not sure that in 2007 I should give them what I listed regulation of transport and that they should be given speed measurement and all that is stated in the Law. Here, given these things that I said, there are still plenty of them I believe that my colleagues from the club will bring them out, we will try to make some of our proposals, and I believe that there will be understanding and that this law will be adopted as I said in the introduction, and that is common because I think it is a national priority, and that is to reduce the number of accidents as soon as possible, the number of people killed, but also to ensure that the greater number of offenders of this Act or traffic safety is punished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17756	Thank you very much, colleague Lucin. The second part has a colleague Ivo Josipovic you have 8 minutes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17757	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. First, let me say, of course, that I support the fundamental intensity of the law and that the increased repression for those violations that are actually the most dangerous that carry lives has a lot of justification. So there's no dispute about it. What I don't think is good is how it was done and how it was planned. In fact, the process is something that guarantees the effectiveness and achievement of the measure which is also the objective that has been outlined, but which also guarantees certain constitutional rights of citizens, and I think there are certain problems in amending the Law on Infringements and in this law of yours. In any case, those who follow know that I am one of the fierce critics of the Law of Infractions and agree with Madam Minister, however, I support that law as soon as possible and as thoroughly as possible change it. However, the changes offered are not on the trail of improvement, and I think they seriously violate the legal security of citizens. Otherwise, as for that part of non-infringing in your law, I wouldn't get into it, I'm not an expert, and I'm only going to limit myself to breaking orders. Generally speaking, I think the breaking norms have been dealt with extremely badly. I've been involved in a lot of laws, I've been dealing with it, I have to say that I've rarely seen such a bad actually nomotechnical solution that doesn't meet some essential standards. First, the news that Ok. can accept this news, it's the only law that violates norms has built into the very text of the law, is not at the end as breaking regulations. That's one news we may need to get used to. But what happened. There have been some errors from nomotechnical to content, for example you have so-called. The dead souls, therefore, remain the number of items you were practicing outside, so they remained, for example, in Article 280. There are some problems with the hierarchy of values, let's say the one who drives, the one who's half-blind and drives without learning is being punished by 300 kuna, the one who carries a phone in his hand with 500 kuna, I think there's a certain disproportionate value. Second, there's a lot, I can't take it all out now, it would take a very long time. In a crowd of provisions you have vague provisions that address the norm, so to whom the code of error applies, on the one hand. Or did it happen to you that those whispers, so that basic material basis, that her correspondence infraction doesn't suit her, is probably in the computer that copy, then paste, so there's a craftsman in a lot of places, there's a legal person or an individual talking up there, and in an infringing norm only an individual, a craftsman. Why was that done? No, it's probably just some kind of slip. Secondly, in some cases, the criminal code does not respect the status of incrimination that is a delinquent of propria, so only one who has a duty under the Law to do something, such as one who is authorized to set signs can misdemeanorly respond. I don't think the craftsman is authorized to set up a breach, he may be physically nailing the sign. Therefore, he can't even misrepresent you, yes. Or, say, you have a case where you don't punish, say, pedestrians for signalling when they don't respect, and you punish drivers. Why? I personally don't think there's any rational reason. It'll probably go with the amendments. And now comes what's most sensitive that's so for this, which we're saying is the temporary withdrawal of the driver's license and the corresponding violation provisions of the Violation Act. It's not true that even now the police can't suspend their driver's license. It may do so and must react within three days with a misapplication, a request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure, and in doing so, the court shall approve the measure. It's one thing for me to say, in all these precautions for better solutions, so maybe within three days it's too short, maybe an eight-day period would be more appropriate. Why? Because it is a restriction on one of the essential rights, not only of this one, but also of other precautions, and it seems to me that the principle of proportionality which... the constitutional principle requires that such rights be restricted within a reasonable period of time determines the court. It seems to me that it's this extensive giving of authority for 30 days, so when it practically connects to the possibility of issuing a non-judgment order, the drivers will be able to be much longer without a driver's license. That it does not correspond to this... constitutional principle and that it would be good to consider whether it is necessary and whether it may not be a submission to a committee rather than a real need. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Subtracting the driver's license where you see that after a month there doesn't have to be a misdemeanor procedure at all. So, the police take the license, then they say, well, we won't, here's our license back after 30 days, which I don't think is good. When we talk about the Law of Infringements, especially these changes, which are proposed, I absolutely support the tightening of fines. But of course with regard to these precautions, I don't think it's a good thing we should limit it to maybe one longer term than it is three days. That would be a lot more detail, here's a light on this lamp, I see there's one correction to the wrong quote, so I'd like to hear what it is and maybe answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17758	A colleague, Josipovic, this is only the first light, you've still had up to a titrating few.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17759	Then I can do a little more, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17760	Yes, you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17761	So, if there is another minute, I would also warn you of the fact that according to the present state of affairs, measures of caution relating to others, for example, the police, according to at least as it stands in the text, could temporarily prohibit you from carrying out certain activities, for example closing a place for a month without a court ruling, or you might be banned from any movement without a court ruling. And I personally think that such a thing really is the opposite of the Constitution. I think it's too short a time until 20 o'clock to thoroughly rewrite this one, maybe it's possible. However, it would be necessary, in my court, that a really serious effort be made to get the nootechnic infringement provisions first in the Law on Road Safety and then to properly resolve the Law on Infringements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17762	Thank you very much to my colleague Josipovic. Before we proceed to correct the incorrect allegations, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a debate from 10 minutes, so we stop at number 40 plus 9 clubs. Well, have a good day. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. He's the first representative of the Krapjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17763	Thank you very much to my colleague Josipovic. Before we proceed to correct the incorrect allegations, I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a debate from 10 minutes, so we stop at number 40 plus 9 clubs. Well, have a good day. We're going to correct incorrect allegations. He's the first representative of the Krapjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17764	Hey, buddy, time. Thank you very much. A representative of the Dance. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17765	Thank you very much. Well, it's very short. A highly esteemed colleague, Josipovic, was probably a lapus. He said, I'm going to quote exactly, "You punish drivers and you don't punish pedestrians.". This is not simple because articles 124 to 132. really have penalties prescribed for pedestrians.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17766	Thank you very much, Comrade Dance. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Lucin. Here you go, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17767	Thank you very much. My colleague Krapljan actually violated the 209th article of the Rules of Procedure because he did not correct my incorrect claim but expressed disagreement with me. I don't think there are any in the Rules of Procedure, but I agree with him, but the problem is like I said what this law doesn't offer, let me think of a co-existent solution and these few solutions should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17768	Thank you very much. I wanted to consult the Rules of Procedure, but there's no need. Let's move on. Damir Cain, IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17769	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, The first thing I'm saying is that this law is as unimplementable as it is proposed without at least ten new prisons being built in this country for our drivers who are likely to go to prison for a new one rather than pay the fine, not because they would not want to pay these dragon sentences, but for the reason that gentlemen will not be able and I think these measures are simply an exaggeration. I agree with all those who spoke earlier that there was too much blood on our roads. I agree that too many young people die on our roads. I agree that youth, speed, alcohol as the net said was the most common cause of severe car accidents. But I'm also going to say this that as unpopular as it may be at times when it's being created, I don't know the hysteria from the MUP to the media that everything can be resolved by the high sentences in traffic, whether in some other spheres of public life, let's remember how there was a debate over the Penal Code. Gentlemen, not this social tragedy, means death on the roads will not be resolved only by high penalties, although they would be happy to have at least relaxed it because in the first five months of 2004, as the minister mentioned on our roads, 248 people or 42 died more than in the same period in 2003. It has often been called here by Cardinal Bozanić, who has pedanticly calculated that in 13 or 14 years more than 11 thousand people have been killed in traffic in this country and that the figure is slowly approaching the victims in the Homeland War. But what are the reasons for the gentleman's condition? True, Croatia has opened more than 300km of new highways in the last four, five years, but other state roads are simply in poor condition. They were building signs of highways, neglecting so-called highways. The state roads and in my court are the first reasons for this condition. I repeat, our roads are simply in poor condition, every rain actually sows death on the roads. But we've heard that information, too. In 1996, 721 people were killed in this country. Back then, in 1996, we had a million 526 thousand drivers. Please note that it was not then in the function of this Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade transverse de facto it was a year without tourism. Last year or before 2002, there were 627 deaths and a million 920 thousand drivers in the country. So we have 400,000 more drivers, we have more cars for 670,000 and a hundred less dead than in 1996. True, last year, there were 701 dead but that's less than dead in 1996 or 1997 on our roads. So this statistic is saying something. So I was about to discuss this assembly or this pay phone and two years ago when it was also the first reading of that proposal before us today. However, the question arises as to why this psychosis is suddenly created in public over what is happening on the roads. Well, I'm holding on maybe because of that, and that's a huge social problem why it's being created. Even because these big political topics are disappearing in Croatia, and more and more of us are just starting to deal with life issues that are certainly dominated by the economy, unemployment, the budget that yesterday was about, death on the roads, no more stories about The Hague, war, I don't know about relations with neighbours, etc. And that's all good. Secondly, our vehicles on the side of 70 to 80 thousand new cars each year are usually all older each year, all the worse and citizens who are decanted without money often can't afford new tires and let alone a better car. Here I will also say that in Croatia we have about a million and 700 thousand motor vehicles and insurance companies estimate that about 150 thousand unregistered and unsecured vehicles are moving on our roads. They're real traveling bombs. Annually these vehicles in Croatia commit between 2,000 and 2,000 and 400 damages. In Slovenia, which has vehicles such as Croatia, slightly less clearly such unsecured vehicles do 474 damages and in Germany, which has 48.5 million vehicles of unsecured vehicles do 525 damages. What's he saying? Poverty also has a price to mention accidentally, and I am not an agent of some insurance company that loses around 27 million kunas annually due to unsecured vehicles, Circ. 180 million kunas, and for unpaid premiums when they pay for the damages of another 30 million kunas. The third reason I see it is that I see death on our roads and I know that maybe that's why a lot of people are going to attack me in the long hours of our disco bars, nightclubs, clubs and so forth. In my opinion, it's time for the law, and at the state level, to determine the maximum duration of these disco clubs and so on. If the state can ban what I think is funny, like working on Sundays in stores, then the state can ban the operation of the joints after three hours. Let young people learn to go out again at 9:00 or 10:00, not half the night or half the night and 30 and have the police control the drivers outside those bars on Saturday or Sunday mornings as if they were glad. Those days are the most tragic. Then let the police work and the people who need a car because they work with it, let them leave. A proposal for these fines that are all with a list of 300, 400, 1,000 percent I think it's too bold for gentlemen. Okay, someone's gonna say so far there's been no punishment of up to 500 kuna. Right, but this proposal is just dragonish. The alcoholic bicycle driver, the volume pays 500 to 1,000 kuna, for the 500 kuna belt, for parking wrong 300 to 500 kuna, if you do not have the light of 300 kuna, 0.1 promil alcohol is what the cardiologist recommends after heart surgery that you must drink 2 dcl of black wine 500 to 500 kuna each day. Well, that's just crazy. I know the one who gets the kid hurt because someone's out of speed. There's no punishment that can mourn him, there's no one to comfort that parent, but it's always gentlemen and crimes for which prison sentences are prescribed for two, three, or more years. But also keep in mind that this man who is going to serve three years in prison because of what happened to him, is not a criminal, is not a bandit, etc., but perhaps most often a model member of a society who has a child who has to be cared for as well. Therefore, be careful with the fines whenever it comes to criminal law, whether it's a violation, whether it's a road safety issue. Alcohol. Did someone with 0.6 pass the drunk, is he drunk, etc.? Did anyone with 0.7 pass a drunk? That's probably because our legislator says so because he has set a limit of 0.5 permeations. But in one Swiss country that could be our role model for a lot of things, a man is drunk with those 0.8%. It's the same for England, maybe in Switzerland the last year has changed, maybe. Well, that's the same for England, same for the Netherlands, same for Ireland. So by 0.6 you will lose your license in Croatia, but in Switzerland it is not a delict. So I believe that a single dose of understanding simply here must be present because mass cannot be served without a cup. However, what our legislator is proposing now is a 0.0 spill in blood. He likes to call it zero tolerance now. That may be the zero point of reason when Croatia is Wednesday. Just because we're all gonna get sober under this law doesn't mean that this bill is simply... So it'll close up, say, on Sunday all the sharps in Istria, it'll cut the business lunches, it'll feel the inn, maybe it'll feel the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's the best example of gasoline. The higher the fuel growth this year, the lower the cost of excise duties was collected by the state because people were less driven. I agree that penalties can limit speed, but only naive thinks that the penalties will be such and without the arrangements of the road, limit the work of disco clubs in Croatia will be fewer deaths. I have even read somewhere that in Bulgaria and El Salvador drunk drivers who cause a crime can be sentenced to death by shooting. Now we might think that through such an example, we could introduce him. The impact on alcohol accidents is 7%. That's the information the minister presented this morning. So 93% are some other reasons, and unlike the SDP, as Mr. Lucin said, who can accept 0.0 prominences, IDS cannot simply accept that proposal. In Germany, let's get the police first to show the drunk driver that he wasn't capable of driving a vehicle and then shut him out of traffic, which is another extreme. It is in Croatia that a million people are killed by 143 people, while in so often mentioned in Great Britain, a million people are killed by 60 people. And they have 0.8 promil, we had 0.5. I claim that such a situation in Croatia is 50% due to roads. Another example is Belgium. In Belgium, also a country that can be a role model for all and for Croatia per million inhabitants of 145 people, means more than in Croatia. Or in Luxemburg, and everyone would love to live like in Luxemburg on a million inhabitants of 159 of them again more than in Croatia. In Greece, as many as 173 people, again more than in Croatia live on the road, die on roads and in the country of the river, Portugal as many as 184. We who work, say 70,000 kilometers a year by car, are very interested in getting the situation settled on the road, but not by simply yelling at the drivers of the skin. I am for rigorous measures, but not to lose every measure. Because the average driver in my court isn't basically a pathological killer who needs to be punished for a long time in prison, deprived of his driver's license and so forth. So you just have to find some measure. Only then will our law make sense. If German legislation is lighter than Croatia, it does not mean that German legislation is less effective. If the UK said, treats or tolerates those 0.8 spills in the blood and on the other hand they have 60 dead per 1 million inhabitants and Croatia even 143 means 2.5 times more maybe they found some other motif of these traffic relations and I said, I quoted the minister who mentioned that alcohol is 7% of the accident in Croatia, so now someone doesn't think that I'm advocating that everyone can drive drunk on the roads. Now, where it should be rigorous, it's drugs. Croatia must introduce drug tests in my court, I said mandatory, but not only in traffic, but also in schools from 5th grade to final stages of education and children or those young people must be subject to it. How much is it to cost? Drugs simply take such a measure that every year the number of users doubles. And that's where I give the police priority. Let the people be at peace at three o'clock with their cars back from work, let them declare war on drugs because that evil doesn't only happen to others, maybe to our children who are this small, can tomorrow... It would even be for these drivers to be 21 years old, up to 24 years old, not to consume a glass of alcohol, means 0.0 promila, because their lives are most feared by parents who won't mind the police and that they control it on Saturday, Sunday mornings or Fridays anyway when these people come out of their homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is one problem, a man can be 18 years old, let's say theoretically be president of the Republic of Croatia and not drink a beer. Phone, okay. But you need to allow these conversations on headphones, you're talking about these machines here because it's not going to be a criminal part of smoking in a car that's probably as risky as the phone still hurts you with that health and for the phone you'll be charged and you know the penalty yourself. Lights. I prefer the model for them to be lit on an open road, not in a populated place. That doesn't make sense, gentlemen, even though they certainly use it to spot a vehicle on an open road. One which IDS also asks to allow for the duration of the driver's license to be 80 years. Under the current law, 65 years later, those proposals were to be followed. This proposal proposes a good solution, which should be said for 75 years. However, bearing in mind that pensioners are the safest drivers, that the least damage works in traffic, that they simply don't go out on Saturdays or Sundays, I don't know, at night outside, that our neighbouring countries of Slovenia, etc., know the model 80 years might be good to rewrite that model into our Breaking Code. If we're rational, I think we can take this advice. There were good examples, for example. and in Pula the city car was driving for 25 kuna, mostly young people to houses, homes, taxi drivers rebelled, drove them off the roads so that they were deprived of competition but parents would certainly give their young, these people, 20, 25 kunas so that someone could bring them home safely at 3, 4 or 5 in the morning. Test license, do you give it to a young driver, e.g. Let's say from 18 and even 21 years old that he can't do more than x violations during that period. In Italy, if I'm not mistaken, licenses are given to young people and girls of 17 years of age, in America even before, I also see that there are no rules. People gentlemen are also killed because of the less effective emergency aid in America even before. I also see that there are no rules. The men of the gentlemen are also killed because of the less effective emergency. That's what Pero Kovacevic was talking about. I read somewhere like he also mentioned that we will have to buy new first aid boxes which, since nothing in Croatia is produced, will have to be imported from abroad in which I see some trade with some in politics and in that branch instead of perhaps buying 10 or 50 ambulances for this money. Finally, someone said that in Croatia it may be easier to change the Constitution than this Transport Safety Act but I disagree, but I agree that it is an interest for this point because we all just drive very large both in the assembly and outside this assembly. But the easiest thing to do is threaten the punishments. And sometimes when it doesn't go differently, it also needs to be punished. However, Croatia is waiting for a lot of other work. You need to arrange that ambulance, you need to edit the roads, you need to edit the standard or you need to increase that people can register their car so they can buy new, new tires. In Croatia, I said 160,000 vehicles that are not secure on our roads. In Croatia, it is necessary to arrange how long disco clubs will be working and these drug tests should be introduced. I'm against absolutely 0.0, and if that's proposed, the IDS won't support it. But where there's another problem and what I fear most or IDS most about this 0.0. Due to the handling of insurance houses which will thus adjust insurance that in case you have 0.1 prominence you will be in a situation that you have to settle for yourself and other damages. Let's not play with that. Let us not play simply with this provision when we know that in Croatia 90 thousand a year we have these small, small collisions. As small as possible, as large as possible. Let's not give insurance houses such an opportunity. Mr. Lesar suggested that the congregations, the districts of Istria, the assembly of the county pardons, do not debate in these provisions in Article 5. We propose at the IDS Club that future headships do so and agree with all those who suggest going to a second reading with this legislative proposal. The later it takes effect, the less damage it will be to the citizens. Although, clearly, something needs to be done to change, change the situation, the state of transport. All in all, I really ask you that because of your relationship with the insurance companies, first of all because of this relationship, you give up this 0.0 change.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17770	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. He's the first representative of Peru. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17771	Thank you. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague of Cain that the state should ban disco clubs from working until early morning because there are other methods. For example, there's a famous disco club in Medulin that I won't mention where young people were going on a mass weekend and I have to say, unfortunately, they died on their way back. And faced with the position of the youth forum of the SDP City Committee, Pula proposed the introduction of free-of-charge nightlines on the basis of the survey. Last weekend they were introduced for the first time and 114 young people used those two lines from Pula for Medulin both back and on, and thus can also prevent death on the road when it comes to young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17772	.....the speaker is subsequently involved, counsel. Representative Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17773	Two are incorrect allegations. It's the first one Mr. Cain has said that at 18 years of age, if this bill is accepted, you'll be able to be president of the state, you won't be able to have a beer. The president's gonna be able to have a beer, but he can't drive when he's had a beer. So no one's defending your beer pie just can't drive, but it's not a problem for the presidents anyway. They have drivers. It's another thing. My colleague Caine said that the current law says that you're an alcoholic with 0.6, a drunk. No, I don't. That's not what the law tells you. It tells you that you can't drive a car with 0.6%, and it doesn't tell you that you're a drunk, but that you can't drive a car. And this is that people won't be able to pay the fines. 300 kuna if it doesn't turn on the lights. Let him light the light so he won't have to pay 300 kuna. I mean it's, it's very simple to solve. No, it doesn't break the law. I, like, support 0.0 even though I'm a member of Mediterranean culture and I can't imagine lunch without wine, but then I won't drive. And the second in the first six months of this year, an entire class was killed on Croatian roads. Murdered. It's not about murderers, who kills you on purpose and so forth, but it's all the same for a lost life. That's why, God, since we've never been able to do anything else before, I am for rigorous punishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17774	Thank you very much. Touching style. Ivana Sučec-Thrakoštanec please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17775	Yeah. I'm correcting my colleague Cain's incorrect claim that a zero rate means that we have to stop drinking at all, so it's not true. It is only true that if we drink no matter how much tolerance we will be, 0, 0, 0, 3 or 0,5 proms we will have to behave more responsibly in traffic regardless of whether it was driving a car or moving like a pedestrian. So we're going to have to organize a different transport movement, so we're going to use probably more public transport. Possible other models and sober colleagues, so we'll have one to sacrifice for the whole society. So I think that this article is about us all acting more responsibly together in transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17776	Thank you very much, colleague. There you go, buddy Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17777	Well, my colleague Cain made more false allegations. In fact, all those guilty allegations stem from one of his thesis, which is that it is normal for traffic participants to commit a violation. And that's the problem. That's what it came from... are the wrong data, let's say that in Germany are actually much lighter penalties which are incorrect. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are a number of others, so I don't fix them now, about the rates in certain countries and so on and so on. I think we should basically start from no one being involved in traffic with the intention of committing a violation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17778	Thank you very much. None of the MPs are anymore. Minister Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17779	Thank you very much to fellow MPs who have most of my remarks, answers to, to Mr Cain's remarks already answered. This Law is not only restrictive. He predicts education in transport from primary schools. He also foresees punishment for warning. Twice a year a police officer can warn a man of some kind of offense that he has committed to not doing it anymore. And I also think that no one can say that now, it's psychosis or hysteria of car accidents. They're our daily lives, and no one can be immune to what's really happening. That the law is inconclusive is not true. He is also available in Austria, Slovenia, and Germany. When we go there, we all see how much it says on the sign. If it says 30, we drive 30. If it says 60, we drive 60. Just because the fines there are rigorous and ten are, ten times as big as the ones we pay, which we now predict by this law. So that's why people stick to regulations and, and work. Of course everything else that could be the cause of the car crash should be done, so it is done and prepared, the police system that will be able to spot every cop on the road, see if the vehicle is registered or not, and as far as the alcohol is concerned, I agree with the representatives who said: “We, we propose and when you drink you do not drive and when you drive do not drink.” Yes, now it was treated 5.0 means 0.5 prominence was treated as a sober state. And that's why it wasn't treated like it was the cause of a car accident. And those were up to 0.5 percent. And I'm telling you as a doctor that alcohol and up to 0.5 increases the sense of security of courage and that very often it's not the reason that he's got 0.5, but then he presses on the gas and drives 120 or 140. When he's had a few glasses of wine, each of us has another tolerance for alcohol. Each of us has another tolerance. And then he ran to a place where he couldn't run and he ran over a lot of lines. Then it is recorded as a cause means high speed or irregular flow and perhaps just those 0.5 in the blood was the reason that eon did it at a certain point. Besides, when we all say what we say in Zagorje and in Dalmatia starts, then a gemist and a beer won't have anything to do with it, it's less than 0.5. But we all know our customs that after one gemist comes another and the polishes of one beer comes another beer. And that's why you're always thinking that it won't be 0.5 drinks a little too much and it'll be over 0.5 and a large portion of those people unregistered under police control driving and causing car accidents. As far as drugs are concerned, from 636 tests in 24% the drug was found these are the first tests that were done, it's a huge number, and we think that there is a challenging and certainly zero tolerance for both alcohol and drugs is a very important assumption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17780	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. We have three corrections to the minister's statement. Agent Cain, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17781	Well, it's not bad to compare to the world or Austria. But one Austria has incomparably bigger and wages not only penalties but in Croatia. They have an incomparably better road. And finally, the best data that tells us that Croatia is here somewhere on average with injured persons is the data of one Belgium, one Greece, one Portugal, and Luxembourg and so on. So we're here on average.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17782	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is representative Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17783	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister said in connection with the medical point of view that 0.5% of prominence can affect either a drop in concentration or an overdose of courage. Of course, these medical concepts are likely to know those in Switzerland, England, Ireland and other countries of Europe where such an attitude has remained despite probably very significant research and also medically. Therefore, the profession is obviously not clear to the end, i.e. if we want to lead most of Europe's civilised and cultural countries, then the truth is on this other side.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17784	Thank you very much. Representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17785	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is not true that Mr. Minister categorically claimed that the law would be applicable. The law will not be applicable because the system needs to be strengthened. We're in the budget here yesterday, the Sui seized funds for a mistrial, all the funds for the regulation of a high criminal court that has here a dominant absolutely dominant role in the repression. And what effective repression will be, then, prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17786	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I think we can move on. On behalf of the Klub of the Croatian Peasant Party, we have registered two representatives of colleagues Vresk and a colleague of Harami. Here you go, fellow Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17787	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. In the first part, I will talk about this law and in the rest of the part, my colleague Harami and colleague Pecek will talk more about the breaking law or fellow Pecek in the overall state of our road. So I've been in these four years maybe a little more awkward position, so I've had to defend from these benches from the position of the government in two readings the same law that unfortunately hasn't been passed. Today, however, I am in a slightly easier position, which doesn't mean I feel less responsible, because this is a really important law, and we have to bring it in. The situation on our roads is as it is and there's something to do and it's good that it's been approached by making new and whole law, but it's also good to see that it has to change the breaking law. But there's something to be said. I, when discussing criminal law, suggested to the Government to amend and punish the law in that sense because the crimes that we have prescribed for those most severe forms of heavy delicacies on traffic must be prescribed by the legislator as new offences. The situation in our criminal law does not suit the need. It is also clear that there was a need to intervene more in the law of violation, I find this necessary for this law, but the fact is that we must intervene in the law of law. And finally let's go back to this law. Unfortunately, however, the number of people does not grow, but the number of drivers increases and the number of personal cars increases. The condition of the road is what it is and the age of the rolling stock is known for itself. It was not a good measure and it was the Croatian Peasants' Party club and warned, last week that the introduction of excise duties on new cars the condition of our fleet does not satisfy namely I do not know if anyone in the Republic was involved in researching the impact of the age of the rolling stock on road casualties but I think it is safe not well. In fact, even when we wrote an earlier law on the draft of the law, several ministries participated. The Ministry of Interior Affairs, then Ministry of Education and Sports, Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations and we used this here area of age and knowledge that our universities have, above all, the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. We used the knowledge that the employees of the Croatian Autoclub Center for Vehicles and ect have. It was hard to write the drafts of that regulation because it is indeed an epropise that tangs a lot of people. I will intertwine many interests and find it difficult to find a good measure. It has always been thought that the aim of this law must be to combine that repression of a good reprisal measure but also to God and to prevent it. It seems to me that this law was struck in that repressive part, and that it was indeed necessary to increase the sentence. However, between the lesser and the greater punishments, we forget the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, that an even more important purpose is to punish individualizations of penalties. It is the true purpose of punishment. The sentence cannot only have a general purpose of that general prevention but must be individualised. In fact, when we lived in the old age, you remember at some pay average you could go through fixed sentences and the penalties really struck us equally. Now you have this situation that the penalty of several hundred kunas is too great for someone and the fines of several thousand kunas too small. I don't think that's where we hit it. The sentence is not individualized. Sasma is whether she's big or she's small, she has to be ID'd. Of course the government here also had a limit on the law on violations. There's something I have to say about what's so unpopular about what's called alcohol. It is not intended to prohibit drinking, the purpose is to disable anyone, to prohibit any motor vehicle management when they are unable to manage it. Is it because of the influence of drugs, alcohol is all one thing. Of course, the legislator decides that he will prescribe those standards, which is a quantity of drugs, of course, nothing or alcohol, which will be that limiting factor, or what he will say, prohibits him from driving a motor vehicle in road traffic and, of course, punishes him. What was not well done in this law, and therefore perhaps it would have been good if this law had gone into two readings, these are indeed certain provisions that need to be corrected, first of all I mean setting the ceiling, I mean first of all Article 53(3) fines of at least 3,000 kuna, there is no penalty limit. Then we have article 174, paragraph 4, with a fine of at least 5,000 kuna. We have the same case in Article 180(6) with a fine of at least 5,000 kuna, there is no ceiling. We have the same case in Article 229(6) and (7). Of course, the upper limit of penalties in this case is the limit of criminal penalties, but it is also good to prescribe that fine, i.e. its upper limit, the upper limit. The issue of constitutionality of certain provisions of this law and the constitutionality of Article 5 is raised. Violent law. I will quote to you, ladies and gentlemen, Article 5 which reads: Caution measures can also be imposed by the police under the provisions of this law, and the measure of withdrawal of the driver's license within 30 days in a way prescribed by a special law means that this law, by the end of that period, the police may issue an infringement order or submit a request for the initiation of a infringement procedure. I really think it's 30 days too long. If the time limit of three days is too short, then it may have been necessary to find a good measure and to set an appropriate time limit in which a person is physically prevented not in a way to take away his car but rather to take away his permit on the basis of which he can, or prove that he is allowed to drive the car until the condition that that driver’s license has been withdrawn has passed, but that deadline cannot really be 30 days. Another sentence of the same article: By the end of that deadline, the police may. The word: "can" seems a little strange to me. Not "can." It can't stand "can" but "must." I can, which means "can," I have to admit, I don't get it. And that comes to a painful question from this law. Article 221 applies, of course, to young drivers, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, paragraph 4 and paragraph 5. We all want to influence as much as anyone we can as Parliamentarians, the government, of course, has such a good desire, that as few people get hurt, but we have to stick to the letters of the Constitution. These provisions seem to be borderline constitutionality or unconstitutional, but I leave it to the government. The HSS will in any case support this bill although it suggested the government to go in two readings, we made a better regulation, however, and if it stays as my party will support this law. And in the end, I'm going to tell you what might have been said at the beginning, which is very important. Road safety is not improved only through repressive measures. The United Nations during last year, and in May and November, two resolutions, the one under regular number 57 and the one under regular number 58, I will also tell you the names of those resolutions. These are resolutions to which the United Nations Member States must take appropriate measures to prevent road injuries. It's about prevention, it's about measures, it's about appropriate measures. It's not just repression, although I agree it has to be repression, but not just repression. What is more, in the end, important to mention only that. I suggest to the government that it no longer says that law enforcement will not require the provision of money. It will be of course, but never matter, primarily, that it will be necessary to ensure and how much of these resources will be but it is important to point out that this is a human goal and that it is good and should not be ashamed to write that such funds will be necessary. I would just like to say that it is wise to bring these laws to the House of Representatives by consensus. It's smart to bring them in by consensus. This suggests more that perhaps this law should have been passed quickly, but in two readings. Of course, react quickly, but in two readings. It would give both us and the government a chance to fix this text. It would give it an opportunity and Mr. Josipovic is right when with those delicacies it is one mistake I ask you to fix it, which is left in the text of the law, prescribed the responsibility of the craftsman for setting it seems to me to be the law. What was meant to say is that the legal persons responsible for the job are responding. It's obviously a mistake that you're going to fix or it's going to fix the lecture service, but we don't need to get into these situations. After all, I will repeat, the Croatian Peasant Party Club has estimated that this law should be supported and that there really should be something to be done with all these remarks that I have just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17788	Thank you very much, colleague Vresk. A colleague of Harami's. The minister, usually speaking for two representatives on behalf of the club, then the minister is manifested as the club's position. Here's a colleague of Harami's. Also, my colleague, it's just divided into two parts and then you're talking to each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17789	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Law on Infringements will exclusively focus on the law on the violations that are ahead of us, in line with the adoption of the new Road Safety Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on violations so that the upper limit for natural persons from 10 thousand kuna rises to 15 thousand kuna while the lower limit of 300 kuna remains unchanged, and for legal persons the lower limit of 2 thousand kuna rises to 5 thousand kuna and the upper limit from 100 thousand kuna to 500 thousand kuna. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on infringements is fixed as a penalty which can be imposed by the administrative authority which conducts the infringement procedure on an amount which must be precisely established so that it can be laid down on an official basis at the place where the offence is committed. This Regulation shall enter into The law has also been added to the new paragraph 4 which provides that certain infringements may require mandatory application of a protection measure for motor vehicle management until the former Article 4 becomes Article 5, which is amended in the direction that the sum of negative points for traffic offences can lead to withdrawal of the driver’s licence, which also means the safeguard measure of termination of the driver’s licence. Finally, in Article 138(4), paragraph 4 is amended, paragraph 4 is amended in the right of the police to impose precautionary measures and thus to withdraw the driving licence for a period of 30 days, which has been three days. Within that time limit, the police may issue a criminal order or file a request for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. The cause of these proposed changes as well as the new Road Safety Act lies in a large number of road accidents with severe consequences on roads in the Republic of Croatia. Since the beginning of this year, around 350 people have been killed in traffic accidents, largely caused by non-compliance with current road safety regulations and the Road Safety Act. Most fatal accidents occurred as a result of alcohol - driven driving and reckless driving. A large number of drivers especially younger people on the road don't respect anyone or anything. For such drivers, nothing represents a life that threatens others and at least the regulations that violate them. In addition to everything prescribed by the new Road Safety Act, the introduction of much more severe sanctions in the Infringement Act is necessary to change this and to change the way the driver thinks about it. The question is why and why Croatian drivers come to the roads of neighbouring countries, Slovenia, Hungary, and even a little further Austria, they drive with much more attention and generally comply with the rules. The answer is clear. In these countries, sanctions against drivers who violate traffic regulations are much more severe and the police of those countries have more powers that are strictly applied. The drivers from these countries are not significantly different from the drivers in Croatia in their heads, but rather they are simply trained to behave differently with strict sanctions and strict application of them. As an example which, truth be told, is not a driver's license, but shows how mentality is changing, and how a culture of certain behavior is created, I will say that in England 10 years ago, an anachronous law was abolished by the English Parliament, which prescribed that anyone caught in pushing when entering a tram with a horse's grip be flogged with 12 punches. The Law was from the second half of the 19th century and was in effect for over 100 years. I do not wish to call on these calls that we may have missed such a similar regulation in Croatia, but I would like to point out that sharp sanctions can achieve a preventive purpose and we at the HSS Club are confident that this will contribute with time to change the behaviour of drivers on our roads. Although, as I said, we at the HSS Club welcome the tightening of sanctions provided for by these amendments and additions to the Law, we believe that we should immediately approach the creation of a new, whole Law on Violations, which would equally impose sanctions for violations of all kinds, not just traffic. And today, the minister said that accession is being prepared for a new law, which we welcome. As for increasing the withdrawal of the driver's license from 3 days to 30 days, we join those who believe this is questionable from the point of view of greater depression towards the perpetrators of the most serious traffic offences and that it is more focused on police work. It is also questionable that the time of withdrawal of the driver's licence due to the duration of the infringement procedure may be extended to a much longer period, which is in breach of the Constitution protected citizens' rights. Nevertheless, the HSS Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Violations with the proposal to take account of the new full law on violations of the doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17790	Thank you very much, colleague. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17791	Yes, counterpart Vresk said, quote, "the sentence is not individualised". So, and the offense begins and punishes the individual, person, name and name for it. So the punishment was individualized, however, Mr. Vresk brought this into line with the amount of punishment towards, in line with his personal incomes. So I ask you, what absurdity would it lead to to impose penalties against someone's income, and how could that possibly be applied in the first place? So the only possible linear amount of punishment is what needs to be supported. Fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17792	Thank you very much, colleague. Minister Mlinaric, please. You gave up, okay. I'm supposed to be in line right now on behalf of the club, but I don't have a replacement. That's why I'm saying it, I know that some of them keep records of the registered clubs, so now the Retirement Club. Here you go. How did you agree, in what order? You first, go ahead. Dragutin Pucklesha.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17793	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament. The Croatian Retired Party Club also discussed the proposal for this law and I would concentrate in this section on the section of the Law relating to Articles 199 and 222. In fact, we did a small survey among our members. It's not a representative sample, but it's indicative, in the sense that we've heard some answers, that you just don't have to accept this percentage of 0.0 alcohol in your blood. And secondly, that these penalties are not, the level of penalties is not appropriate for the level of remuneration of citizens at all, and especially for these categories of pensioners. Furthermore, there are a lot of people in our ranks who have been working on traffic safety regulations until yesterday, so we have consulted them a little and we have received very interesting data, but we are not able to pass it on to you here, so perhaps we will sum up what we as a club are going to define ourselves for. First of all, we don't think this percentage of 0.0 should stay. It should be changed because there is a real danger that in the consumption of certain nutrients that do not contain alcoholic substances, they may occur during the permentation and then, according to the assessment of traffic operators, these traffic regulations could create very serious problems in the application of these regulations and there could also be different ways of addressing the competent authorities to correct it. It would be burdensome, therefore, for those organs that will do so, and for the bodies that need to express measures. Furthermore, they would particularly apostrophe the question of the level of punishment for cyclists. Look, it's the people who ride those bikes today, so you're blinking from morning to night like a sponge you can't suck 100 kuna out of it. I mean, there's also gonna be big problems, and we think that might be a little bit better. So much for Article 199, and now you'd say something about Article 222. In this article, we suggest that that 75 number be replaced by 80, for one simple reason that there is no danger that our pensioners, or older people, are sitting behind the wheel if they are not able to drive, they decide for themselves, and I have been very much in contact with such people and they are very aware and responsible. They are also very aware of their obligations to society and state and are therefore also responsible in this segment. In addition, we know that in European countries, there is also a border there somewhere, so 80 years old. I wouldn't mention the land where it's all, you know that as well. It's boundless somewhere. Therefore, if we are going to Europe we should go to Europe in this part of Europe, rather than go back to the Balkans where it is different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17794	I thank Mr. Representative. Now the second part has Mr. Hrelja's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17795	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, members of the ministry and the government, colleagues and colleagues. I appreciate the proposal's efforts to create a prerequisite for the new Road Safety Act for improving traffic safety. I purposely say and underline the pre-conditions because it would indeed be politically irresponsible to convince our voters, citizens of Croatia that the law itself, because of the rigorous penalties and measures prescribed by it, will introduce order on modern lost places or roads. This Law only provides a legal framework for the implementation in the field of transport security of a whole range of techniques of pedagogical measures, sanctions, education and training in order to improve the level of security. So this Law begins a big job that will surely have to undergo a lot of changes in walking because some measures will prove insufficiently effective and some counterproductive for this reason and the reasons why, at the beginning of the story, I want to make a contribution to the quality of this Law. I want to concentrate on a few key positions. In my profession for all chemical pests for eight-hour exposures that occur in the process of work, there is a category of maximum concentration that is not harmful to human health and normal functioning of the organism. I don't see a valid reason to use a different logic in traffic security because now that limit was set at 0.5 grams per kilogram. Given our temperament and mentality, the culture and the tradition of drinking, I consider it exaggerating to prove by Article 199(5) that we are greater believers than the Pope. Unfortunately, I cannot accept that punishment and treatment are left to the subjective assessment of the official because of this assessment in the subsequent procedure of determining responsibility for damages, we can from the previous participant in the violation of the law make the offender or one who suffers material damage on the basis of the insurance against general responsibility and the helmet of insurance. So I suggest that maximum concentration remains 0.5 grams per kilogram or some lower scientificly proven quantity because mathematically 0.0 means nothing, it's an empty set that contains nothing and nothing starts from 0. As far as the level of penalties provided for individual offences is concerned, I believe that they are too high or inappropriate for the social situation in Croatia. I'm no supporter of the theory that people understand and respect rules as many as someone hits them on the wallet. This approach produces immediate adaptation to new conditions and only in the case of a small number of drivers a conscious change in behaviour. This certainly encourages the majority of drivers to fake solidarity on the road a kind of collective game of outsmarting traffic police with various forms of signalling and warning other traffic participants on the presence of police on a particular section of the road. Furthermore, in the part of the driver, fear of such a great punishment can produce effects of a panic reaction, in the presence of traffic police. I'm asking here if it's better to pay 100 kuna for what we've been paying for now because I wasn't tied up or in the process of driving at 100 km/h to tie myself up with a seat belt because my driver from the opposite direction signals the presence of a traffic police force and now I've got a fine of 500 kuna. How many drivers are going to risk it, I'm asking the promoter to try to put himself in this position. I would like to point out to the promoter the shortcomings in the interpretation of Articles 197 and 198 as these formulations do not specify the obligation of the physician to give an oral and written warning to the driver on the ban on driving when prescribing a specific medicinal product with a history of treatment, which is therefore prohibited from driving for whose time of taking. The formulation of these provisions indicates only the responsibility of the driver and its subjective assessment whether to follow the doctor’s instructions or not. Proveing the circumstances that are punishable is impossible and the problem is much bigger than it looks at first sight. We're driven by addicts, driven by people with diagnosis, people who don't know they're sick and some personal experience of diabetes, there's a sense of tiredness and clonulity, driven by people with psychotraumas of experienced collisions, people who have been unconscious and who haven't been found to have permanent consequences for psycho motor skills, and in this part I appeal to the kind of networking of traffic police with family doctors in order to reduce this risk. Finally, at the end of the day, the provision of Article 221(4), which is subject to the supervision of a person over 25 years of age, is unacceptable, which is not a guarantee that this person will affect the driver but is an exclusive issue of form and will, as such, cause the spite and revolt of young drivers to be counted on as well. So the provision isn't life and as such it's difficult to implement, so it's better that the proposer wipes it out of the law himself. The feeling of false security, I refer only to a part of the minister's exposure increases both the safety belt and the servo steering wheel and the ABS brakes, and two strong coffees and not only 0.5% of the alcohol in the blood, and the most real safety contributes to experience, skills, the detection of road hazards, the identification of dangers and the adjustment of road conditions, so it should have miles below it and I speak from personal experience because I personally passed or transported about a million kilometers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17796	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Silvan Hrelja. Now, on behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, the distinguished representative and vice-president, Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17797	Thank you, dear colleague vice president, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although this Law bears the designation E, which is a alignment with European Union legislation, so it is justified to adopt a little bit of an emergency procedure, it is certain that the reason we all mentioned is that the other one, which is black statistics in transport, so we all repeat the numbers of 11 thousand 500 killed by loneliness, which is indeed a frightening figure because it is dangerously approaching the number of people killed in the Homeland War, and so is the black figure of the deceased children who are making up a whole class just this year. Because of such data, it is certain that one more serious analysis is required, one more serious intervention in the law but also in sublegal acts. We at the HSLS DC Club hold that it would be good if this law with these serious analyses had been through two readings after all. To pass this law quickly, in an emergency procedure, it will certainly cause a number of oversights and the law will be found again in the procedure only this time will fix it. I know that we can say that these worrying dimensions of the increase in accidents have been observed in the past government, that we have also had reading, one reading of this Law and never another reading has arrived before the MPs, however, this really shouldn't be an explanation of the merger of one and another reading. We are a country which is a tourist but also a transit country resulting in additional increased traffic, which is unfortunately attended by unbridled young drivers who drive powerful cars and engines, but also by overworked tourists who come from quite distant countries and drivers of foreign commercial vehicles. It is therefore necessary to have a quality Transport Safety Act but also quality control over its implementation. Of course education is necessary, of course it is good, and of course it cannot be a stronger and stronger foothold in this law. In this part where I mentioned commercial vehicles on our roads and sides, but we also keep these tired drivers that we really need to comply with the Law on road transport, especially this 4th article, item 6 where the necessary education of a large number of people on the roads, who actually do not know enough about the burden. This is not known by cargo schedules, cargo insurance, cargo properties, forces operating in turns and so on, and often in the conversation exactly with carriers I have learned one piece of information that is good to repeat here. And this is that motor vehicles C and E categories, often run by people who really have a driver's license, but because of the avoidance of the Road Transport Act, they are often registered as transport workers with their employers. And they don't have enough education about the work they do. So that's why we have heavy car accidents often with many dead and unhappy, but also environmental pollution caused by heavy vehicle drivers with insufficient knowledge and these uneducated drivers carrying dangerous substances are really a problem. There should be very clear intervention in the law to determine who these drivers are. Whether they must have the necessary secondary education or some additional education to do the job. This drug testing, I think we can commend it with consensus. The data presented by the minister on nearly one quarter of the positive findings are certainly data that concerns, but the criteria for issuing a medical opinion on the mental and physical capacity of the candidate for driver should be strengthened. However, there are parts of the law, it may be necessary to see if they can be resolved by some other laws. And as far as young drivers are concerned, which are often caused by car accidents, I will not mention Makarska again, which probably none of us have forgotten. And that's that there are young people on our roads who run powerful cars without a driver's license. What about sanctioning their parents and others? There we would indeed be for a strict variant, even for a permanent ban on driving a prison sentence, of course it can't be applied or it wouldn't be logical to refer to serious violations, it's logical that it actually refers to harder rather than to those who just parking improperly. We're talking a lot about 0.5% today. I believe we'll all agree, and it's interesting why we're talking so much in the House about this information, I'm talking about it and the public, and happiness may be from some other parts of the law. It seems to me that there are quite a number of MPs and support from the public to reconsider the border so far precisely because of the fact that only 7% of traffic accidents are caused by alcohol. But colleagues and colleagues 7% of 11.5 thousand people are a huge number. And there is indeed a wise and serious decision to make. We hold that the zeroth rate as we call it today would be quite adequate when it comes to young drivers. They simply need to be taught that driving is a responsible job. They, perhaps even 21 years old, 23, need to consult the profession of another species, not just politics. But I'm listening today about how we're worried about 0.5% and we're strict here, so it seems like it's actually going to be best for those who have drivers. Or you'll draw a match, I agree. Whoever drives, don't drink. But colleagues and colleagues aren't the most serious we're talking about, because of immunity, because we get blinked and wished for a happy trip, there were brave colleagues and colleagues who said here that no one had ever stopped them, even warned about not being connected on the road. So obviously some benefits we have. Strong, hard to be that towards young people, but 0.5 really consider it one more time. So what remains unresolved with this law is that with families that tolerate this behavior of young people, they give the vehicle to children below the age line or also do not educate what it means to drive under alcohol. It would be good to consider what this will mean in the tourist season when every few kilometers we will have officers with very stretching possibilities of determining the penalty and with changes that my colleague Lucin seems to have made to me, from tomorrow they are worth a new tariff. And thirdly, I believe it's necessary to say. We're all proud of our highways and the current government and the former, we rightly consider it a high score of our policy. However, building exactly such highways, gentlemen, I know right in the area of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County about 70% of other roads were destroyed by the construction of the bypass. What's the safety of roads like that? So the law is missing. It would've been good if he'd gone in two readings and had a public debate, but if a law like this could save one life, that's enough reason to raise a hand for him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17798	Thank you. Notice, Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture Mr. Zeljko Pavlic convened a meeting of the Committee at 13:30 in Hall 202. And now he has a word on behalf of Club Libre Mr. Zeljko. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is not true what counterpart Djurdja Adlesic said, that parliamentary representatives have immunity. Neither parliamentary representatives nor state officials have immunity as to the offences committed, nor are they allowed to be called upon because it would be abuse. So there is no immunity to criminal liability of any state official.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17800	Thank you very much. I can't answer from here. Representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17801	Thank you very much. Well, it's just for the public. In the last term, there was not one reading and only the first reading of the bill of amendments and the addition of the Road Safety Act, but two. So the government had a similar proposal and then went to the Parliament. However, through two readings in the Croatian Parliament there was no political will. In fact, none of the clubs were meant to increase drastic penalties. I'm glad to see you today, but it still took some time to grow awareness of the need for a little stronger and greater punishment to be introduced into legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17802	Thanks a lot, buddy. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17803	Here's just two sentences. Also, that's exactly what I was going to say, that the Law is similar which, all the remarks were made, useful that those two previous readings were in this law. And one of my men snuck up, and in my exposure to the past one mistake of 636 young drug drivers tested is not 26%, but 26 total. So it wouldn't be used there afterwards as, it would still be too much of a percentage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17804	Excuse me, may I ask you now which one is, this last piece of information was completely accurate and in the first presentation it was incorrect. So I was quoting your incorrect information. All right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17805	I thought it was undetected, but when it started to be quoted so as not to further quote from 636 tested 26 it was positive for drugs. [[You can't hear the speaker, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17806	It's a good thing we didn't deceive the public or you or me. It's okay. Thank you very much. We can move on. On behalf of the Club LIBRE representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17807	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen! Here, let me look back on behalf of the Libre Club on this bill. The Club LIBRE therefore supports the fundamental intention of this law to reduce the number of killed and injured on our roads that this year, as we have heard, has escalated and reached dramatic proportions. The LIBRE Club also supports the law’s intention to focus on offenders who harshly violate traffic regulations, as stated in the reasoning of the criminal policy blade. And here we welcome the intention to strengthen the penalties of those who commit traffic violations because of excessive speed, too much alcohol in the blood, especially those who repeat traffic violations. According to the above data that we have in the proposal for this law, Croatia is one of the most endangered European states for road safety. In the past ten years, there have been more deaths and injuries in traffic accidents than in the Homeland War, and more than 600 deaths are expected in the current year alone. In the first six months, more than 300 people were killed on our roads. This describes enough the weight of the problem that could cause even more trouble with the expected increase in traffic density. The road safety law stipulates that all persons directly and indirectly involved in traffic safety are responsible for the safety of traffic. Unfortunately, this is not the case in practice, so I would like to draw attention to the fact that, for example, according to the research of the Institute of Transport and the links to liability for accidents in Croatia, unconstitutionally and incorrectly is distributed. This actually limits the achievements of fairer measures and the most severe consequences are suffered by drivers and pedestrians. The systematic European research has defined three important causes of the impact of road accidents. These are the first imperfect and misbehavior of road users, drivers and pedestrians, the second tensile imperfection and failure of the vehicle, and the third technical imperfection, the failure of the transport infrastructure. Studies further showed that all three influential factors are about the same as those affecting accidents. The main problem, therefore, is that our traffic operations are aimed at drivers, unconstitutionally and unambiguously, the main responsibility for traffic accidents. Such thinking is most often the result of a desire for problems to be at least declared as simple and as fast as possible. In our opinion, this is unfair not only to traffic users but also to traffic police who are often overly burdened and misdirected. The impact of other factors in the first order of regularity of transport infrastructure and vehicles is generally underestimated and often neglected. For example, it is ignored that inadequate security is often due to insufficient quality, incomplete and unadjusted transport projects. For example, we also have fresh from our tunnels on new highways that pop up, their lids pop out so to speak for themselves from the bed and cause traffic accidents. Also, the increased number of accidents on wet roads is largely due to an unquality asphalt layer and poor drainage of roads. Drivers are often the wrong result of insufficient and unfair direct information from drivers about the dangers ahead, which warns of the lack of standards and unstandard road signalling. Danger often generates an unquality regulation of traffic in traffic networks and at intersections. Also, the safety of transport reduces the poor and unfair maintenance of the stake and traffic signalling. In addition, technical maintenance of vehicles services and technical checks are not significantly lower than in Western European countries but the general state of the rolling stock is nevertheless significantly lower. It is known that the average age of our vehicles is more than ten years ago and also a few days ago we also brought excise duties to collect new cars and thus made it difficult for people to replace old cars with new cars, etc. So these are some facts and reasons for causing insecurity in traffic that we don't think are sufficiently trained in this law. Let me draw particular attention now to one of the most important segments of transport regulation which is well defined and processed in Western European countries and is only open with this law. only some of the articles of this law, for example, Article 221. I'm talking about differentiated traffic regulations that selectively limit the permitted speed. For example, about the night and early morning hours for late and foggy times or the degree of speed-limiting of driving for young drivers with aggregate sanctioning, collecting penalties for general good speed overruns. So here I am talking about Article 211. about an article that treats the problems of young drivers that we would especially like to warn about. Just to point out that we went to Club LIBRE with our Transport Protection Act that we were just about to increase, increase the safety of young drivers. Why young drivers? Because in our opinion, they are the most endangered part of the population that is currently moving on our roads. So there's the data, for example, the most drastic data comes from 2000. There are approximately 250 thousand young drivers in Croatia, which is about 14%, and for example in 2000 similar to in other years, they are relatively much more involved in traffic accidents. So, for example, that year in the total number of car accidents, so the rape of young drivers was about 35%. They were with 35% of the participants in accidents with the deceased, they were participants with 36% in accidents with killed young drivers, and in alcohol-affected accidents they participated with 28.4%. There's got to be similar data this year. We, therefore, have now turned this law into an amendment to Article 221, because the government proposes similar solutions, so we primarily try to prevent this problem from being solved. We believe that our solution that we offer with the amendment is simpler and fairer, so here we have a request for the government to try to consider our solution so that we can really help young drivers in the right way. What exactly is this about? This amendment, therefore, to Article 221 or the new article 221, has five items. In paragraph 1, what is most important is that a driving licence is issued for a period of two years. It is also proposed by the Government but we propose it in this article of the law. We also suggest that persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this law should not manage or start driving a vehicle if there are intoxicating drugs, alcohol or if it shows signs of alcoholisation, so we have the same inside. Furthermore, the persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be obliged to mark the vehicle, this is a new, special label, young drivers spoken. So I think it's important because it's easier to control exactly the younger drivers that at random not all the vehicles stop but that if a cop sees a vehicle driving a young driver to stop it and control it. It also refers to a speed limit which is the same as Article 211 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Government's proposal. In paragraph 4, there is a speed limit, almost the same. In paragraphs 4 and 5, a period of trials is put in place, which seems to me to be not in your bill of law. Therefore, if, within those two years, the infringements referred to in Articles 2 and 3 are committed or a certain number of points are collected, the trial shall be extended by another year. In Article 5, then, if the driver is young, the driver does not comply with these obligations will need to undergo a repeat driving test. So, our article briefly, clearly, simply processes this group of young drivers and we think it would be good to adopt it in this form because it therefore has concentrated obligations, therefore, and sanctions. By contrast, the amendment proposed by the Government... much wider, we think there are a few things that are unnecessary in this article of the Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just maybe to point out what is meant by these young drivers, by categorization these are so young drivers aged 18 to 18, that all new drivers, that's right. But the data tells us that right now, let's say that the participants of the driver's exams are 70 or 80 or even 90% just young from the 18- to 24-year-olds, so we're actually talking about that group of people. So what we specifically have a comment on in Article 221 proposed by the Government. Here it is, item 3, which tells us that the driver must not drive a vehicle whose engine power exceeds 75 kilowatts, i.e. from an engine of 25 kilowatts. We think this is unnecessary, if there is a speed limit, and besides, cars that have and less than 75 kilometers can develop high speeds of 140, 150 kilometers that can be quite dangerous. And besides, traffic accidents that happen from 40 miles an hour can be deadly. Right? I mean, this is just gonna get complicated. We also disagree that, with paragraph 4, the person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may not operate a road transport vehicle in the period from 23 to 05 hours if the vehicle is not a person older than 25 years of age, etc. I think it's also incomprehensible because there wouldn't be any effect. Let me just remind you that in reading this law in the previous session, first reading was similar to one such obligation but it was left out in the second reading just as a result of the debate. So we think that this same provision is too high and that it wouldn't actually solve this problem. Now, what we also think is too high, that's where we'd actually like to ask a question to get further information from the minister. What's a drive-by center? So, what's the obligation of a safe-driving program? It's our opinion that this is too high. That what we need to develop, therefore, is that our auto-schools carry out quality of their programme that will include a safe driving programme, and we think that most of the auto-schools in our country are capable of doing so, if they do not therefore have to reach that quality within a certain time period and this safety-driving programme, then that way is actually too much if, with Article 3 of this article, it also develops and propagates prevention to all public institutions, I think it is true that this is why, not only for drivers who have to pass driver's exams but also driving vehicles that are carried out in public transport. So even professionals should go through a safe-driving program. I really don't understand why those who would professionally, who would actually have to act like that. So, I think it would be good for the Miniastar to answer us for what and why but we.../ The speaker does not understand./... against this because we think that one extra institution is being led along the Croatian Autoclub, along with the auto-schools that have 400 in Croatia, along with the Croatian Transport Safety Alliance, with schools and other institutions, we think this is really excessive. And so I ask how much it would actually cost. We know what the price of going to a car school is now and another cost certainly to those young people who are most in the process that they would not need it, but they should do so through prevention, training, therefore, especially through better quality work of the car school. As for this, our grades or the 0,0 or 0.5% bet that I don't repeat the arguments that the previous clubs were saying. We are to leave a zero-limit tolerance limit of 0.5% because we believe that lowering that limit to 0.0% would actually increase both business and traffic police and our courts and that there would actually be a blockade and traffic police and courts. The question of whether in today's circumstances they could take over all these, all those cases that could happen to them especially now at the beginning when people wouldn't be used to the new provisions of the law yet. And some again talk about this modern 0.08% of small doors being led by prohibition in Croatia. We would therefore welcome the adoption, i.e. the proposal for Article 3 which speaks in fact about prevention at all levels from national authorities, the bodies of units of local, regional, regional self-government, legal and natural persons and persons involved in transport shall be gone. They're in debt, etc. However, they would suggest that since legal, physical individuals are mentioned explicitly and parents, they should be explicitly there. Thus, parents who will develop awareness of traffic behavior because we are unfortunately witnessing that parents are increasingly negative examples of their 9 children not acting. And also related to that Violent Zaion should see how to punish for example. a parent who buys his underage child and, therefore, drives an expensive and powerful car, unfortunately we have witnessed that there have already been many such accidents where either those children or those children have become murderers where they killed other children. And we also have a case, for example. 2 weeks ago, where minors of 15, 16 years old bought a car from an unknown person and drove that car, had a car accident, and in that car accident a 16-year-old child died, and then we could hear that the person who sold the car to the minors so that he couldn't actually be punished under our law. Perhaps a few more suggestions about the helmet, we welcome the introduction of helmets as regards riding a bike but we suggest that the obligation is limited to 16 years of life, i.e. until the 16th year of life, i.e. That helmets are protected by the most endangered, so they're children until the age of 16. The data tells us that when you fall off your bike, it's usually 70, 80% head trauma. Therefore, the Libre Club is in principle in favour of this Law, and we will ultimately determine it depending on the position of our amendment by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17808	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. A representative of the Dance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17809	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Pavlic said: “A prohibition is introduced on a small door in Croatia.” It is simply not true because there is no ban on alcohol consumption anywhere in the provisions of this Law but only on bans on alcohol consumption during driving, and that is something quite different from what the word prohibition implies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17810	Thank you very much. An additional explanation of the minister. Minister Mlinarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17811	Here's your esteemed representative. Just a few brief explanations, which was run by the government about this 75 kilowatt, the strength of the car's engine. According to statistical data, cars that are harder to manage and older drivers are the most common reason to buy a car like that after 18th birthday or give it to a car that has 200 or 300 horses and which then, of course, ends up either by the road or in a pole or in another vehicle. Secondly, this companion or person over the age of 25 in the car is one, from 23 o'clock in the evening to 05 o'clock in the morning, there we also saw that the whole groups, four, five children of 18 years of age who went to the 18th birthday party, were able to die in the nights when they were coming back from the disk and we consider it necessary that this is the one restriction that, at the time when the most traffic accidents with young people are being one person more serious in the car which is going to be the correct factor that these people don't, that these people don't race when they come back from the drive, that they don't drive 160, 200 and so on. As for the safe-driving school. It is being introduced into most of Europe's countries. It's no special long special school. It is 8 to 10 hours theoretical and practical in school safe driving where young drivers later, meaning after the experiment, after what they have temporary permission for two years, have to pass that, in order to clarify any other things that were not clear to them, and behind that is one for, over Saturday and Sunday, such schools are usually organised, and the Ministry of Interior will very quickly find exactly the best schools which, which will get that opportunity to test, means after these few hours of theory and practical driving would be the test behind which the driver would then get a definitive driver's license. So this is neither a major material load nor a major time limit, and yet after two years of driving, one such test would be passed to obtain a definitive driver’s license on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17812	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. Representative Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17813	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I couldn't agree with you if it wasn't any special school when it comes to training for safe driving, schooling, caring, or safe driving. It's about, in fact, special school centres with a specially decorated space where the driver's training is done in sudden situations, in case of road ice, water on the road, bigger curves and so on. Such centres should also be established in the Republic of Croatia. I personally think that measures should be taken as soon as possible to assist the establishment of such centres from the state budget in major cities and centres of the Republic of Croatia in which drivers could be sent, not only young people but also other drivers who have to occasionally come to the opportunity to actually ensure safe traffic, especially from the aspect of vehicle modernisation, which also manage the technical and technological properties that they have.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17814	Here you go, pal Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17815	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor. I don't know if I got it right, but a young driver can be 30 and 60 years old, not 18. So will this 60-year-old take a 25-year-old escort? There's something else bothering me here. Why is the 25-year limit, what does it mean? I think that this companion must have a certain number of years of experience in driving, not any limitation in terms of age.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17816	Okay. This was like this at the border of correcting an incorrect quote. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Clubs. A colleague of the Jarnjak and a colleague of Ivas. All right, split, so first Rade Ivas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17817	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, I'll be very brief and I'll only talk about the Law of Infractions. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Prescribing an emergency adoption for the reason that the Government has referred the Final Proposal for a Law on Road Safety, which requires the implementation of certain provisions of the applicable Law on Infringements, i.e. to specify certain provisions in that Act which should enable the implementation of the Road Safety Act. Efficient sanctioning is the most common cause of the accident such as overspeed, irregular overruns, alcohol consumption before driving, we can stop this trend of accident on our roads, and he says that in the first 8 months there were over 53,000 traffic accidents in which more than 300 people died. Such black statistics forced and forced everything... and responsible road safety personnel to tighten the Transport Safety Act. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law on infringements as a unique normative act containing material and legal and anti-procedural provisions of criminal law was adopted in 2002. The material and legal provisions prescribe assumptions for the determination of violations, the pronunciation of criminal sanctions. The Law on Infringements does not have a particular part so that the description of individual infringements is contained in a number of laws governing various areas. One of the laws prescribed by law is the Road Safety Act. Analysing the reasons that led to the deterioration of the road safety situation, it was estimated that, in part, the Law on Infringements also affected the situation. It has, as a fundamental law, derivated a whole series of provisions of the applicable Road Safety Act, which have proved very effective in introducing traffic discipline of road users. Changes to the Law on Infringements are very small, but they are therefore very important and important for the implementation of the Road Traffic Safety Act. Surely our Criminal Code has a lot of disadvantages to change it in detail and a joyful announcement by our minister this morning to prepare a complete amendment to the Law of Infractions. Which we'll probably discuss in the fall. However, in order for the proposed Road Safety Act to be applied qualitatively, the Government came out with this short novel containing only 6 articles. Thus, in the first article, it amends Article 30(1) that a fine cannot be prescribed or imposed in the amount of less than 300 kuna or more than 15 kuna for natural persons, i.e. less than 5000 kuna niit of more than 50,000 kuna for legal persons. We believe that this drastic punishment of those who most endanger human lives should be supported and that this is a valid proposal. Article 4 provides that certain infringements may be subject to mandatory application of a protection measure prohibiting the management of motor vehicles and Article 42(3) adds a new paragraph to which it is regulated. Namely in the current law it wasn't that it was universityly prescribed, it was not she could not be needed profilingly. But the greatest controversy he has caused is Article 5. Proposal for an amending law supplementing the law on violations. Namely these changes the policeman will be able to take the driver's license on the spot no more for three days than for 30 days. Even so, it was possible for a police officer to withdraw his driver's license, but he was obliged to apply for an infringement procedure within 3 days. And he's asking the court to extend this measure. The government clarifies this submission by reason of the fact that the extension of the measure of confiscation of the driver's licence aims to introduce a discipline for drivers and other traffic participants, affecting the economics of the infringement procedure, which should be implemented quickly and without delay and reducing the possibility of abuse of the rights of participants in the proceedings. However, here we can point out one observation that these changes will allow a police officer, without a court order, to actually withdraw his driver’s license for a longer period of time. So it's possible to complete a misdemeanor procedure and it can take a year and more. However, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that these amendments and additions to the law on violations will enable more effective implementation of this Road Safety Act. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17818	Thank you very much. And now there's Mr. Representative Ivan Jarnjak. I'm sorry, sir. I'm sorry. Two corrections I didn't register. This is Mr. Mato Arlović, vice president, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17819	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague and colleague. It pointed out, among other things, that it will also contribute to improving road traffic safety and the safety of citizens of property in transport, although it resolves the issue of alcohol consumption in a different way and speeding and so on. However, I would like to remind myself that this is not necessarily accurate information and that in this respect, the law on road safety and the Law on amendments to the Tzacon on infringements is lacking in relation to compliance with the European Union's documents. According to the 93rd road safety progharm, and the promotion of road safety to the European Union since 97 related to the 97th programme. In 2001, the concept of which in the first programme was divided into preventive parts in action related to the human vehicle and infrastructure, which is the current subject of the interchange and addition of the law or new law, was abandoned. And a completely different concept is being sought, which about blubbers people's decisions and actions and the change of infrastructure and the diversity of vehicles even to be incorporated into the law from the aspect of road safety, and that is the lack of this law. And we'll probably have to make some changes and supplement the novels when they come in. But he's certainly better at his existing law, and that's why he needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17820	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17821	Thank you very much. It is an incorrect allegation that these solutions will reduce the possibility of abuse of authorised persons. For the simple reason, it's actually going to be the other way around. Because these solutions are left to say, in a specific case, a cop can change whether he's going to punish someone with 500 or 1500 kuna. So discretion law is 1,000 kuna. On the other hand, when a police officer had to perform an additional procedure to withdraw the driver's license, then he was assessing whether he would take it, he wouldn't deserve it. Now that he can take away his driver's license without a problem, I think the space of abuse will increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17822	Thank you very much. Mr. Jarnjak on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17823	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, co-workers of my colleague and colleague. The HDZ will support the adoption of the Road Safety Act on Roads, which is the law and the motive and the adoption of the law are extremely humanitarian on the one hand. And on the other hand, useful and necessary. D'Abise's state of traffic security improved and that there would be fewer victims on our roads. The first law, which was passed on December 4, 92, came into force on the 30th day following the publication and the second law, which was passed on May 31st 96th and came into force on July 1, 96th, and I have been honored to defend both of these laws against the cohabitations of the Croatian saboteur at the time was always the same problem and was always the same goal, and they always tried to find optimal solutions that would reduce this evil on Croatian roads. I began with this because it is now a proposal for this Law to take effect on the day of publication. Maybe he'll think straight about giving the government a day's announcement or leaving a month like we left for a month, and it's been used for you for a month to prepare for law enforcement. This means the adoption of those sublaws and regulations that should be, and on the other hand the warning to drivers of that month when the austs on the road are told him by the new law that the brother would be punished so much and so much. Or from J1. The 9th will be punished so much and so much. This proved to be extremely good, and in people it was well accepted either and on the other hand we prepared officers or officials of an authorised official, because it is also necessary to attract them to prepare themselves for a new law. Given that this law has been passed by an emergency procedure, that these provisions that have now been passed and we are going to make them different from what was now, it would not be a bad idea to think about it. And the other thing about the adoption of both laws, I must say that these laws were passed unanimously in the Croatian Parliament, so I suggest that we reach consensus this time, given the motives that are at stake. You know if you asked those who were suffering the painful consequences of car accidents, about this law, and I often had opportunities to talk to them, then they would suggest much more rigorous measures. A lot more rigorous punishment. But what's for non-compliance with road safety rules is not out of wickedness but out of good intentions. If time could go back if those people hadn't experienced that accident, and they have that experience, you'd be sure they'd never endanger anyone or themselves or anyone else in the traffic. But look what we have in Croatia. 4 million and 500 thousand about, in 2003, we had a million and 964 thousand 406 drivers. Driver. We had a million and 677 thousand vehicles on the engine drive, but we had 92 thousand and 102 car accidents. We've had severe injuries of 26 grand and 153. In total, 26 thousand injured, 4 thousand injured, 800 injured, 21 thousand injured and 701 killed. There's an interesting piece of information I'd like to warn you about that you're dealing with, to look at serious injuries. You should see analysts working on that profession, what's going on. In 96, 16,182 people were injured, of which 4.736 were seriously injured. 2003. 26 thousand, so 10 thousand more car accidents, 4,878 seriously injured. It's a very interesting fact that he's constant when it comes to the number of serious injuries. So 701 died, a total of about 11 thousand means for these since Croatia exists. I don't want to talk about that data anymore, but what I said about that data, it's the data that justifies the adoption of this law. This law in the public is of great interest, which is normal because we are all involved in traffic, whether drivers, passengers, passengers or pedestrians. Everyone. In one form or another, we always appear as traffic participants. Some here also spoke in 96, 92, and today I know about who will say in this House that punishments are too high. Penalties aren't taxes. Penalties aren't taxes. It's not something you have to give no matter what happens. The penalty is the result of something that you've put yourself at risk in traffic, but not just yourself, but all the other traffic users around you. Hence, punishment is a repressive measure that warns you that you do not do so on the road because it does not endanger only yourself but also others. The law has both preventive and repressive measures, and that's good, and I don't think there's a solution to this problem without prevention. However, I would like to say, prevention must begin in auto school. We in auto-schools with the ability to drive have to make people tolerance and tolerance on the road. It's the cheapest way, and the biggest reserve to improve traffic conditions. Tolerance costs each other nothing on the road, and it depends on it to the greatest extent, really, on the state of road safety. I'm going to say something about those little bits connected to it, whether 0.5, 0.3, 0.0. I'm the one who told you that I'm more afraid of the one in the morning when I'm sitting behind the wheel, so in that crowd I see a man who's just looking at whom he'd object why he's driving like this, why they're not adapting to him, why he's bypassing him, why he's taking over his traffic, just you intolerant. I'm a lot more afraid of traffic than the one who can control himself and dose that says brothers can drink up to 0.5 but not anymore. That one can be controlled. That one can be dosed. In my opinion, it's less of a danger than that, when you take it accidentally one way or another, and then it's as if it's his personal right, personal property, as if you've taken off his pride with it, he's personally experiencing it even though the person who did it to him in traffic or saw him, or maybe ever in his life and saw him. So it kind of seems to me that this 0.0, which I really don't like, since we're at the club, I'm saying it in person now, we at the HDZ Club got the freedom to talk about it in some way, so I thought I needed to say it. Mr. Vice President, please turn this jam down. Braceki's enough. When he... Can I have some more? When it comes to the provisions of this law, then the safety of road traffic and prevention, the right prevention, serious prevention is above all every traffic participant himself, but then law enforcement. We had if you were looking at statistics, in 96, when we passed a law that would be more rigorous than the 92nd we had then a fall and an accident and killed on the roads by 2002, until 2003. Then the Law on Infringements was passed which disrupted that rhythm and in 2003 we had an increase, in 2004 that trend continued. And if we were to fully apply the 96th Rigorous, hard, daily law today, there would be no increase and there would be no such indication. The legal provisions themselves will contribute to the so-called The first shock and fear of punishment and repression, but in the long run the only firm application is the application of these legal provisions. Why do we adhere to the Road Safety Act in other countries, and we follow it very rigorously? Because we are aware that constant monitoring of the application of these legal provisions is on the roads. That's what we have to do. We have to do this. And finally, this law is compatible and it is extremely important with the laws on traffic safety on the roads of the countries from which we come the largest number of tourists. And that's very important because in Croatia more than 90% of tourists come by car. And the important thing is that that's when these people don't come across blockades and changes that they won't understand. And that's good because that's when those entrants are in traffic, but we're safer domestically, too. ... That's what I said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, we support the adoption of this Law, we support the principles of the adoption of this Law. We support that this Law is indeed applicable and that there is much, much less sadness on our roads and in our families so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17824	Thank you. We have 5 corrections of an incorrect quote. First came Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17825	Thank you very much. Two allegations of fellow Capricorns would like to correct. First, he said the motives of proposing this law are humanitarian. I did not find any provisions in the humanitarian activity of the traffic police or traffic users. Maybe human, yes, but humanitarian, no. And secondly, providing information, recalling the number of motor vehicles in 2003 million and 600. The number of accidents, seriously injured 4000 800. The number of dead 701. And by comparing to 96, therefore, when there were only a million vehicles and the number of seriously injured and the number of deaths suffered, there was a conclusion and a claim that that is why this Law is needed. These data actually prove that there is obviously a risk group of drivers that does not depend on increasing the number of drivers and motor vehicles on the roads, that they are the default size and this Law starts with them being up to 0.5. Which is obviously not true, and my colleague Jarnjak himself said he disagreed. And secondly, how much modernization of the fleet has affected traffic safety and this shows. And this modernization of the fleet is that external debt, the duty we have left to the current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17826	Mr. Lesar, you've been expressing your controversyal opinions the whole time, and there's been no correction. But since it's a practice here, then I'm bound to just mention it like this. Mr. Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his inspired presentation, Mr. Jarnjak said the sentences were not high. If he hadn't spoken on behalf of the Club, I would have agreed with him, however, I remind him that right now, we had two readings in the previous session of the Parliament on amendments and additions to this Act when the HDZ Club just claimed that penalties were too high. I agree that punishments are high, but they serve to protect all traffickers. It's the first correction to an incorrect quote. And secondly, this Law is only partially compatible with laws in other countries where one part of the tourists comes from. For example, in Italy, it is certainly not mandatory for lights to be turned on during the daytime drive. It's similar in Germany, it's similar in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17828	It could also have been discussed all of this brought out. Mr. Shime Luchin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17829	Thank you very much. Well, it's an incorrect assumption that prevention starts in auto schools and schools. Prevention actually starts in preschool age which has been shown by expert research. There are several kindergartens in Zagreb, especially one where, in fact, he would dare say, that children know the rules better than adult traffic participants. I do, however, think that prevention starts in the family and therefore I do not understand one illogical solution in this Law, and I was talking about it. It is not clear to me that the minimum penalty punishes parents, or older ones, who drive children up to 5 or 12 years of age, whether they are on the first sibling, whether they are small children. So less than if you don't buckle up with your seat belt. As much as parents drive carefully these children or any other possibility of an accident exists. So, I think these relationships need to be changed. If 500 kuna for a belt or 700 for a helmet, let's say 300 for a child.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17830	Another correction, the esteemed representative, Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17831	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Jarnjak, a respected representative on behalf of the HDZ Club, defends the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, has argued and has led me to doubt the discrepancies between the government and the HDZ Club that the most important tolerance and tolerance in transport is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17832	What's an incorrect quote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17833	Therefore, it is incorrect to expose and claim that the most important tolerance and tolerance in transport is to introduce the law by amending and supplementing absolutely repressive measures. Whether tolerance and tolerance or repressive measures are important, this really should bring the HDZ Club in line with the government. ... So don't curse, answer me, or give me a warning, President. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't curse.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17834	I won't give you a warning, but we'll...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17835	So, I think he's respected...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17836	...change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17837	I think that an esteemed colleague incorrectly claimed that traffic is the most important tolerance...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17838	Okay, that's what we heard. You're doing it twice now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17840	That he incorrectly claimed the most important tolerance, and you say it's incorrect. Okay, okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17841	Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17842	U.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s club, Honored Representative Ratko Gajica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17843	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. In view of the consequences that we have in traffic or whose witnesses we are, I am expressing my opinion and my opinion on behalf of the Club that this is sufficient reason to go into these changes and that is certainly sufficient reason to support the main solutions that this new law, i.e. laws, or solutions that are being incorporated into the Law. I will highlight here several extreme situations that seem important to me and as a reason why repression is raised and as a warning that all of this is meant when the law is evaluated and predicts efficiency in its conduct. The first thing that seems to me to belong to this category of extreme situations is this abuse of speed. Now, the abuse of speed is either on a public road or it's in populated places. Either it's done out of pride or it's done out of demeaning regulations. I am absolutely in favour of the need to raise the repression here, namely to establish or strengthen the sanctions that this is not done. But I want to warn you one more thing. Not only will sanctions be enough to achieve a result here, I simply think the entire mechanism must play its part here. I'm thinking of the next thing, using speed in settlements, like motorcycles, it seems to me that people in the police mostly know what people are, what situations are sometimes and what time they're dealing with. So, when we know that detection and we know who it's about, then we just have to answer it on purpose, pick up those drivers, punish them, I've heard even one nice proposal that probably can't be installed here, and this one you take away someone's vehicle and don't give it back to them until he pays the fine. It's probably not possible and it probably doesn't make complete sense, but the idea of some reason certainly makes sense. Another thing that seems to me to be an extreme situation and it produces these consequences that we're talking about are these traffic jams. I will point to an illustration relating to the relationship Karlovac – Slunj. You have about 50 kilometers where you form plugs that strengthen a couple of speedboats and then you have drivers in a column that raises anxiety to the upper border and then jumps out of the column and pours both trouble and your own and other people. Of course, these people have made a mistake here either at speed or at an exaggeration where there is no need or at another store, but I still point to a police action or a mechanism that may help. Instead of being somehow operationally active in that relationship and in that traffic, the police pulls out some kind of tow truck to unload or stop some insolent person and then treats him specifically. The police are waiting in wait and waiting for me to come along and pay the fine is fair, but in this situation, given the circumstances that we have on the track where there is no space, on which there is no third tape where there is no stairway to get away, in fact the general circumstances show that it is not just the driver's fault. The third extreme situation is running on an open road, and I'm gonna be a little rude, so I'm gonna say, and maybe I'm not that much less of a little bit of a hot car chaser. It really needs to be punished drastically, I can't say that the police know who he is as well as he knows in the settlement, but if there's an increased repression or an extremely increased repression from this law anywhere suitable in this place, it seems to me that he's very appropriate. The fourth extreme is about this drink, I like this 0.0 proposal, but I don't think 0.5 is an extreme situation, I'd say that 0.0 is going to be fired, of course not over 0.5 where we're going to stop at this point I wouldn't define myself, but I think 0.0 as cute as this proposal should be changed. I'm going to say one more thing that's not an extreme situation, which probably doesn't belong to the content of this Law, but by my impression, it affects the behavior of a driver, these are the signs that people, relatives of the people who were killed in car accidents, put on the side of the road. I have absolute respect and piety for this act and for the behaviour of the family that did it but the first conclusion for me is that the number of these signs along the roads is increasing and that they are largely challenging and affecting both the attention and behavior of the driver and if I may say so should not actually stand in that place. I repeat with all the piety to the dead and with all the feeling of the relatives who set it up. If I were to conclude all of this, then I could say the following, the first repression or enhanced sanctions in all the forms given by this Law should be supported with some details which can be extorted here by my discussions but should be supported as a necessary measure for people who do not respect the law to come to their senses. Another thing the police as a traffic participant, as an important traffic participant who can, if I can say so in traffic, garner some relationships at one point, should not now take advantage of the opportunity so that his discretionary right is exploited in an extra way, because of a number of situations which in traffic condition and driving and behaviour not only of the driver but also of all other circumstances, I advocate what my colleague Jarnjak just said earlier should probably agree that the application of the Law goes with a certain delay for 30 days as some kind of psychological and educational preparation which would also be useful. I, of course, will not teach the minister a lesson in this matter but about the individual behaviour of a police officer until the moment that his idea of being ambushed so he waits for who to come or be able to see his role as an operational participant in traffic that will pass by a certain relationship just to see a police vehicle and people will immediately press a little brakes. So, in these relations, the police can be put in place one way or another, and I am in favour of punishing the ones for whom such punishment is mature, but I am in order for the police to be with us drivers in some relationships, both in traffic and as a counselor and the one who warns, and the one who threatens and, of course, finally takes the money. I'm old, of course, the story, if we're going to stand strictly then... from Split to Zagreb will have to drive 8 hours, and you'll admit it's also irrational. Is he driving eight hours? Then I'll ride with him if he sees me. I will conclude the following way we at the Club are absolutely for this law to be supported especially because of this idea that people who are unreasonable are finally acting in understanding. That's why we're gonna leave some space around that we start then and then. My personal opinion is this is about 0.5. I don't think it's that dangerous. And I especially refer to this as the Ministry of the Interior accepts my role to say, to a greater extent, my role as friends in transport, for those who deserve friendship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17844	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17845	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A fellow Gajica incorrectly said that from his experience on the D2 road, the police are only lurking in an ambush without excluding road haulers from traffic when they stop traffic. I have to say from personal experience that I've been on that road several times and personally present in the column when the police excluded such vehicles from traffic, that's one thing. And secondly, the police and traffic control the speed, meaning with the Travimo devices, which means they're still doing something in traffic. We can say it's not enough, but it certainly takes more effort to make it better and better.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17846	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Škulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17847	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. While we are discussing this Law and we are trying to explain to the public all the advantages and disadvantages of this Law, the safety of road traffic, some of you in this assembly today should receive criminal penalties. And it's because of the wrong parking around the Parliament building. So, not only did you park on the sidewalk, and thus made it impossible to move, not just to me, but to have children in a wheelchair, blind people and difficult to move persons. Also some of you should also receive criminal penalties for abuse of the mark of accessibility. Because you've parked, and thank God I see you're in good shape, you've parked in a place for people with disabilities. So, Mr. Minister, you have work to do. Prime Minister Sanader said today that we must send a strong message by adopting this law. Unfortunately, I must conclude that with our traffic culture, so as far as parking is concerned, we are sending the opposite message. I hope that our next messages will be in a certain way that we will call them to the public. Now let me get back to the subject, even though it's the wrong parking topic. We've already heard scary data on the death toll. It should be noted that 150 people with severe head damage, or who are in a state of coma, lasts for 4 to 5 months in rehabilitation centres annually. In most cases, permanent disability remains. I'm talking about people who were killed in car accidents and who are at rehab in the Krapina spas. There are also hundreds of spinal injuries in Croatia each year that result in paraplegia and tetraplegia, immobility and weighting immobility. And 44% happen in car accidents. It's a long-term and expensive rehabilitation. And not to say that it's a twist in one second of life, that one healthy normal person becomes a person who will permanently depend on the help of another person. I also include family members who not only care about people who gain permanent disability but who suffer from one agony. I believe that in this law, there is little to talk about the prevention and education of drivers. Otherwise, there's a little talk about education at all levels. More about transport culture is talked about and educated in pilot projects, as well as by fellow Lucin, who rarely summed up in practice. Only penalties and bans without education will change the situation significantly. One absurd. If by any chance I wanted to use an electric motorbike right now, I should go to a psychotest. But what about the drivers of the young drivers who are going to take the driver's test, I didn't take the driver's exam, so I don't think they should pass the psychotest. Today we speak, today we advocate drastic punishment by applying this law. How consistent are we in applying the law that also has fines? We apply the ban on selling alcohol and tobacco products to minors. So, since we're defending 0.0% here, in order to get into an analysis of whether it's necessary, as much as necessary, because that's what the waist probably knows best about. However, I did a little research on my own, so how much punishment we have, how much it all makes sense, so I chose my little neighbors and went along with them to buy alcoholic products. And believe it or not, no salesman has asked a minor how old he is. And I took a sample of kids from five to 17 years old. So you could see that they were children. And I never, and I don't know if anyone's ever answered in this country for selling alcohol to underage people? I wonder if this law will be fair, will we all be equal before the law? Unfortunately, for such a doubt, I have also set up an example in my life when I met a young woman in a wheelchair of high paradriplegia, so the seizure of a complete body who was a top athlete, suffered in a car accident that she did not cause, the perpetrator, so the one who caused the car accident was not punished, because his father was high-ranking. Now I'd like a little something about brighter topics. This law also brings some good things about the disabled people themselves, it's about a sign of accessibility that is so misused, so everyone has that sign. It is certainly important that this sign is issued in one place, that it is impossible, so that it belongs to the person not the vehicle. So anyway it's positive. And in the end I want to really be, I don't really want to be pessimistic, but I want to believe that this law with quality amendments will at least increase the safety of our roads in some way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17848	Thank you very much. I call for responsible services if there are parked cars in the parking lots around the hall in places marked for disabled persons or other improperly parked vehicles to be removed immediately by spiders or otherwise by appropriate services. Dear Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17849	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to take a brief look at this law with a single sentence or a single question that I believe is also known to you, and it reads this way: "do you know what musical instrument has made the greatest shift in human civilization?" Then the bad guys say "police whistle." Apparently, the proposer of this law had this in mind by proposing such a restrictive law. On the other hand, while realizing the alarmity of the situation that has been expressed, someone has already mentioned it in Cardinal Bozanic's letter, and to remind me that counterpart Brnardic sent a parliamentary question two months ago about this problem, the question is indeed asked whether at this point, and on this side I also commend the Government there were other options, rather than proposing a law with such measures. Losing traffic accidents for society are huge, they today account for between 1% and 2% of gross national income and are estimated to be in 2020, so only for some 15 years as regards the mortality of traffic will be third in the cause of almost a million deaths each year. That sounds like 100 years ago, when the first car accident was registered, so at that point the coroner who witnessed that accident said, this must never happen again. The World Health Organization recognized this problem and this year’s global day, which is celebrated on April 7th, was an opportunity to focus world attention on this critical and rapid growing public health problems. The chosen slogan of the World Health Organization this year was "the safety of roads is not a coincidence" by giving us an important truth and reason for hope. Traffic accidents can be avoided if they are identified as an important public health problem and if governments and other countries take the necessary action to prevent them. Of course there is a way to reduce the number of traffic accidents. One of these certainly is today's proposed law. There are some that are a little unusual. I will only give an example of a country that has administratively reduced the number of people killed in traffic accidents, so that all those who have not been killed on state roads have been expelled from the death list. Thus, it certainly will not be done well for the people or for the state, but the fact is that the most successful countries, the most economically developed, have the smallest number of deaths per hundred thousand, which usually measured and included both government and civil services in the prevention measures. Of course, such measures must be well planned and should not expect a spectacular result. I will give an example that thanks to a series of measures in the United States last year, there was an increase in the number of related traffic users or users of the safety belt by only 2%, but this ultimately meant more than 5 hundred rescued persons. Finally, a few examples that are typically ours. Well, an example of a colleague, Škulić, has already stated whether we really need an objection to unlicensed parking, especially parking in places that are for disabled persons, so let's ask ourselves how many civil servants of our fellow law enforcement officers have tied the safety belt this morning. And an example of two, playing a little investigative journalism yesterday, about half past 28 motorcycles on the green wave now. Of them, 13 had a helmet. If we add some hats to that, it's still less than 50% of motorcycles with a safety helmet. Three weeks ago, I had a chance to be at a convention in Rome about a city whose traffic culture we, let's be honest, have some pretty stereotype thinking, in a city where motorcycles are very popular and in a city where I haven't seen a single motorcycle without a helmet in letters. And an example number three with an apology from the family that will be apostrophe in it. In fact, he's so hard and perhaps the best talk about the big problem that every participant in traffic faces and I believe you remember him well that about a month and a half ago, a 60-year-old girl was killed in a car accident with two of her grandchildren and a third grandson was in critical condition. This same man has committed 155 traffic violations over the past six years, 63 times his driver's license has been revoked, seven times lost his driver's license because he collected ten fines. Three weeks before he died, the police stopped him at night because he was driving a wrong car under the influence of alcohol, so he was arrested until he sobered up. I think that there's every sense here, there's no question of who's guilty but who isn't guilty, from a family who's allowed children to ride with such a person, from the community for passive observation, from the legislator, from the police officers who turned into statisticians, by writing out orderly misdemeanors, from judges, etc., etc. So I'm asking myself and you whether the law itself will lead to a fall in traffic safety. It's hard as long as those who should be an example really don't become one, as long as the motorcyclists mentioned here experience the helmet as unnecessary fashion detail, as long as the environment and the community tolerates the offenders as something quite normal or worse as small local heroes. But it is justified to ask whether drivers are the only ones who need to answer. As much as they are and are at all suitable for the failures of those who design, build roads, maintain roads, those whose shafts fly through the net open tunnels, those who produce and maintain vehicles. I'm saying this for a reason by citing an example that I had the opportunity to read and listed by the professor... from the Faculty of Transport and Traffic Sciences that six dangerous places were recovered from the period from 1992 to 1996, where it was killed on average 12 people a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After that, there were almost no deaths in those places and the number of accidents decreased by about 90%. It should be understood that in such cases sanctioning direct or indirect participants in these events would have an effect on achieving greater traffic safety rather than just sanctioning drivers. In the end, only a few solutions to this law that I consider to personally point out and represent an ever-increasing problem. ... I found one interesting piece of information that almost 50% of people phoned while driving and almost 20% texting, so not only drive but also... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By the way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also important provision that drivers are not allowed to drive, young drivers alone but accompanied by the most critical time periods which I think is how good it is for young people but also for the quieter nights and nights of parents who send them out. Traffic accidents will always be but can be significantly reduced both by number and by consequences. How? By continuing education from the earliest age to the deep age, by creating ethical and cultural habits, which is both duty and education independent of transport, by raising the general standard of living. Now it seems to me that there is much more to talk about than is really being respected. And this law, although I repeat, is a very restrictive belief which I will accept, is believed to be one of the elements in the government's efforts to create road safety both for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for their guests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17850	Thank you very much. Honored representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17851	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I do not know whether this final proposal for a road safety law is passed in order to comply with the law with the European Union, for the sake of a catastrophic situation on the roads or simply for the purpose of filling the state budget. If it is to comply with the law with the European Union, then I must point out that we are not in conformity with roads or vehicles or wages. If the law is passed for the sake of a catastrophic situation on the roads, I'm afraid it's not going to be solved this way and if it's about filling the state budget, then it's another thing. Then it is unrealistic to expect that a restrictive law will solve the problem of traffic security. On paper it may be ideal, but the question is, if a law like this is passed, what will our roads look like and how will we all behave on them? The attempt to enforce the law was proposed in the mandate and past the government but failed. Among other things, today's legislator, i.e. The HDZ has made significant remarks on the similar text of the bill that is now being proposed. Actually, it's not an exception, it's a rule, and it's not just us. There's one thing she advocates when you're an opposition and another when you're power. But now the law proposes the MUP. police who are wasting more power and more punishment, as well as a media campaign that shows the catastrophic state of transport has been going on for a long time. The question arises whether there are enough arguments in favor of the police's request to increase the fines, and drastically. If the applicant's motive is to do everything to raise the level of security, then the proposal should be supported but a drastic increase in monetary penalties in the proposal shows that there is another. the fiscal motives of the applicant. Money to increase fines has already been included in budget revenue. This part of the proposal cannot be agreed on because it shows the government's social insensitivity and intends to take to the citizens another kuna that it has left after it settles the costs of expensive fuel, higher costs of vehicle maintenance and tolls. Was it possible to unwittingly punish with multiple penalty points, long-term withdrawal of the driver's license, several days in prison for those who deserve it, of course that's possible. And if that were the case, I could accept the government's proposal to increase security. As a matter of fact, security may increase, but the government's cash register will certainly profit. That's why I can't agree with such a drastic increase in fines. Prove that drastic punishment does not result in itself or need not. This proposal does not affect the measures, the poor Croats can hardly pay the fines of European amounts from their late incomes. Therefore, to reduce fines and to increase the other forms of penalties in proportion and to believe in the claim that the real objective of transport is to ensure the safety of citizens. The safety of our citizens thus can be seen in the same way as parking. The car is getting bigger every day and places where they can properly park are getting smaller. New zones and signs ban nothing like mushrooms. Who takes care of the car ratio and parking space? A little someone! But the punishment of an irregular parking lot is very much so. For example, an example is our Parliament where not enough places have more than 10 places and hundreds of cars. Ten cars have a place and everyone else is in violation. And finally to resuscitate. The story of increasing the sentence or repression will not result without strict implementation. It's just short-term political points. The question remains what to take further if this repression does not produce results. Do you continue to increase the level of punishment and how long? Who will be responsible if only such measures do not produce results in the next period? It is therefore necessary to take a wider social action with a view to the following. In the implementation of this Act, the police should play a special role with repressive but preventive, correct working methods to appear in critical places and in critical times. To work, not to be limited, e.g. With mileage or spent fuel, to educate and not only punish, that it is principled in implementation and not that there is a public comment that more penalties will only contribute to greater corruption to the police. Analyze and submit constant reports of the Parliament by the Secretary-General in parallel with the traffic reports and the report on the operation of the traffic police to see a shift in trend, not that everything remains just a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17852	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17853	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. What has been happening on our roads lately and especially this year since the situation to tragic scales has escalated, of course, that the government is putting into one position to give an adequate response to the emerging situation. And surely, right now, here is the fact that we are discussing the urgent procedure of a brand-new Law on Road Safety and on the urgent amendment and supplementation of the law on infringements should bear witness to the willingness and determination of the Government that it is a staff and that it wants to give a maximum and do everything on its part to ease this situation at the very least. And that's certainly to say hello. But is that what it is? And if it is not, or if the Government is doing it in the best of intentions and not because the public is excited, and justifiablely, then it is necessary to listen to some critical remarks, i.e. to listen to how the problem is and how ultimately we MPs see it, how we really solve it with comprehensive measures. Here, recently there was a debate about illegal construction and I really believe that the government is ready to do everything in this respect, so they're... We had a whole series of other smaller laws that regulated this problem to be effective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not like that here. Yesterday we discussed the final proposal to amend and supplement the Penal Code. The government has smoothly rejected the SDP Club's proposal in addition to the Penal Code on Risking Traffic by Dangerous Action or by the means where we have just asked for supplements which we so much need because they are being prevented, where we have also anticipated high sentences from 1 to 10 years. In fact, that kind of criminal act doesn't exist with us yet. The truth about jeopardising the safety of air traffic but not the road traffic that is so, so much needed to protect or ensure such necessary road safety. Likewise, not only was it so smoothly rejected, this new incrimination that we have so much to say, but it was equally, although it was debated on the final proposal for a criminal law that passed two readings and the government completely ignored the whole chapter 20 where it was not reacted in any way in the 20s to the general security of people and property and traffic security. He does not respond to the special criminal act of causing a car accident where the prison sentence has been prevented from, even the fine I ask you, for a criminal act, of course committed from being gone up to 3 years, and that when a significant material damage was done when another person was seriously injured and sometimes those persons who remained only alive on a case-by-case basis have remained permanently disabled. And for that, it's supposed to be a prison sentence, a fine or a prison for up to three years. The only thing that's supposed to happen is a punishment of up to five years. That's what we're proposing to change. Why hasn't the government changed that? She had plenty of time to talk about it, or she didn't have a comprehensive picture at all, or she didn't think about this matter at all, that exactly the criminal law in her one head with a whole series of criminal acts, especially this specific cause of a car accident, didn't respond adequately. And then here we are now in a felony wish, precisely because the criminal law should take care of exactly that one prevention, and then it turns out that we are here somewhere more severely punished than is provided for in criminal law, and that, at all, leads to a hierarchy of legal norms in our system to an absurd situation that we have a violation of the law that will be more drastic than criminal law. But it's not exclusive, it happened when we already did it in 96 when the criminal part of drug possession became a felony. Well, then we've reacted more adequately and more strictly in a felony, so we have a more absurd situation to say, in practice, that there's more serious punishment under the law and law than criminal law. Such illogicalities about it, if the government wants to deal seriously with this, indeed once danger, no longer dangers but monsters, should be taken into account. But yesterday, here's tomorrow to vote on this final draft criminal law. Here I am pleased to see the representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior sitting today. And it's not good to look at each other now. This is our common problem. So what my colleague Rose said now is causing serious preparedness, and I don't doubt this serious willingness that the government wants to react in this decisive way. Then why didn't she do it there also yesterday where she did, too, if she needed it more. Because the newer time is purely due to the technicalization of living conditions, and especially the motorization itself has grown indeed one and has to be sensitized and strengthened interest especially and, even the government that is most responsible, but also all for such a single problem of these species as well as violations but equally criminal acts which, as a matter of fact, seem reluctant to go away. But it's also logical to some extent that punishments for cease-fire are, as well as for offenses, less than some premeditated intentional act. However, there is a need for a new redefination because it is just like this, such and such violations, but also criminal acts result, immediately causing serious consequences even more serious than some deliberate and deliberate act. And just in such an absurd situation in which we also bring our judicial authorities, it is precisely that they, in the inadequacy of the law themselves, imagine how to adequately respond to such acts with very serious consequences. So even though the law does not say that, so every traffic accident that has been done with alcohol or over the permitted 0.5 alcohol spills in the blood, our courts have taken it as intentional, even though the law is said to be. But really legal practice has come up with such inconsistencies of law. And I say exactly in the changes that we were supposed to discuss both this Law and that together. So even then, to look at this problem and respond adequately to it because the public is rightly reacting when she is unhappy with this situation that is happening, to what extent she is upset. The public simply does not acknowledge the fatality and coincidence of such events. In fact, it removes irresponsibility for such accidents. But often what happens in one not only social consciousness but in those who are the most responsible and that is what we have to change there. One social conviction for this kind of behavior. Somehow, we are all inclined to say: “There, traffic delicacies, traffic violations. It can happen to anyone." It's not, it's true that anyone can happen but not everyone is responsible for them. So even today and here we are often those who follow all the regulations somehow with a smile, welcome in their innermost environment that they are not capable of drivers. Politicians boast, publicly boast, "I'm not attached to the belt". In slightly more free interviews, they say, “I can’t say how much I drive”. They boast at what speed they overcome certain obstacles because it is thought to be something that doesn't deserve some kind of social condemnation as well as here lately deserves one social condemnation not to pay alimony or so. There is no ban on admission to the state service of a person who caused a car accident with severe, severe consequences. And what I have to mention, which is very important, which is still changing. By 2000, we had the usual situation of pardoning people who caused a car accident under the influence of two, three dead people who received minimum sentences of one year, one and a half days. And that's where things are being fixed that criminal policy is getting worse because it's exactly what the public is saying, so it's all about being rigorous. And here's another sentence. It is certain that I support all these measures that have been proposed in the new Criminal Law, but also the Road Safety Act. I'm expressing serious doubt as to whether they'll be feasible. We also need to strengthen the system, and that is why it is unacceptable yesterday to take away those funds and equally adequate, inadequate space. And today they're in it, and they're being prevented from fulfilling this expected social function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17854	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17855	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Every Saturday, a dozen people die on our roads. Mostly young. This situation has indeed become unbearable. Since 1990, we've lost people almost as much as in the war. Something has to be done. To this, to this condition, this situation cannot be glared. The applicable law is 1996. At that time, there were far fewer vehicles on the roads. And significantly weaker vehicles. We have an increase in the number of 70 thousand vehicles in Croatia every year. She was driving more and more, the cars were getting stronger, and the law was pretty old. He needs to be innovated. We also have the National Road Traffic Safety Programme. It predicted that by the end of 2003 we had 12 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. We had them, however, 15.9. The national programme means it has not been achieved. And that's why we try to achieve this National Programme, to do everything in our power to reduce the number of road deaths. More than these 15.9 within the European Union have only Portugal, 21, Greece 19 and a half, Latvia 21.9, Lithuania 18.9 and Estonia 16.5. At least within the European Union there is Sweden. Six deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. The plan of the European Union countries is that by the end of 2010, there will be no more than 7 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in all European Union countries. The question is, can we do it in Croatia? Probably not. But we can and must do everything possible to get as close to such a small number of foreign ones as possible. Penalties. Now, punishments are being talked about, given whether we're in power or in opposition, at least some. HDZ was in last term when I discussed a similar law against drastic penalties. Today, such a drastic punishment suggests. Otherwise, it would be good for us to show a little more consistency in issues like this that are not political. People would trust us more. But let's let it go now, to the side of this political issue, and today some say that punishments are too harsh. I don't think so. You know, no one has to pay the fines. Why does someone even have to pay the fines? No one has to pay them. It's enough not to make a mistake. That's quite enough and he won't pay the fine. Therefore, penalties in this respect cannot be too high. Look, on Croatian television a month ago, a month and a half ago, a single contribution was shown to a Swedish man. The Swedish came to Croatia, so on the road, he drove 217 kilometers an hour on that Lika master's road between Korenica and Gračac. The police caught him, translated him, arrested him immediately by a misdemeanor because he's a stranger, he's going through the emergency procedure, and he's being punished with 500 kuna. Plus those 110 kunas for the misdemeanor costs. The man couldn't come to his senses, he was a cop, and it went into that messiah. He would therefore in Sweden he has admitted himself to paying the cops but thus at least 10 000 euros. It's not even 100 here. And we're talking about too much punishment here. Penalties for such acts cannot be too high. Some countries with protracted democracies such as the Netherlands, Anglo Saxon countries have provided for one other punishment for taking a vehicle. You know this show of lands where private property has been sacred for a long time, taking away a vehicle. We haven't predicted it in this law of ours. But I'm making sure that we have tens of them that Minister Mlinarić probably knows tens of those who in a year, 20 to 30 times do the most violent offenses. Either driving under alcohol or driving without a traffic license because they've already got his license, but that's none of his business. So they'll have nothing to drive around in, so they won't be able to make that kind of misdemeanor. I don't see any second-guessing. Other types of punishment should be introduced, first of all forcing education if someone is frequented if someone is a relapser, we send him back to the driver's exam. So he'll go down the road, pay five times, and we'll see if he'll continue to commit crimes. Because that's, first he has to pay, it costs 4 and a half thousand kuna and second he has to have a hard time going to class, so he has to listen to everything he already knows. So when he goes there three or four times, then he's sure as hell not gonna do any more violations to keep himself safe. Alcohol and traffic don't go together. It is likely that these 0.5 promillas are not dangerous for transport, perhaps not even 0.8 because they exist in some countries. But I wonder why 0.5? I think what, so no one's stopping anyone from drinking so everyone can drink just don't drink and drive, nothing else, if you've decided to stay around that night drinking, so an enca drinks, but let's drive him home sober or take a cab, or have a solution. But since you look at it like this, with that 0.5 you know what it's like for those drivers, is that an iced beer is one and a half because that's two, is that one gemist eating two, so I'm not going to go over 0.5. So he makes a deal with himself and gives himself a bit of a break. And this way, if he knows he can't take a drop of alcohol, then he can just decide whether he's going to make a splendor or not. Nothing else. Young drivers are the most risky group and I agree with the most likely aggressive in transport. And most of all, they get hurt. Which is why, maybe I don't know the data, maybe not as much alcohol as the speed plus the power of the engine. New dad's cars or bought them for a gift strong too strong for them, and youth. Youth that loves speed and proves itself at speed. You know, the police can measure the level of alcohol on the road, but they can't be arranged for testosterone levels yet. They want to prove to them the speed I can achieve in the car is proof of their quality. That's why I think young drivers need to, we've heard all kinds of suggestions, Cain proposes to close the disks, to ban disco clubs. But that's not the problem. But I think I need to work out a voo. You know, for 221 you are scheduled to be fined 500 kuna. It doesn't pay them at all. They didn't get punished by it, Dad, and if Dad gets mad and says I won't pay for it, then Mom doesn't know. But it is certainly not a punishment for them; they do not see it as punishment at all. I would suggest, I like these two years of trials. But with the slightest violation, brother n driver's license again, until you learn, until you learn to go to the driver's license. It's a punishment for them and nothing else. If in those two years we teach them to drive according to the rules to be tolerated in traffic, it is likely that they will remain conscious drivers because in two years they will acquire an avika, they will learn how to drive, and they will continue to drive and when they no longer have to drive. But 221 item 4 is completely pointless. Look, they've already been messing around, I mean, 101 where, now the pensioners are going to rent. Young people will rent pensioners to wait for them while he's at the disco club and then drive home with him. Or we forbid them from 23 to 5 a.m. to drive, so we solved the problem. Someone's gonna have to pick them up, or they're gonna have to take a cab from the disco club, and that's it. It's very simple. And just a few more objections if you'll allow me, Mr. President. Article 205(2) of the driver's training but not to be performed from 23 to 5 in the morning. So please nice instead of being the opposite. To establish a rule that he must pass driving training at night we forbid him to train at night. Well, that should change, because then he'll pass the driver's license and the next day he can drive at night. So you need to use long short lights, and so on. 2,000 kuna without a driver's license. Please, it's pointless. The laying of a train is 4500 kuna, so let's punish him as much as it costs to lay down a driver's license. I wouldn't want to abuse your patience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17856	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17857	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. These tragic figures have long been worrying and warning. And certainly this Law is extremely important to get support but it should also be said that this Law is only the first step in solving the difficult and the problem we are faced with. Because the law of restrictions, the repressive measures of stricter penalties cannot solve the problem of habit, the problem of an insufficient culture of safe driving. And that's something we need to be focused on, because the modern world responds to similar problems more organised I would say more comprehensively and fully than we do. This moment I hope it will not be the same in the future. Repersive and criminal measures are important but not enough. The active policy of developing a culture of security driving requires one to expand more fully organised social effort. The creation of a culture of safe driving starts in schools, continues in auto-schools of various training centres and in all this is an extremely important place with modern training and training infrastructure for drivers, which is available to many drivers in the developed countries there today and unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we do not have it available. Safe driving is important because it is a simple way of thinking and not just mechanical action that minimises safety risks not only for the driver, for the passenger traffic environment, but for society as a whole with all the consequences caused by these tragic damages in one society. The safe ride I repeat, and I'll point out, it's a simple way of thinking. At the time of entering the vehicle, safe driving requires continuous security thinking, requires adequate intelligent interpretation of any traffic situation at any time the driver is present and not to believe how much difference there is between drivers. Early forecasting of risk situations, identification of dangerous situations, anti-cipication of threats, timely avoidance of crisis and dangerous situations is all that makes the culture of safe driving available over time and years, but which can also be learned by the proper way of education and the proper infrastructure used in the world today, but still unreachable in the Republic of Croatia from the unacceptable misunderstanding that these technologies have today. I will stress my special satisfaction that, under the new bill, special attention is given to the centres of safe driving. Safety driving centres must be those institutions that will change habits, inadmissible criteria and standards when young drivers and all drivers receive driving licences. Centres of safe driving can't be some kind of simplified schoolboy in which someone will do some important things on Saturdays and Sundays in every personal life. The adoption of a culture of safe driving I said must be an organized effort by the entire society, headed by the Ministry of the Interior. The adoption of a culture of safe driving includes, in addition to everything else, improving the physical and mental characteristics of individual drivers, which includes advanced driving courses, which includes defensive driving courses, which includes building a security culture especially for new drivers, especially for professional drivers. And the national safety programme on Croatian roads must hopefully have a new quality in the coming period, because the law itself will not be enough to solve the problem, because the problem is not simple, it is not trivial and therefore requires a different approach. Clearly, even the most developed countries with the highest traffic intensity have a relatively minimal number of victims precisely because of the fact that the development of a safe driving culture gives special attention. Here's a few world statistics. 90% of traffic accidents are related to driver behavior. Young drivers in the Republic of Croatia account for 14% of the driving population and account for up to 35% of traffic accidents. The most accidents in the European Union are young drivers with less than one year of driving experience. 50% of young drivers who die in the European Union are killed during the first year in which they were given driver's license. Unfortunately, already today, we have to conclude one fact that we are faced with, that in the next six months according to this statistics in the Republic of Croatia almost 300 people will die and any effort to justify these fact-finding is important. The lost life in the European Union is estimated at $1m. The damage done over the past six months in this country is 336m euros. Inadmissible. Next, the most accident of young drivers happens in summer. A warning, weekends and nights, usually only with one vehicle. There are only 20% of young drivers in traffic at night, but they make up 50% of the dead. Furthermore, the risk of the death of an alcoholic young driver is 901 times the risk to a sober driver. Furthermore, in auto-schools it is often driven by day, at a speed of less than 40 kilometers per hour to a third degree of transfer, and when a driver's license is obtained it is then driven at multiple speeds. An effective training of the driver I was talking about can reduce the number of injuries from 20% to 70%. That warns us, and that's our responsibility. The new law is important, it will get support is not controversial, but it should certainly be pointed out that it will not only be the law that solves all the problems we face but will have to be used by all possible means and efforts to achieve better quality and better results. Without further investment in the development of a culture of safe driving in Croatia, unfortunately we will not be able to significantly reduce these warning and tragic statistics. And I point out. New modern technologies that are particularly important and are related to driving simulators allow for significant reduction of suffering, allow for safe, quality and economic adoption of a risk-free culture and are therefore extremely important. These are technologies that are well affirmed in aviation, military aviation, etc. A few statistics show that it must be taken seriously. For example, a public carrier in New York City has reduced the number of accidents by 35%. San Diego police, Montral, San Antonio, down to 70%. American second carrier in another city 22%. German army 19%. So they're in our mood for technology to equip our safety-driving centers. Here at the end, auto-schools in France today in 2004 are over 300 simulators, in the United States over six high school simulators. In Dutch 28 schools, in Belgium 34 schools, Texas, Singapore, etc. Finally, it is certainly full of support for this law, but it should only be accepted as a first step in solving the important and complex problem faced by this society. And certainly the last sentence. All those funds to be provided by an additional restrictive law should be used to invest in the equipment of such centres of safe driving, as it will benefit multiple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17858	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17859	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I, in this proposal for a road safety law, see a few important moments that I want to pay attention to and highlight them in these few minutes ahead of me. First are the reasons for the law. It is likely, in front of all the reasons, that almost without exception, we all participate in traffic in one way or another, so it is not surprising that the public is so interested. It's also a fact that people who participate in any kind of traffic get hurt. According to statistics provided by us, it is certain that in Croatia people in transport suffer more than is usual for countries of European orientation. We also have examples of countries much lagging behind European standards, the quality of roads or the state of the rolling stock such as our eastern neighbours of Serbia-Montenegro where the rate of death in transport is almost 100,000 inhabitants by a third lower than in Croatia. So there's something about road safety that's wrong with us. Our representative duty, not just professional, as they prepared this bill, to deal with this problem, to try to figure out the causes and create conditions for improving road safety. Because all citizens of this country, regardless of political, religious and any orientation, are equally involved in traffic. Furthermore, the bill's preamble did not present the results of the National Road Traffic Safety Programme in the Republic of Croatia in the period from 94 to 2000, so I will only present a few data for the sake of the illustration that the programme received. In the 1990s, a record loss in traffic was recorded in Croatia, a thousand 360 people killed. In addition, in 93, the Republic of Croatia was among the most traffic-resistant European countries with as many as 20 people killed in traffic accidents per 100,000 inhabitants. About 900 people died annually. The national road safety programme has been adopted and applied since 94. A thousand 360 people killed in 1990 or about 900 killed in 93 have been reduced to 655 deaths in 2000. Or from 20 people killed to 100,000 people in 93 have been reduced from 13.7 people killed to 100,000 in 2000. Then, in 2000, a new Law on Infractions is passed that coincides with statistics with a dramatic increase in the number of deaths in 2003 and in the first few months of this year. And since we were 90, we've only considered that we've lost 11,000 and 500 people. It is precisely because of this data that I see the need for urgent changes and the adoption of this Act which, hopefully, will affect the change in the behaviour of all those involved in traffic, especially those who are unconscious drivers who are in the most difficult way in breach of traffic regulations. I think we're all aware that there are drivers whose current fines are not an obstacle, that they repeat traffic violations repeatedly because they feel certain that using various legal options won't leave them without a driver's license. The cause of the car accident is a layered problem, and according to some data the most common causes of the accident are too fast, irregular overruns, alcohol consumption before driving, and only effective sanctioning the most common causes of the accident can stop this black balance on our roads. Many of the MPs referred to one of the 314 articles, as many as the Government's proposal for a road safety law. Of course, it is an article in 199 that speaks of blood alcohol spills. I am aware that some people have certain habits and that they are not alcoholics, for example, a glass or two of wine at lunch or something, and that they feel that someone is taking away their rights. But I'm also sure that all of us here know that alcohol affects different people in different ways. Or that every organism is not equally intolerant to alcohol. And who would be the one who would take the risk of assessing who, for example, half a liter of beer reduces the ability to drive, and who, not when we know it's proven that even the smallest amount of alcohol reduces people's reflexes. For those families who lost a loved one in a car accident committed by an alcoholic driver, but also that family whose alcoholic driver was part of it, and 0.01 promil alcohol was 0.01 promil too. It's the thought that's the only thing on my mind when we're talking about allowed alcohol spills in the blood, and I think this law should send a clear message, when you drink, not drive, not drink as some MPs have tried to say. I would also refer to the part that is brought to the mandatory wearing of bicycle helmets up to 16 years old, which I personally support, and I hope that parents will influence their children as much as possible to comply with this Law. Dear colleague Lucin made one recommendation that the helmet be worn only on fast roads, for example, but not on neighborhoods. I agree with this proposal in principle, but in some future time when traffic culture on our roads gets a little bigger and some individuals don't drive in populated areas and neighborhoods like they're on fast roads or even highways. So until recently, I didn't even know how fast you could drive in reverse until I had a chance to see it in front of my building. And also, well, there should be noted that there is a need for greater space near residential facilities that will be designed for children, such as parks, playgrounds and cycling trails. We also heard that some MPs think that fines are drastic, high, that, in terms of road safety, they will not have an effect but a charge of the state budget or that they will not be able to be paid. I don't agree with them here. I agree with my colleague, Stazic, who said they are not too high, not only because they will not have to pay if they are not made. But not only because of that, but because I believe that these high penalties will have the effect of the same effect that we have on us when we find ourselves in some other European countries that have penalties that are rarely much, much more than they would, which are predicted by this Law. So we automatically adapt to all the regulations of that country, normally, so that we don't get into a situation where we have to pay such high fines. And finally, also, the reason for the adoption of this Law is the reason why our legislation is harmonised with the legislation of the countries of the European Union. It's our commitment that we've taken and it needs to be fulfilled, normally. I am not going to go into further detail on the specific items of the bill, but in general, I consider the proposed law to contain measures of preventive and criminal policy that should be introduced to change the behaviour of unconscious drivers, but all other unconscious road users. I believe this Law is very good, but indeed it will be good in the right sense when it is applied and in the way it is applied. It makes me so happy, and I think it'll get us back on track when we talk about road safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17860	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Anto Djapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17861	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing an important topic, the security of traffic, and this is why we again express our dissatisfaction with the urgent, urgent procedure, because we believe that the debate so far, and the one that will follow, is talking about how comprehensive this issue is, and we have had the opportunity in similar debates in the previous Parliament's meeting, to see that this is an almost inexhaustible topic that requires full involvement of all political and not only political entities in the political life of Croatia, but also professions and all those to which this issue applies. In fact, we hold that it would be much better if we had discussed this Law in our first reading so that by autumn, we could have it with all the comments, suggestions and arguments that have been made, which will be presented, which could have adopted a more quality bill proposal, although it will certainly not solve the accumulated problems regarding traffic security in itself. In fact, Croatia's policy has one, I dare say, is a lack of fertilization in certain situations, so we often have ad hoc reactions to certain situations. So when it comes to traffic safety, the fact that in the past few months an increased number of victims on Croatian roads has simply forced the government to react. And then she has no other way of reacting if she wanted to react quickly than clearly by law, and we keep that and the existing Law with all its faults could balance those problems if this Law was better and better implemented. And neither the existing Law nor the one proposed virtually enters into the essence of the problem of traffic security which Mr. Pejo Trčević spoke on behalf of the Club, which unfortunately we have not received any answers from the ministry responsible for this. In particular, I think of the Ministry of the Interior, because on direct questions about what the Ministry is going to do about this Law on prevention and education we have not received an answer, we may be able to get a reply to this question, because we cannot transfer all traffic safety exclusively to subjective factors, there are a number of objective reasons which also lead to the traffic accidents that we have in Croatia. Here we have heard debates that compare Croatia with the European Union, and we need to know that Croatia has certain specificities, Croatia is a large construction site of highways that... can be opened when they are not fully completed, which also leads to a high level of road safety risk. And this bill will remain unfortunately remembered in Croatia by this story as to whether the alcohol level in the blood should be allowed 0.5 prominence or 0 prominence, I say it from the position of the driver who never drinks and I must say that when you already knew that this provision that is the most public interest, I would say Parliament in some way shares even though no one is against traffic safety, although we all advocate the same goal, that it had to be a quality and good preparation of the Ministry to do an analysis, not to say simulation, so an analysis of the traffic accidents for which the perpetrators of drivers who had up to 0,5 alcohol spills in blood so that they could then defend the attempt to introduce this provision into the Transport Safety Act. Just before, counterpart Nakic said that the smallest traces of alcohol slow down and make reflexes and movements more difficult, however, according to this logic, it would be good to consult the profession, so doctors, medics, nutritionists and others, that even a plentiful meal could slow down movements and reflexes as well as minimal alcohol consumption. I clearly stress as a driver who never drinks, yet I believe that the practice so far, I would say, and the tradition of up to 0.5 prominence is not what is crucial in the problems of safety in Croatian transport, but I would say, I would point out that on behalf of the Club it is a prevention and education that is not covered by this Law, because the fact is that a large percentage of the number of traffic accidents are involved and freight vehicles in Croatia, and Mr. Trčević spoke on behalf of the Club in that they are contradictory often us and the laws... traffic safety is precisely because for a certain category of vehicles it would have to be determined competence in the driver and that is actually that acidic apple which, until now, even the Croatian Parliament has no power for the Greeks to begin to solve in the root, and not only from the situation, from the situation larger or smaller situation on Croatian traffic, to go with such laws as can's objectively not be done. I am not running, I am not against being high sentences, order can also be achieved by penalties, but we hold that everyone has to do their job better and better than before, let's say we know in Croatia there are many black spots and when we know that they exist, let's say the national road number 1 is the road of death in Croatia, so that move from Karlovac, via Tušilovic to Slunj. So we know where the problems are then there should be stronger work by competent institutions, above all by the ministry, road repairs. On the other hand, and the condition of our roads is particularly, especially these secondary road cars, it is a special story but the roads are not in the best condition according to this, it would not be good if all the problems of traffic safety in Croatia were exclusively sought by the culprits in the subjective factor. Therefore, another fact that a large number of accidents have been increased should be stressed, so the number of accidents in Croatia is at an end of the season, and many of them are participants in these car accidents and foreigners in Croatia, so foreign tourists. So there were several days in a row were media reports saying that practically in each of the roads that occurred, traffic accidents that participants were also foreign tourists. Therefore, I think it is also one of the factors that should be taken into account when we talk about, I would say, the radicalisation of the penalties proposed by these amendments and the measures that are to be taken. Therefore, the stricter implementation of the law, regardless of whether it will be adopted in such a proposal as it is, strengthens control at the black spots in Croatia that exist. The more intensive work of responsible road safety institutions, so road repairs, road markings, road signalling, these are all things that do not bear responsibility and drivers, the driver in Croatia has an extremely large and certain amount of experience when looking at this debate they can't take the impression that the law is to a good degree I won't say against them, but that it is in such a way conjectured that it is exclusively based on the conscience of the driver, on their behaviour, and that they are practically washing their hands from the responsibility of those who have, therefore not only the MUP, but not only the traffic police but must have all those institutions that are related to Croatian traffic. That's why we in Croatia are strangers to the rights about this reserved, not to say that we will not vote for this, we will see whether our amendments will be accepted, we have four amendments that we will say later, other colleagues who have applied for the debate but it would be more than important for us in the party, in the Club, to hear the answers to our objections about that this Law has not affected the problem of education, the problem of prevention, so this national strategy for transport security. It has to have a stronger promotion, there have been these attempts before, and there is something today, but it's all fragmentary in the tracks, there should be a wide education of all, therefore much more work, not only with penalties, although I'm not running away from having harsh penalties, because one lost young or old human life cannot be compensated with any financial means, and in this direction we support the debate on this law as part of the debate and part of the fight against insecurity in traffic, but I would also like to go into a deeper analysis of the problem and I would say about education, and prevention that is not the case neither with this Law, and in this direction we are not pleased to repeat, which is the Law by urgent procedure instead of going into regular reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17862	Thank you very much. Replica Vice President Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17863	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I've just taken a replica among other things to support my distinguished colleague Djapic in a request that this law would be far better to go in two readings, not an emergency procedure. One of the reasons I will now present in this replica is the question of the imbalance of the penalties that have now been given in it. For example, Article 199 of this Law provides that a person with up to 0,5 alcohol should be punished with 500 to 1500 kuna and with a possible one point, but that is not all. Article 285 provides that a driver's license is to be withdrawn and excluded from traffic, that's something else. Therefore, it is quite clear that this is not a mutually coordinated part. I must also say that I am totally inadmissible from the manipulation of certain provisions concerning criminal penalty parts, for example, 300 kuna, will be punished by the pedestrian in Article 129, which is not carefully and in the shortest way since it is convinced that it can cross the stake. Now, what's the shortest way, what's careful, etc. who assesses it and punishes 300 kuna. You also have a very interesting situation that will be punished by a person with 300 kuna if he does not have, say, a helmet or a protective helmet on his head on a bike that is also a question of children, i.e. the punishment of parents. A similar situation for driving under the lights during the day. In addition, for example, you work in Article 130, where 400 kuna is fined for a violation of the sand that does not act by order, but referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2. Then let's just say you have a lot of interesting provisions about penalties that are related to something that is totally unacceptable to me, I think are mild penalties. For example, in Articles 263 and 264, where the minimum penalty is expected to be 4 thousand kunas, a legal person will be punished for failing to comply with the rules of the technical examination, and the responsible person from a thousand to 5,000 kuna, that is absurd. Be careful, that there will be more punishment for a responsible person than a legal person who has to provide all the conditions for this. Look, these are things that should be examined and coordinated until the second reading, and therefore these are reasons for a second reading, regardless of some good solutions that need to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17864	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. He's gone. He lost his order. Then Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. And there it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17865	Dear Mr. Vice President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Let me begin by pointing out that it is as rare in which case a bill that regulates or should help solve the almost alarming situation that we have witnessed in particular lately. The kind of matter in which there are no uninterested. There is almost no one who is not in the most direct way related to the road safety issue. Simply as a driver, as a passenger, on foot or a traffic participant in any other way, as a parent or simply as one of the many concerned persons who have been looking forward to every information show lately as someone gets closer to her on the road. In Croatia, they literally die on roads. The accident is getting more and more, the consequences are getting more tragic. Our country, as we know, is being threatened by a demographic disaster for a whole series of reasons that have been spoken about in this assembly so far, but what is happening on the roads and the trend that marks the first six months of this year is unacceptable. In fact, I don't think that this bill, that any normative act, no matter who brings it or how it brings it suddenly overnight, will solve the issue of road safety. But what I'm going to stand for, and here I'm going to say a few words about it is, the system, means comprehensive, comprehensive and professional thinking, and then perhaps the most important implementation of a consistent and credible long-term policy on this issue. And that's not just this bill that I'm going to support, but first of all, it's in my opinion about young people, those of whom and why I'm most often special, and I want to say something. These are people from 18 to 24 years old and about 300 thousand of them in Croatia, about 80% of them have a driver's license, and in car accidents with people killed, the age group is represented by a frightening 25%. One quarter of the dead are just young people. And I don't think it's necessary to present any further figures from statistical data in order to convince anyone that these young drivers necessarily need help, and some of the measures are also in this law. And something else about young drivers, so people who are special value and have to be the subject of special care of the state. Discussing these matters is unnecessary, whether it is some kind of restriction on their personal or some such non-freedom when it comes to the measures that they are trying to protect and, as a rule, from themselves. Because in their deaths, there is nothing more to talk about than tragedy, and they necessarily require that all possible measures be taken. A special story is a natural way of implementing the i.e. the applicability of these legislative proposals. ... Since there is no such legal text, unfortunately, because it would be extremely easy, which only by its legal and traffic expertise will solve the problem, and at least when young and naturally impatient people are concerned. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's there, then, is the system and the integrity that we don't have. Education, education, transport culture. Why, for example, in kindergartens, our children would not have the obligation to master the basic knowledge of traffic. Why wouldn't the basics have a mandatory object from the framework of transport culture throughout their education to a much greater extent than so far? And why isn't that important and necessary? Of course, I am fully aware that learning education preventative action is a systematic and continuous education at all levels of transport culture is not the result that we will see tomorrow, but there is no law that will without it address the issue of road safety in the long and quality way and reduce this tragedy that is happening to us. Two more notes for the end. This road safety law is being passed because of us, unfortunately offered by defeating reality. But primarily because of us, because of the fact that in a few years, if we don't do something as good and consistent as we've already had the opportunity to hear it, we're going to know that we've lost more people in car accidents than in the Homeland War. And secondly, in most cases, it has not been just so far that the only problem was in such a law and the solutions that it foresees. The problem was in use. So, as usual in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17866	Thank you very much, Mr. Perica Bukic. And now Mr. Mato Stimac's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17867	Mr. Vice President, members of the government, colleagues3 and colleagues. Since the application of certain measures prescribed by the Law of 96, such as the introduction of penalty points, more severe penalties for the harsh violation of traffic rules with the possibility of withdrawing a driving licence at the scene of the infringement, changing the knowledge of traffic rules, and others have seen a significant improvement in road safety. Thus, the number of 975 people killed in car accidents in 92 was reduced to 627 people killed in 2002. Despite the increase in the number of traffic accidents, there was a reduction in the number of people killed and seriously injured. However, there was a deterioration in road safety in 2003 as seen in the increase in the number of people killed and injured. The following problems are constantly present during the observed period. The increase in the number of road users affected by alcohol accidents, the proportion of road users killed in alcohol accidents, the inappropriate rate of loss of young drivers, the increase in the number of drivers without a driving test, the participation in road traffic of drivers with unregistered or unscathed motor vehicles. And of course the government had to respond after all this with a proposal for a new law. I would like to point out that this law we have ahead of us is not aimed at drivers and citizens who respect the law, but has been done on the contrary to increase their safety in transport and to reduce the loss of innocent people. In the Proposal for a Law on Road Safety against the provisions of the current law, the following paper is most important, I will list some, it is special attention to the young drivers from 18 to 20 years old, who now suffer largely in traffic accidents. For young drivers, speed is limited, driving a car of more than 75 kilowatts is prohibited, and driving bans from 23 to 5 hours without escorts. The material provisions of the current text of the law have been corrected and supplemented, so that they are more understandable and clear with a view to greater efficiency for transport safety. Oversight of the work of car schools and driving exams is transferred to the MUP. In the future, driving tests will be carried out at the test centres designated by the MIP where the driver’s licence will be issued. A ban shall be imposed on the use of mobile phones for drivers at the time of driving, and a complete ban shall be imposed on the proportion of alcohol in the body when operated by the vehicle. And the penalty is measured from only fines to maximum penalties provided for by law. I would like to say a few words about the situation in my county of Virovitica-Podravska where we have indications that, compared to 2002, alcohol participation in car accidents was 22% while in January, May 2004, it fell to 19% and now what is most interesting. The participation of freight cars in transport accidents in 2003 was 8% in 2002 and in January, this year 56%, car van 50%, while in 2003 there were only 28 and connected vehicles in 2003 compared to 2002. 24% while in the first five months of this year it's 46.9, it means 47%. These indicators show a 7.8% increase in traffic accidents in 2003 compared to 2002. The increase in the first five months of 2004 for the past year is 22.9%. The higher number of traffic accidents in the first five months of 2004 can certainly be attributed to a significantly higher number of participations in car drivers whose number of road accidents was increased in our county by 56.9%, while in 2003 the number was only 8.2% higher. By increasing the participation of freight vehicles in traffic accidents, the number of vehicles involved in traffic accidents has been increased, thus increasing the number of those vehicles in the first five months of 2004 by 46.9 compared to the same period in 2003. It can be concluded from all of these indicators that traffic in Slavonia has seen an increase in participation in the transport of freight and connected vehicles resulting in an increase in the number of traffic accidents and victims. The contribution is also to increase the destruction of roads in Slavonia, which must be renewed at the expense of taxpayers. The Podravska highway passes through the settlements and through the narrow centers of municipalities and cities. A large number of cargo vehicles create more and more traffic jams and certainly reduces traffic safety. Mr. Minister, not only you but also Minister Calmett and the Government ask you on behalf of the people of Slavonia and Baranja what you intend to do to remove from the Podravska highway freight vehicles from Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Bosnia and Herzegovina. This would certainly contribute to greater traffic security in Slavonia, with this law being passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17868	I'd like to thank Mr. Mother Schimtz. Now he has the word Mr. Mato Arlovic, vice president of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17869	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister! Let us, of course, let some of the solutions and concepts of the law itself as a transitional phase actually support, although I personally think that it is a real shame that this bill does not go into two readings, first of all for reasons educational because it is clear and it cannot be accepted that the debate in the past assembly, one general and one in the first reading, in order for this to be a reason for the public to be sufficiently familiar. The public is not sufficiently familiar with neither the form nor the types of punishment nor the regulation of certain measures. And the second reason is that it's just educational for people to get better. The third reason is a large number of MPs who will have to raise their hand for these solutions or some other depending on the amendments that will be accepted or not accepted are here for the first time and are brand new in the Assembly Hall and it would take them a lot more time to make such a serious, quality law and law regarding a large number of citizens can... The fourth reason is very important, and that is that this law is unfortunately, although it is formally harmonised with some documents, it is not in line with the concept of the European Union that I spoke of in one of the replicas and the European Union has simply left a solution to its first programme and now accepts a system that includes activity and people, the change of infrastructure, the diversity of vehicle and the way of technical and technological equipment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some of it is a little covered around the roads, about signalling, etc. but not until the end. The fifth reason that also points out that, in principle, it would be necessary for this to be in two readings are among other things the United Nations documents. I would like to remind you that in 2003 a special resolution on the global crisis on the transport security of the United Nations was adopted, that the General Assembly subsequently adopted a special report by the General Assembly on the fact that the Commission, the Economic Commission of the United Nations discussed it in particular, etc. and that these are quite, quite serious issues and one of these issues as a cause of insecurity in transport is among other things so-called. aggressive driving. Now, these issues are unfortunately touched, some of the forms of aggressive driving are covered but not all of them, starting from passing, going around, starting at entering red lights, signals, intersections, and all of these are not fully worked out, and all of this really points to the need for this issue to be taken into account. Now let some of the more principled things that I don't think are well covered include both administrative and judicial aspects. It is impossible for such differences to exist in criminal sanctions or measures that can be pronounced in relation to pedestrians via drivers to, say, the end line of authorised companies to carry out, for example, technical inspection cells, etc. and authorized persons within them. It's simply disparities such that it can't be kept that way. For example, it is impossible to punish, among other things, in accordance with Article 256 of the fine of 300 kuna because it did not stick that label to a technical examination. That doesn't have to be at all. It is important that the technical examination is done because it is legally prescribed that the vehicle must, if two years old after two years of age, go for a technical examination and otherwise every year thereafter. Therefore, he simply can't be registered if he hasn't passed a technical examination... For years, there's no need for that sticker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for which now to put fines of 300 kuna, it only causes dissatisfaction of citizens and everything else. These are things that have to be avoided. Of course, it is particularly interesting that these penalties provide for other penalties. I have shown an example in 199 relating to 0.5 alcohol in blood and a fine of 500 kuna to 1,000 kuna, but at the same time you have in a special part of the law at the end of the provision that nicely points out that an authorised authority or police officer can simply take away that person, only a police officer will temporarily withdraw the driver’s license and exclude from the traffic of a driver, a driving instructor who manages the vehicle and now says from Article 199 that he has any alcohol on him. See, that's an extra penalty. It is not a penalty that is only 500 kuna and a thousand thousand kunas and therefore the fine of 0.5% is a completely different measure and form than just regulation in the very text of the law when this part is watched. Now, it's a particular issue from the point of view of the judiciary. You know, that a cop can take action and sentence up to 30 days of taking action. The question of the legal certainty of transport participants is raised, especially when it is seen from the point of view and that it can be excluded from traffic and still withdraw the licence, vehicle, etc., so in general when the issue is being observed. The third question I would very much like to raise is about this particular question of young drivers. You know, there's no doubt that you need to limit or speed for young drivers, and when I say, I don't mean by age, but by the time he passed the exam. There's no question for me whether it's necessary to limit the force of the vehicle that he drives and controls. I don't even have that objection to the fact that we should and certainly implement the safety-driving program in... Security centers at a certain time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's all to be done, but there's one thing that's lying to me right now that's completely inappropriate. Five years from the start of the safety driving programme, i.e. 1.1.2007, instructors must pass the driving safety programme within five years. And what about these young drivers, when they'll get their turn in the first place. Look, in a situation like this, and the question is, why would something under the law be stricter regulated for a driver than the instructor himself who has to train that driver? It's absurd. In particular, it is a very interesting solution that has clearly proved to have been met. You know, a little instructors, for example, who don't meet school supplies, they've been given a three-year transition period, which basically means she can finish high school one more time. You know. I think they're some of those things, and they train those young drivers. Now the particular question that opens in that section is this 25-year-old question that must have a person after 23 hours to 5 a.m. if young people are driving. Look at the perverse question that is a constitutional question because it's about the adult who passed the exam and has the right to drive, a special question is being raised and what is actually done. Is it for the safety of young drivers if you consider all the additional restrictions on strength, speed, alcohol, I don't know, passed the exam, the safety driving program, etc., in the situation or is it... I ask such a question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because actually which parents have the ability to do so if they work and have an older, son or daughter in the family can take the time to go from 23 to 5 in the morning with their child for a ride to ensure that the legal obligation is fulfilled. In other words, he'll have to pay for his driving instructor. If there is no money to pay for a driving instructor who will at that time spends or is not available to the instructor... that I can do it and what's gonna happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then the one who was driving out of fear won't be able to drive and we'll still get in a situation to keep a young driver on time and again. The question arises, in fact, that the problem is not finally solved. Either you need to give it up because it is inconclusive, unreal, or you need to find some other quality solution by my deep conviction if all of these other restrictions remain on him or on that vehicle, every vehicle that such a young driver drives should put a special mark on "watch out, young driver" and then these 25 years and this person, completely then excessively and needlessly. Now there's one question because of the time that... It goes, 10 minutes is very little when it comes to these things, but to speak, which I must say clearly to warn the promoter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 311, 304, etc. Law enforcement is unsustainable. Among other things, they say 311. Ministers and other duties authorised by the decision-making law and regulations will adopt them within 3 months of the entry into force of this Act. For example, authorised organisations under Article 308 of Articles 206 and 273 shall be obliged to comply with this law within 3 months of the implementing rules. Watch out, there are a whole series of implementing rules that ministers have to bring and there are about 40 of them. In fact, they condition what implementing regulations will be imposed by authorised organisations, technical inspection stations, I don't know, Croatian Vehicle Centre, Croatian Autoclub, etc., because they simply cannot implement the law themselves because they often refer to certain provisions in the implementing acts. It should therefore be pointed out that within 3 months of the adoption of the implementing rules to be adopted by the ministers, these general acts of those organisations should be harmonised in order to address the issue in a quality manner. Otherwise, it will neither be possible to resolve the issue in quality, nor will it be properly resolved. And the last thing I'd like to warn you about is some powers like measures of punishment that in global terms, as a principle remark, are usually based on the minimum penalty paid that much and so much. No upper limit of the sentence has been set. First, it enables volunteering and subjectivism of the authority applying the penalty and second, the issue of constitutionality and the prescribed penalties and of the one to whom it will exercise and give penalties on that basis is raised. So, one thing we should say is that it's at least that big, but we have to say how big it is. Be careful because otherwise, these are tremendously large penalties compared to those we have so far and my fundamental observation is that the current Law is not as bad as the big problem in its application and not in its normisation. And for that reason, I suggest that the Proposer reconsiders that he is actually going into another reading and that he also uses these comments from this debate for a second reading to get one quality proposal for another reading at the 9th month and bring it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17870	Thank you very much now, Mr. Velimir Dance has the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17871	Thank you very much. I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Unfortunately, the law is, and even when it comes to good laws, it's just a presumption of the realisation of those laws. The realisation, however, speaks of their quality. When I talk here about a concrete legislative proposal, then I want to say that this is a good legal proposal. I have to mention this, especially if most colleagues already mentioned it cannot be avoided without repeating and saying it again. In traffic, children and young people often suffer too often, at pedestrian crossings as they leave school on bicycles as they ride to the playground crossing the road, at poorly marked intersections with railway tracks, driving cars at night, returning from a party or from a disco club. In those things that happen on our roads, an ideal combination of speed and alcohol really needed to do something that I think we have received from this bill that we are discussing today. Given that speed is the main cause of accidents with severe consequences, I will also refer to the provisions that apply to it. I support the increase in penalties for violations because I do not consider this a punishment, especially not too much punishment, but prevention, or the protection of human lives, and it should be rigorous. That this is the case and that unfortunately most drivers and road users are really afraid of high penalties shows the case of all of us who have gone and gone on the roads to Slovenia and Austria. Most of us have to recognise traffic users in Croatia driving at least 30 km more than the average allowed on certain highways, however, by crossing the border it is very careful and comes into those frames that are then set up and the train is exactly by the regulations. I think that's why it's only one and that's the fear of the Slovenian and Austrian police and of these rigorous penalties. That this is also the case for traffic participants to act in a manner that allows them to conduct specific penalties in certain countries. Because when you see on our roads especially now at this time tourist season drivers from Slovenia with Slovenian license plates then we are just witnessing that they are most often breaking regulations in our country and in their country are driving very well according to regulations. In this case, I would like to ask a few specific questions to be asked by the Minister and the representatives of the police who I think may need to be considered when the law is passed, to see if it is possible to think about them, if not, then I am convinced that it will be necessary to amend them by the end of this year and to amend this Law very quickly. First of all, I would like to point out one fact which is stated in Article 5, which is the transfer of individual powers to local self-government units. Is it very good to transfer all these powers to units of local self-government because, at the same time, the powers to carry out the infringement in the first degree should also be changed, and this would, in my view, mean an additional amendment to the positive legal rules. I would really like to see whether, especially with those provisions in Article 5 where it is said that units of local self-government can organise the collection of fines, the relation of those directors who receive certain powers and cannot carry out this infringement procedure. The second thing, when we talked about it, the minister also talked about his introduction of compliance with European laws. I agree that this is largely in line with the legislation in Europe. But in the countries of Europe, unlike us, a scooter or a mop will be difficult to see in front of primary schools. Or in front of high schools because, fortunately, the 14-year-old scooter-driving provision is now really moved to 16, so we may not be able to see them in front of primary schools anymore. But we really should examine the provisions on how the biggest cubic motors can be managed only by those over 21 years of age, such as in Europe, while with us and under this law, they will be able to manage those who are 18 years old, and I think that these and most often suffer with these powerful engines in car accidents. It is also possible to reconsider the decision that remains in this Act, which is that under that category A1 can be managed means that these scooters, or engines, are weaker cubics than 16 years of age, while in Europe there is no age limit but it is the same 18 years old. Finally, I think it is also necessary to mention here the fact that many colleagues in previous discussions have also pointed out, which is a kind of triangle. Drivers, vehicles and roads. All the blame for the car accidents is mostly on our drivers, and in general, one of them was created, a picture of all the drivers being guilty. There's always some reason for that, and police statistics even say that in 97% of the cases are drivers who are guilty. In Germany, say, that percentage is about 60%. So I think that both vehicles and drivers and roads are the category or the triangle that has to be watched together to see if it's really just the driver's fault. And in conclusion, I would like to say one thing that has rarely been said today, and I am particularly pleased that this Law has accepted two amendments, which I have submitted in that second reading of the Road Safety Act, which refers to HAK and the Vehicle Center. Indeed, the time has finally come for these professional organisations, meaning to HAK and the Centre for Vehicles, however, to restrict certain powers, above all I am referring to the powers of supervision because there was an illogical solution in the previous law where it was predicted that citizens' associations could also control companies, but also to bring some regulations which, in any case, by looking at HAK for driver exams, were very, very questionable as regards the Centre for Vehicles. I'll finally conclude that if this law I'm convinced will be passed we can reduce that page, the black chronicle by 10% as to cases of various deaths and serious injuries on our roads, we've done a lot, and that's why we need to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17872	Thank you, dear fellow Pesha. A replica of a colleague of the Korenika, a replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that, for the governments of HDZ, the Law on the Croatian Autoclub was passed, and the Law on the Croatian Red Cross, which are citizens' associations, and some still have public authority after the adoption of this Act. So it seems inappropriate now to object to something that is the most normal thing in the whole civilized world. Let us not forget that in one Germany whose legislation is much more difficult because we often have a German legislative model, as well as ADAC and some other citizens' associations have public powers and control certain things that are of vital interest to any country. Only if we have, after all, and here it was specifically said about the Vehicle Center, dear colleague Plesa and the Vehicle Center went to privatization according to that model from the 1991 law. HDZ has given it, promoted it, but if the Centre for Vehicles works correctly and in accordance with the public powers that the state has given it or given it, so does the Croatian Auto Club, so does some other citizens' associations. I remind you that we have the Croatian Hunting Union, the Croatian Sports and Fisheries Union, which also have public authority and we cannot say in one segment that we cannot do this to the citizens' associations, and in another as it suits us, perhaps even daily-politically that it does not fit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17874	The answer to my colleague's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17875	Dear colleague of the Koreans! You and I know very well that such a Law on Associations of Citizens or the Centre for Vehicles and the HAK was passed during, as you said the HDZ Government, the one before 2000. However, it does not mean that everything that has been brought before and during that time is good. So I just said that I personally asked when he was at the debate of the Law on Amendments and Law Supplements in the previous Parliament to change it and to make it impossible for these associations to do what I think is not good, and so said many others in that debate. And we also know that not because of the daily political reasons but because of the protection of certain political powers, it was impossible to discuss the amendment at all, and we even have information about what you know very well that it may have been the reason that this reason was not brought when it was due to be brought to the 30th session, but that it was moved for some third reading that had never been welcomed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17876	Correction of the incorrect quote by the esteemed colleague Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17877	So I want to correct the incorrect assumption that I can no longer quote precisely, here in any case it consisted in the fact that citizens' associations could not exercise public authority, but in this particular case, the HAK. The whole sense of the development of civil society and the very direction that goes and the west is exactly that. To associations of citizens who, especially since the HAC and an association that is qualified for professional supervision, perform such functions. There's no point in what's happening right now, for example, that we're going back so that the auto-schools aren't being supervised by the Ministry of Education, but they're being done by the Ministry of the Interior and so on. We're moving retrograde now, and I don't know what that was supposed to do because it has nothing to do with the safety of traffic on, on the roads. Nothing at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17878	It's not an opinion and correction of an incorrect quote, I just have to tell my colleagues that because of the public, it's not about denying public authority. Professional organizations retain under this Act and direct and indirect public powers which can get one direct by force of the law, one they got on the basis of the competition, and what you were talking about, at least I realized it was actually surveillance and here the supervision of the legality of the work that is true, it... the work of the national authority, and supervision, professional surveillance of work, may continue to be carried out by the professional organisations referred to in Article 206 and not to list which all related to the Centre for Vehicles, but this is the second debate. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I ask you for the public to be more specific to each other because it has an important impact on the public's mood. Dear colleague Ante Markov has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17879	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The very interest of the public, not only today but in the past 10 days, but also the attempts of media imposing such or such views in terms of what was wanted to be defended or what was intended to be challenged, is certainly an indicator of the seriousness and the importance of this Law, and the sense that the public wants to communicate fully with this House in terms of debate and the presentation of the position as well as the overall concern that this very important topic, which is simply important for all of them, were not those participants in traffic. It is simply universal as is today a very correct thesis that the car is not a luxury but in some way a need is so this Law has come out in some way from all borders and it has become universal and unfortunately and universal threat in some way to all of us who are facing each other. Or whoever we're involved in in any way. As a result, different evaluations and some lack of very clear and precise formulations during the identification. Not all of them support the tendency of this Law, namely, that we are all aimed at raising traffic safety to the level where victims would be burned to prevent those accidents from being by human means by material means were those after morning nervousness, as counterpart Jarnjak says. Anyway, there's no one who's not connected to this subject. The thing in which you're pollemized or being brought into question in one way or another was also the same when you're discussing this law, I think I've been there for a year and a half when an identical topic was discussed and there were really different views. Whether there was a lack of courage at the time or not enough of any arguments, or simply there was such a moment in which it was not intended to fully implement the possible positive side of this traffic safety law on the roads. It's hard to judge today. However, those who have express tents in view of the great interest of the public are obviously silenced and then try to resolve this matter in a way that is not possible for those who listen carefully to these discussions as to the difference between the proposals. Which is the difference between the opposition and the position. In fact, very small and vague shades create a picture, and it often happens especially from those who look at us and listen that they don't actually know whether this law is in nature encouraged or in a fine way trying to create an alibi not to bring it at all. And if there's any important differences why they don't make a clear statement. Why don't they be told, what's going to bother you, I'll tell them about trying to take it out. Well, if I get into trouble with that, I'm probably going to try to help the proposer in that way. It is unquestionable for all of us in transport that it is necessary to solve the problems arising from this poor statistics that are here and given in the bill of law. Of course, everything needs to be taken care of, and above all, of the application of the law. We have a whole series of laws that we have good as solutions and bad as the results of the application of these laws. We have a law on banning alcohol from under 18 years old, just one example. If we went today to conduct a survey or a very serious analysis of how this law is handled, which may still have something to do with what we are discussing, we would see that this Law is better to be abolished. Because if we don't, then we put ourselves in front of a mockery. Because with that law, everyone in this country is making fun of. Namely, no one's using it. Because today, of course, it's no problem to buy cigarettes or buy alcohol to people who can't. So as a system we must primarily act preventively, and the greatest value of all these laws is a special law on the security of road traffic safety legislation. Workin' ahead. Restrictive punishment is only due to failure of preventive action. That's why I think we're talking about Portugal as the country that is the most eclatant of all who have the highest number of people killed and killed on the roads. There was a TV show that spoke in this sense, this large educational preventive action being carried out in all Portuguese cities, in which, within the framework of institutions and extra-institutional organisations, major educational actions were carried out to ensure that the new law adopted was implemented for one day. Try to get the citizens closer as soon as possible so they can see what the new one is compared to the old law. What are the consequences of bad habits that are the consequences of misbehaving on roads. Of course I don't want to say that drivers are the sole culprits they're one of the traffickers and they're usually perceived as such. But clear and bad roads. And bad road markings. And all those other elements that can affect that are equally important. However, what I would like to say and indirectly refers to this law, that we must as a country of tourism, and that we all think so and so we all do, that we are a tourist country, and in this sense we must lead one objective restriction, and in terms of those rules that regulate not only our security, but one general security, and finally one universal right, which we all our guests who enter Croatia in some way pass on. Our guests, Croatia would be one of the few destinations where the rate would be 00. In this case, the majority of tourists coming from different destinations would in some way be brought into one doubt, and apparently one competitive maneuver would be reduced in view of the fact that most of the emotional countries that come to our coast belong to those countries where the level is allowed to be slightly higher. Whether it's 0.5 or 08. But I think that in this aspect too, we must take into account and break-in in the middle of the tourist season, which, by its character and content, has certain problems, can act counterstimulatively. As well as the mandatory deposit that citizens were supposed to have to enter Croatia. All of this can be done in one promiscuous sense and, unfortunately, Croatia can often and when it comes to the age of law, media particularly competitive countries know how to use it for their propaganda. And thus suggesting Croatia gives exactly what it should be in them and not in us. That is, citing it as a reason not to go to Croatia. So, with the fact that we have too little fun, that we have too little opportunity for guests to relax and relax, when we're even burdened with alcohol being 0.0% means we can't drink a single decilitre of wine, I think it'll make our position even more difficult. as well as Croatia's position as one of the most famous European destinations for tourism. I think no matter how far this topic has not been touched directly by the law, it must ultimately be taken into account. I was hoping first of all that it would be possible, not that I would, and that the amendment would be adopted, in that sense, given a certain amendment. As for units of local self-government and relying on part of the law to regulate it, I think that's a lot of areas that haven't given good results so far. There have always been problems when part of certain laws has been transferred to local self-government units either on the Law on Spatial Planning or now on the Road Safety Act. For the simple reason that units of local self-government are already overloaded, with their own volume of work, and without sufficient resources to further implement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17880	Thank you very much, fellow Markov. We've got replicas first. Dear fellow Mršić Replic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17881	So I'd like to replicate my colleague Mark's thesis on the implementation of the ban on drinking to minors and the thesis that the law should be abolished. No, I think we should ask the State Inspectorate and the police to carry out what the law says. We in Koprivnica do so in cooperation, so, inspectorate, police and city headship, and we have even changed our decision to where alcohol pours to minors twice that we will shorten our working hours to these catering facilities. We here in the House as parliamentary deputies must not send a message that we tolerate violations of the law and because the law is being violated that it should be abolished or amended rather than send a message that the services that the citizens of this country are paying must be strictly implemented by those laws. It's unacceptable to pour alcohol to minors. We have initiated from Koprivnica an amendment to the Law on Shops that alcohol cannot be sold either in the retail store as cigarettes can't be, and not that they can buy alcohol at the store, so they go to the park or I don't know where they drink that alcohol. It is therefore necessary to strive to implement the laws strictly and in such a way to prevent socially undesirable behaviour, not to send a message from a pay phone, a pay phone because somewhere, I don't know where, but surely in Koprivnica it is not, it violates the law that it should therefore be abolished. There are services that citizens pay dearly and that need to implement this law and ensure that young people are not in a position to serve alcohol drinks both waiters and owners of catering facilities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17882	The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Markov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17883	My esteemed colleague got my intervention completely wrong. I did not say that it was good for the law to be abolished but I was saying that this law, which is older than the colleagues, has not been spent for a long time, and if only in Koprivnica in Croatia successfully and fully implements it, it is good, and here I would invite everyone if it was spent only in Koprivnica that everyone looked up to Koprivnica and that they were doing so. My appeal was that in this House we should insist simply, equally on the adoption of good laws as well as on the application of these good laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17884	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17885	Respecting the ancient logic I might have accepted, it might have been a good thing if it went into two law readings. But what makes me think otherwise? At the end of the week, about 10 people die in Croatia, every week, on the weekends. Some of them were killed, literally killed on the road. If a killer did that, it'd be mass murder, it'd be panic. Every week in Croatia, a dozen people are killed by a maniac. It's just that it's not one, it's a little more. So there will hardly be any educational methods that have their own reach. They have their own reach, but it really is a kind of almost terrorism. I travel every week from Split to Zagreb and from Zagreb to Split. The parents are already saying goodbye to us. Don't say goodbye to us, son. Don't do it by car. There is a certain psychosis that hangs on the road the sword of death higher the head of each and every one of us. It really needs to be stopped. In the first six months, therefore, he died, killing a class of children on Croatian roads. If we were to speak to some, let's say some B production films if we were to shoot then it would be called film every end of the week awesome or horror on Croatian roads at the end of the week, and the trip is Zagreb-Split or Split-Zagreb impossible mission, I don't know what number. So in such conditions where driving becomes a roulette and that Russian roulette we have to ask ourselves how to prevent it. Every jerk, every jerk, and I can't call them any other way, it's not hard to put that slipper down. So we really need to do something to keep this from happening. That's why I did it for strict penalties, which is why I think that method is not bad, almost all methods are exhausted, and we all know that we behave differently in the environment of neighbouring countries. It is a fact and therefore not diminishing this logic and not appealing that it may be extended to one of the two readings to avoid, to bring, etc. in the middle of the season. But it's really an alarming state, it's not a mere story, and here we all think, it seems to me, similarly, regardless of the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17886	Thank you very much. My colleague Mark's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17887	I would choose between prevention and real open view of life and this law and hysteria and panic that Marin manages to sow in such a short period of time, because if he speaks twice then fear will indeed prevail on our streets and roads, and I don't think it's necessary and neither is the purpose of this law. Because all of us who have spoken, I have warned myself in advance if I say a little differently that I will be thrown out by the critics of those who think this law should be spoken of in such a way that nothing is said. I thought, however, that we should speak clearly and clearly and that certain problems if there are, that they should have their real name and that it should be discussed. And the essence of what Marin was saying, and we all agree on that for God's sake, it's no doubt at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17888	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote now, dear colleague Lucin. Here's your colleague, Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17889	Thank you very much. Mr. Markov has otherwise repeated a thesis that is incorrect to me, and I've heard it several times this morning. So division to repression and prevention. I'd like you to understand one thing. The message this law carries with its repressive measures is a very good prevention. If you look at the statistics, you will see that in the period 2002, the 4th, 5th and 6th months when we discussed this law, the 3rd month of 2003, when we talked about this law the second time and talked about the severe sanctions, in fact, that the number of traffic accidents had fallen. I don't insist on staying only on repression as one part of the message and prevention, but they are. For every man who sits in his car will consider whether he will drink a cup if he loses his license or if he gives a thousand or two kunas. In this regard, however, it would be borne in mind that certain first-step solutions are either prevention or at least prevention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17890	Thank you, dear colleague Lucin. It is time for debate, dear colleague Mršić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17891	Honorable Vice President, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I think it might be good to think about changing the name of the law itself because it speaks not only about road safety but also about the safety law itself and the rules of movement on some other changes such as footsteps and cycling trails which are not an integral part of the road so it might be better to call the traffic safety law, for example, but it's so... more nature. What might have been good about the definitions themselves, I think, is that there is a little disagreement in the classification of roads, especially on local roads that are all set up in county roads, and according to the Law on Roads, they are not all county roads, so it might be good to look at the Roads Act as a multi-regular law and then prescribe from it the types of roads and the jurisdiction of roads and in this law. Each law prescribes some rules of conduct and prescribes penalties as to what will happen if you do not act as is prescribed in it, but not by any law, so it is not necessary to attach any meaning to this magic wand that it will now solve the problem that we were talking about here today, which is very alarming, and that is, therefore, that our roads are insecure. Our roads are insecure and our roads have great casualties, they have victims, so there are injured in life, there are great material damages. But when we talk about what's going on on the roads, then we transfer everything mostly to the drivers. We all say, you see, that's why drivers are guilty, so the drivers are guilty because maybe they drank a little more or drank a little bit, and they're guilty of maybe driving a little faster, or they're a little harder to squeeze the gas slipper. We haven't recently referred to the technical correctness of the vehicle today, and what I wasn't particularly saying today is the question of the road. In order for something to happen on the road at all, there must be a road. And then all these other actors are just coming. I ask myself this question, which is what my colleague from Virovitica has asked, which is what this Law will mean to me when thousands of skippers pass daily through Koprivnica, Turkish, Bulgarian, Serbian, Montenegrin, which are suspicious technical correctness because I do not believe that the technical examination in Bulgaria is equal to the technical examination in Croatia that does not have ecotec, I do not know, 4 such as some regulations in Croatia. So, all those big trucks avoiding the highway go almost through the center of Koprivnica. And what will this law mean for safety on those roads? For safety on the road, which was last paved 20 years ago, and then only here and there are patching holes. That's why I'd like to talk about this particular aspect of the resources, that is, the road, right. I would love to and would be much more pleased if in this law which I otherwise support, therefore, that the law defined which means the road in a slightly more extensive way than it is here. For example, as in the city's decision of the town of Koprivnica, the unclassified road which has a width of at least 6 meters in a separate walking-cyclist path of 2 and a half metres wide is at least on one side, and if possible on both sides, it would be good to install provisions in this Law, say that the state road passing through a populated place is a road that has two track lanes, a minimum width of 6 meters and a walking-bike path separated from that August of 2 and a half metres wide and that necessarily the state road must be lit up. I am sure that that provision and so built roads through the settlement would contribute much more to road safety than any repression and any preventive measure prescribed. But what do we have in practice? We recently built public lighting at the intersection of county and state roads. The state road is played by the case on land owned by the town of Koprivnica because it was built by the former municipality. We asked for consent from Croatian roads to build public lighting. Croatian roads have prescribed a condition, they said there must be 14 lux per square centimetre lighting of the intersection, but they said that for those 14 candelabers we must, which we build at that crossroads we must pay an annual fee of 4 thousand kuna for the use of the road belt. Land owned by the town of Koprivnica. So, instead of building public lighting to maintain public lighting, to pay for electricity, the state is destimulating local self-government where it wants to invest in the safety of such intersections, in a way that still requires compensation for the use of road belts, land owned by that unit of local self-government. It's absurd, it's absurd. That's where the punishments don't mean anything. In the case of a game, it's a crossroads where there's almost been a death case a year, and I hope we've achieved at least something to the safety of that. Another example is maintenance of state roads. Who's responsible for maintaining state roads? do you know that if you want to connect, build a sewerage along the state road and connect that state road to the road drain, that Croatia's roads will also ask you to pay compensation for using the road belt to build that sewer. Not to mention that Croatia's roads will not pay the price of cleaning the road drain off that road. And probably if we take the rain off the road, there'll probably be more security of passage and traffic, there won't be any pools on that road, there won't be rain. There won't be any of this. Let's not talk about snow any further. Most of our national and local roads were built for a completely different transport capacity. I was recently driving from Perusic to Yellow Lock, which is, it's not a road, is it? That can't be called a road anymore. It's a little depressing to watch the highway that's lit up, and you can't drive, but it's a road that was built probably for much less traffic capacity. It is used today when you use 3, 4 or 5 times more vehicles there. Someone would have to answer, or someone, as we closed the tunnel at a time when there was carbon dioxide more than allowed, should say forgive that road no more can go so many vehicles. And we let the road go as far as the vehicles stop. And someone here today, I think Mrs. Djurdzica Adlesic said about the issue of excessive use of roads. When building the Bjelovarska bypass of the road around the Shodrana along the Drava, they were torn apart. It's a hole. It's a shocker. No one has found it appropriate to come to the rescue of those holes and train those roads. And on that road, there was this accident that a colleague was talking about, where a grandfather with two grandkids in an unregistered vehicle died. On that road that is overused, thousands of gravel trucks pass daily and have been delayed by state roads for four years by pulling a new layer of asphalt along that road. There was talk here today about alcohol. I agree to be 0.0 alcohol, but it was also the thesis that you can drink, but if you drink, you can drive. Let's not send such a message. Socially, alcohol consumption is unacceptable. Even if you don't drive. Do not drink, especially do not drive if you drink. And the prime minister said today that he doesn't send a message don't drink. So imagine how much the costs of the Health Insurance Office to treat alcohol disease and what a social damage it is to people who are alcoholics. And finally I want to say something about bikes. I agree that bicycle helmets should be introduced, I hope there will be an amendment, but I'd like the amendment to be 10 or 12 years old. For 16 years, our teenagers have other standards, and I think we're gonna make that wrong move. We in Koprivnica have an action safe in traffic where all 5th grade children pass a test of knowledge and skills in cycling. Afterwards, they get confirmation from the HAK that they are therefore ready and aware of the rules and are ready to join the market. And I think it's supposed to be some sort of child-involvement policy. Not here as it says for 16 years and not as it says 9 years. Otherwise, the term "child bike" is also vaguely defined, which is said to be a child's bike should not be driven along the road, but is not told anywhere what a child's bike is. And the question arises what about children of 5 or 6 years of age who know and learn to ride on a bicycle, a normal bike as defined by the Law, and by this Law they should not drive on the road. So those are some questions. I think that the law and that society and the state should stimulate healthy modes of movement, and the bike is one of the healthiest ways to move and that we should remove all the obstacles that we put there, and that we should go for safety. It should be seen to really be 10 or 12 years, not 16 years, and I think it would be completely unreasonable for grandmas to wear helmets. And finally, one more sentence please. I suggest that punishments for young drivers be not cashed but punishments for young drivers be in the form of community service. Especially in traffic prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17892	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas now. First replica of my colleague Lesar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17893	Thank you very much. This Law bears the P.Z.E. designation, which means that it is a matter of harmonisation with European legislation. Only to our neighbours of Slovenians or Austrians if we come then in their legislation there is one provision that I simply could not find, and somewhere at a time when Saint Nikola, Santa Claus and Santa Claus are starting to visit our children and it is time for Mr. Minister when the first news on the television log begins, the first snow that fell last night surprised the winter service and many drivers. It was never clear to me how, during Christmas, someone could surprise the snow on the road without a winter tire, and now I understand and you suggest it again that there is no provision in Croatia from when winter conditions on the roads are valid but you leave it to the conclusion that winter conditions are on the road when it is on a stake of snow or ice. The experiences we had before and to which I call myself, November 15th, March 15th are winter conditions in that part of Croatia where snow is common rainfall. We are solving what your officers in this report can confirm that the day the first snow falls you have the largest number of traffic accidents in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17894	Okay. We have a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17895	Well, I have to agree with my colleague, Lesar, that it is indeed a problem especially when maintaining public roads where stocks are much larger and where competences are more concentrated on a higher level of decision-making, especially at times when we are surprised by the first snow. And if we're already transferring a big part, which is good, this is a good law that has a strong and strong confidence in local self-government and when we're already transferring or giving part of that trust to the local self-government to regulate the issue of traffic in its territory, maybe we should see that the issue of maintaining road maintenance, state and county supervision is also entrusted to local self-government, but that local self-government has the ability to order those who maintain the state road to solve something that is on that state road and not that it's the other way around as we do now. And just to say that it is totally unacceptable to Article 36(2), where it is said that the representative body of the local self-government unit, with the prior consent of the police administration, can approve the takeover of part of the footing. I don't think there's anything to mess with the police here because nogost is not part of the road, but instead of the state's funding of the units of local self-government, and it's up to the city's head office to decide on the use of public areas, and not the city council, or the county council, and it should be returned, that text should be completely deleted, but I don't think it should be put in place that the Road Safety Act defines who's going to decide who's going to do the legsteps in the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17896	Thank you very much. Replica esteemed colleague Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17897	Dear Mr. Vice-President, a respected colleague not to him, but a short replica since he mentioned in his debate a section of the state road from Žuta Lokva to Perusic, that road is located in Ličko-Senj County and is indeed in the same state as the esteemed colleague noticed, but I would not agree with his assessments in terms of non-care and non-preservation of that part and note in fact the following: That the County Ličko-Senjska, County Road Administration, headed by the mayor, has already signed appropriate contracts in terms of recovery and that there has just been major damage to these roads not only national but also county roads due to the construction of the highway route. For the sake of this information, after the release of the route, the highway will not be any obstacle to accessing the quality of the recovery of the stock, among other things tomorrow is the government's meeting in Gospić, but it will also be one of the topics for the resolution of all the roads within the Ličko-Senj County that are devastated due to the use of heavy construction machinery, and it would be very soon, already the contracts have been signed and very soon should be realised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17898	Besides, it's also a legal obligation. Dear fellow Mršić responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17899	But my colleague, you didn't deny me that the road was in bad shape, then I have to say that she wasn't in much better shape before the road was built. It is a road that has really done its best and that road most of us pass through that road, not to mention one of your county, some of you have not passed the roads in my county and most of us are on the road in your county, that road is talking about raising the standard of maintenance of county and state roads in the Republic of Croatia, that we cannot take the car roads and some other roads to ignore the county and local roads but when we talk about it then we should say that only cities and municipalities do not receive any income from the basic use of roads and must build unclassified roads. County administrations earn taxes on cars, the state earns toll and part of gasoline, only municipalities and cities do not earn any revenue based on road use, I believe when municipalities and cities would get part of the revenue with the basis of the use of roads in order to know simpler, more efficient and easier to reposition funds and better take care of local roads. I think the local problems are better seen from the mayor's office than from Mark's Square, and I'd like a cabinet session to be held in Koprivnica so that some road in Koprivnica can be restored for the term of office of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17900	Thank you very much. Replica, dear colleague Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17901	I have to replicate to Mr. Mršić, but in order not to make it seem like I'm saying it for myself, I'm going to read a short fraction of Mr. Mijic from the New List: "Illusion is to believe that death on the road will stop overnight by the act of adopting a repressive law. No prevention, no education, no building quality infrastructure. Therefore, it is not clear why Croatia is today placed in... Albania, Kazakhstan and some other countries that completely prohibit alcohol consumption. Would it not be more logical to follow the example of Italy, Spain, which, as tourist countries, allow 0.8 percent, because guests who eat fish most often cannot drink Coca-Cola along with it just as it cannot... the wine of the blood of Jesus in the church ritual." By the way, Mr. Mršić, I took a look at it behind a fish that drinks Coca-Cola.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17902	Dear colleagues and colleagues visiting the Croatian Assembly are leaders of Croatian Catholic missions in the Republic of Slovenia, and representatives of Croatian associations in the Republic of Slovenia, so please welcome them warmly. And now the answer to Mršić's replica. [[Applause.]] You didn't ask, and that's because of Coca-Cola.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17903	I just want to say it's not Coca-Cola. It's Deit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17904	Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17905	Thank you very much. A colleague Mršić said that he spent 0 percent of his alcohol suggesting that all those who spoke when driving do not drink, and when drinking do not drive that they are wrong and that they must not say that for reasons that alcoholism and drinking must not be encouraged in this House. However, since he said that he only drinks Deit, I was going to point out that he has those who drink a glass of black wine after lunch and it has a cultural and medical feature and I think it is not a good idea to pass on the views and especially the fact that last year, at the 9th month, we passed the Law on that wine is food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17906	All right, then make sure you don't overeat that item. It's time for my dear colleague, Katarina Fuchek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17907	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support this final draft of the law, whose main motivation for adoption must have been the basis of those black statistics that showed in numbers the tragic situations of those who died on our roads above all young people and behind each such number must surely have certain fates and I think that this is something that must once come to an end. It's been trying to solve this security issue for many years, but we finally came to the conclusion that the situation is getting harder and harder every day, and that we don't actually have a complete solution, but something has to start. If sharpening punishment is one way to stop death first of all young people, then it should be supported. For the safety of road traffic, everyone is as interested as my predecessors said, because we are all participants in traffic. Someone in the car, someone walking, everyone in their own way, but we're not all equally threatened and we don't all act the same when we're on foot and we don't act the same when we're in the car. Actually, what's he saying? He's talking about us, talking about the culture of driving, actually talking about the culture of society. So the way we behave in the car, the way we drive, the way we tolerate others, the way we let them go with the right championship, and in some way we're going to go with the whole tolerance or by laying down rules that are actually tomorrow and certain results, so here's in these tragic figures. Why do we know how to behave in Slovenia, and as soon as we cross the border, we apply their rules, the Slovenians are strict, they do not give in, they will charge me a fine? And all right, and we tie our seat belts, and we drive slower, we rebel a little bit, but everything's fine. Also in Germany, God forbid we'd be in a position to break German law. The Germans are a disciplined people, it's in mentality, they respect their laws, they respect their country. But when we get home, then home is freedom. Is home to freedom, is perhaps part of our mentality, that in fact laws don't have to be too respected, but in some ways the culture of society is being created even before the law begins to apply, by education. What have we done to prepare young generations to be involved in transport, what will they be, how will they ultimately contribute to this security as constructive members of society? We do campaigns, marketing campaigns when we really do, when we're motivated by numbers and when it goes beyond measure. Large money is spent on the campaign, and on concrete prevention that they are spent on concrete prevention would certainly have a different and more efficient and long-term character. I think you should think about it, too. As for the system of education, primary schooling and secondary schooling, I think that the culture of transport is negligible, it has been in the form of technical education before, I'm not too informed as far as it is now, certain that there are levels of local self-government of a particular action, that the police are doing the utmost to put it at the centre of attention, but that's not enough. This is not enough anyway, and this society has to pay more attention to prevention, especially as regards the inclusion of a culture of transport and the participation of young people in the school education programme, and not only when the school year starts and then on TV we get news, watch small ones. And in a year, two classes died. Except for the meaning of the culture we've had to create since we were little, the safety of traffic is made up of vehicles. In what state they are, every citizen knows it well. How he maintains it and whether he can maintain it, whether he can buy a new, more stable, with full equipment, that's the part he decides on, that's his way of life. Roads, e roads are a painful, painful point. They are built intensively, but there are those that are being destroyed intensively, while these are being built intensively. I think the road is one of the significant causes of stability in that part we're talking about here. My colleagues spoke and supported the proposal of a fellow MP who mentioned and who actually presented the problem of the Podravska highway and the overload of the road and the road with the speedboats, trucks, not the passing of the road, and there is, that is, a weak point about which the Government is about to draw certain conclusions as well. Because I think that when we meet as a participant on that road in front of us there are four peddlers, how and how we can safely get involved and be, and get to our destination. If we look at the technical state they're in, we can see that they certainly seem to be doing what they can. But roads are not technically equipped until the end, they are certainly not the best quality, because they are old, and they have absolutely certain faults in designing themselves, they used to be black spots that were marked, I don't know how it seems now, but in any case there are certain places that are definitely marked as more often, as places where traffic accidents occur more often and other entities should be taken into account. It is not normal for 20 car accidents to occur on one section in one year and no one is responding except for the driver himself. It's really not normal. Someone needs to take care of that. Now apply the law. The law is effective if it is applied in quality, i.e. if we respect it and if the police as a first body have a good teamwork, it has a good willingness to comply with all its provisions. What has been noted is that the causes of the accident are speed. Speed causes the most frequent alcohol, and alcohol is often consumed, often consumed well by those who love it, but young people here are the most threatened with adrenaline, they need proof. And our society is intolerant to alcohol. It's normal to be drunk, it's not normal, and I join all those who have advocated the proposal of zero prominence in this law. I think that out of sadness begins all the evil that is happening in traffic, right from tolerance to alcohol consumption, both medically and from another point of view, it is explained that the concentration of reduction means concentration of alcohol and also by increasing speed. What are the main causes of mortality, or the most dangerous acts? Crossing and landing off the road, and then it means if we look back at what caused it to happen, it's alcohol. I think that as a society, we should advocate that alcohol consumption is marked as a socially unacceptable business or a disgrace. And when a person is marked with this, he must have a different approach, and then he certainly does not agree to prove himself that way. I think, first of all, of young people and that it will benefit them the most. I look as a parent, and I think most of my parents will join me in that regard. The way I see it, there's no time. I just want to say one more thing. And what we lack as citizens is that we should report all the offenders and that in traffic, especially when we see that they have really put someone at risk and that it is not a shame but a normal thing, and that is how we protect ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17908	Thank you, Comrade Fuchek. Now we have replicas. First honorary colleague, Bucan, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17909	Well, there's only one thing I'd like to say is that it was actually heard in the presentation of a respected colleague named Fuček that the law other than these measures should be monitored by the ministry and education and the change of cultural habits because here are also mentioned the works of disco clubs and various celebrations. And speaking of which, and if we're going to accept these zero spills, then we need to know both for the sake of the public and for the education of the driver that we can't drink not only when it comes to driving directly behind it, but we need to know that if someone drinks at 11 o'clock or at 12 o'clock two cups of hot drink, or maybe 500 milliliters of wine 12% of volume alcohol, that there are 0,9 proms in that moment in the blood, and that they should be careful that in the morning when they go to work after seven hours, they will be positive, and by the formula used by our Center for Criminal Arts at the Ministry of the Interior. The one who drank two cups of hot drinks at 12 o'clock a.m. when most clubs started working has 0.9 o'clock or half a liter of wine and in the morning after seven o'clock he will have 0.1 promil. Therefore, one broad educational action needs to be implemented and to think about it if the law is to be adopted in this form as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17910	Thank you very much, dear colleague Bucan. Replica, dear fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17911	You, Mrs. Fuček, are talking today about how bad the rolling stock in Croatia is, how hard it is for citizens to maintain their vehicles and rebuild that old rolling stock and regret the fate of our citizens. As of tomorrow, you're starting to use new excise duties that you've voted for even more expensive and will make it even harder for citizens to get them, so they'll be driving in those old cars and you're paying over their fate today and yesterday you didn't just vote them for a bigger excise charge. I don't trust you in that regard.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17912	Replication response, dear colleague Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17913	Mr. Stazic, you just misread my words. I didn't say the fleet was bad and old. I said it was personal access to a man's vehicle. Someone has a chance to buy a new one, someone doesn't. Someone likes a strong car, someone likes a weaker one, and that's what I was talking about, and the vehicle is one of the elements of road safety, only subjectively without any tendencies you've seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17914	Thank you very much, Comrade Fuchek. It's time for the replica of the esteemed colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17915	I'm not for anyone to be marked in any way or for those who drink. I think there's something else going on here. The thing is that these incident drivers, and I'm putting those who have five to seven points, have only 0.7% in Croatia, 15 grand on almost 2 million drivers. That 15 grand, that 0.7% bully, terrorize this 2 million. The question is whether or not we're going to let them do what they want to do on the streets, step on the roads, give up the tightening measures. Last time we didn't make it, even though the ministry stood up for it, and I think we made a mistake. And that's why I am in favour of tightening those measures five and seven points, there are also those who have to go to extra school or take exams again. They're only 0.7%. 99.3% are normal drivers. On their behalf here, I'm saying that the laws get sharpened.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17916	Comrade Fuchek, reply to the line. Here you go, my fellow Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17917	Well, actually, I listened to Mr. Jurovic's argument or replica. I don't know which colleagues he's replicated extremely well, and I don't see what the difference is. What I meant as a marking, usually young people identify with someone, and in that sense alcohol can't be some kind of identification, and now I'm young, capable, powerful, I can do anything. In that context, I spoke as some kind of negative approach to alcohol, and in any case, I support what you said before to terrorize those who have transgressed every step of their own, whether they're habitual, whether they're occasional habits, and I think we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17918	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Joseph Leco has his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This is indeed a law that is addressed and applies to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, even wider, and to those who come to the Republic of Croatia with good intentions. And if I were to listen to the whole debate today and on committees, and if I were to make an assessment based on the debate and the opening argument, then I would still have some illusions about politics, especially about government policy, then I could conclude whether this country is happy, and especially its drivers, because we are all taking the greatest care of drivers and there is no dilemma that this is because the government has very systematically identified all the causes that affect road traffic. There is no dispute, all of it is exact, scientifically proven, and therefore the government has decided in an emergency procedure, in an emergency procedure such a significant law to be passed in one reading, and then in the Parliament, another Prime Minister as a prime minister and the club from which he leaves has certain discretion. Then I suspect an emergency procedure, I suspect the causes that led to an emergency procedure, and then I can say that the government has succumbed to the public's atmosphere. And the government offers us one twisted thesis or repressive measure or victim on the road and that's not so, that's not so. If it were so, I really think it would be a general consensus in the Croatian Parliament and that the debate would not last all day and that there would be very difficult views about the law itself. The preparation of a law on such a sensitive subject really deserved a more thorough approach, an analytical approach to every problem and every cause and at least two readings of such a law. What if it turns out in a year that there are more and more serious traffic accidents because the law was not prepared and the citizens were not prepared for such a law. As far as possible, which is possible if we add that the law is simply not realistic, it does not reflect the situation in Croatian society. So comparisons of Croatian society and Croatian depression with Slovenia and Germany regarding this law are simply not appropriate. Slovenia today has $17,000 per capita. Germany has $27,000 per capita. I'm sure depression is one of the important causes of road safety. The condition, the condition of a man's driver, of course, can be replicated now, it's not my goal to cause a replica, it's simply to point to a problem. I've even heard from the elite experts that it's a bigger cause of enough driving than the ones the government is proposing. That it has more effect on sleepiness and reflexes than on other causes mentioned here. Yes, it was made on the Committee on Legislatives, and it was made by prominent experts, of the most prominent experts. What about the helmet proposal? That's what it's all about. About clothing reflecting whether it will really be used for the benefit of traffic participants? They will, but on the negative side. So within 8 days of the publication of this law, Croatian citizens will not buy reflective clothes and walk on the road but in the event of an accident, accident, injury or damage I believe they will be participants and the cause of this accident, they will not be properly dressed. The next thing I know is the concern from the public's point of view that within 8 days of the announcement, the use of a cell phone in a car will be punished by hand. So, no built-in device. The minister himself says we have a million and 677 vehicles today. In Croatia, thank God mobile phone is highly developed and I can say that it uses a huge number of mobile phone drivers. Within 8 days, either do not use it or install a device that in my opinion is called hands free. Free hands. Neither we have the capacity to professionally install the services, nor we have the means to install it within 8 days, so we put the most repressive measure of the citizens on the line. It simply does not follow the reality of life. It's not, it's not possible to expect it means that we're involved in getting citizens to commit a crime so we can punish them. That's right, that's what the law says. If I were mean, why didn't we bring in at least last year that no car that didn't have such a system could be introduced? Or why at least now we're not proposing a law that obliges all car importers to be in standard equipment installed that device. Because it's no longer for use in Croatia because it has to have a telephone device. That's why I think it's a matter of responsibility to two million drivers and to all traffickers to bring this bill into two readings, even if we're going to have an extraordinary session because it deserves colleagues and colleagues. It refers to all citizens and all those who come to the Republic of Croatia, whether on foot they will walk either with a car or with another means of transport. There's something else very important. I must say, the police's powers are being strengthened and it's autonomously decided by the police. Or I have misunderstood the European Union's instructions or the Government does not take care of the European Union's guidelines. A stand-alone safeguard measure of the police without a misapplication by my court is not acceptable to Croatian society or at least what we want to be. If we add that we are a country in transition where the influence of political parties is indeed more than obvious and I think that for a reason we can be afraid that and will be selective application of the provisions of the law because of the nature and non-compliance of the real situation in life, it will be selective application of the provisions of the law but it is an even smaller problem because we have learned it in Croatia, we pass the law and we selectively apply it because it is not applicable, it is not realistic. But it'll be much worse if there's discretionary use of sanctions because the police have some powers on their own. Because of this, colleagues and colleagues, this law really deserves more attention from all of us, and once again, I don't think it's party colored. He brings no points to any party if it is passed over his knee, he brings negative points. Therefore, it is not a dilemma whether measures are taken to ensure better safety in transport, to reduce the number of damages killed, it is not a dilemma but a dilemma in which, in a way that is very realistically and thoroughly examined, measures are taken to ensure that they have real power and that they are accepted by all actors in the traffic, that is, in other words, from all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and those who come to it with good intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17920	The replica of the esteemed colleague, Bucan, has, here is my colleague, Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17921	I've made a correction to the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17922	But, all right, here's a correction to the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17923	Thank you very much. I would like to correct Mr. Lek's incorrect claim that the government has succumbed to the public's alarm and that it offers us choice or repressive measures or victims on the roads, and I should nevertheless say that the government is aware of the difficult situation that the government has on these roads and that it listens to the voice of the public but that it offers us a new draft law that harmonises the legislation of the European Union with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17924	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Mlinarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17925	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Lek, who said that we wanted to get citizens to be punished more easily. We don't draw on citizens we just do law for citizens, we do law for citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17926	We're continuing the debate. It's time for my dear colleague, Ahel. Isolate Irene.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17927	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The reasons for the need to adopt a new law do not need to be specifically elaborated unlike the reasons why it is necessary to support the adoption of these and such regulations. The new law free to say is adopted at the end of the day and contains measures of preventive and criminal policy which should be introduced in a hasty manner to change the behaviour of irresponsible road users and, in particular, to change driver behaviour. Responsibility is not an exclusive feature of a driver, but literally of all road users, a car accident can be blamed by anyone. But drivers manage motor vehicles and can do much more damage to other participants. It is necessary to act on everything and especially on them. The law contains large and constructive procedures that directly contribute to greater road safety according to world experience and research, such as the introduction of mandatory use of daily or karat lamps on vehicles, regardless of the conditions of visibility, the ban on the use of mobiles and other devices during driving and other devices. I particularly welcome the introduction of measures relating to the education of new young drivers who do not have the necessary driving experience for safe driving, such as reducing their age from 17.5 to 16 years and 9 months for people who want to start training more of the role of parents for their underage children who are being trained and so on. In particular, it should be commended to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to define and introduce measures aimed at reducing the loss of new drivers on our roads. For example, a speed limit, a ban on organised transport of children, a ban on towing vehicles, a ban on driving at night from 23 to 05 hours except for escorts, a ban on driving a personal car whose engine power exceeds 75 kilowatts and motorcycles whose engine power exceeds 25 kilowatts. I particularly welcome the introduction of a safe driving programme whose implementation should receive a more thorough and overall quality driver education over a period of two years after obtaining a driver's license with a significantly smaller number of young people killed on our roads. In accordance with the practice of the European Union countries, I particularly welcome the opening of the possibility of tightening the criminal policy for serious offences such as driving under the influence of alcohol and for offenders who repeat serious violations by imposing a prison sentence. Unfortunately, without a resolutional criminal policy in our country, it is not possible to change the behaviour of road users, this has been confirmed in practice. Protection of the rights of persons with disabilities to free movement and respect for their specific needs has found places in this regulation, pointing to the desirable social sensitivity of our Government for persons with special needs. Because of these arguments, I strongly support the adoption of this Law in the form in which it is proposed because I am convinced that its application will result in a significant improvement in the safety of traffic on our roads and a reduction in the number of victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17928	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for a respected colleague of the Koreans. Here's your colleague, Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17929	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I must at first express my criticism before the legislators because they did not respect the current Law on Road Safety, more specifically and more precisely its Article 301. which says that before being referred to in the procedure, the Croatian Transport Safety Council must be asked for the opinion. In the Croatian Council on Transport Safety, which I was president of in the previous term of the Croatian Parliament, it is made up of 25 experts or most of the relevant experts covering this area of life and work, and I am not clear which reasons are to exclude, for example, experts from the High Court, from some other institutions that can talk about some aspects of this Law which, unfortunately, in this proposal are extremely badly done in my opinion. Let's take it in a row. First of all, the entire chapter of the previous law relating to the Croatian Transport Safety Council no longer exists and the Croatian Council for Transport Safety has been abolished by decree. I will remind myself that other countries in the world have their own traffic safety tips from us neighbouring Slovenia, so it is unclear why and what are the reasons why we simply do not have such institutions with us. Here, there are in the United States, it's National Transport... which since 1975 exists and is directly established and managed by the President of the United States of America who is currently working on an analysis of some major traffic accidents, and until his task is also to propose that the Minister who has the area of transport and transport, and also to the President of the United States of America, all measures to improve road safety. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the United Kingdom, Denmark, Switzerland, which means countries where we are trying in some way to look at and see and have some rules of conduct. This is not a good move, I think, is that so far the Croatian Council has been the advisory body of the minister who had in his field of transport or the area of transport. If that is the case, it seems to me to be a better solution that we had in previous amendments to the laws which unfortunately did not welcome their third reading and I suggest that we consider establishing a Croatian Road Safety Council which would be in, directly under the influence of the President or one of the Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This advice would also serve as a task to implement the National Road Traffic Safety Programme because this is how everything remains within the MUP. It is about large amounts of money, money that neither Parliament will control at all. I don't think that's a good move, and I'd ask for it to be taken care of. Also in Croatia, according to the National Council for Transport Safety in several, I believe that in 11 counties so far the county council has been established, road traffic safety tips that remain this way without their roof organisation. I, for example, stress that in Međimurska, Varazdinska and Rijeka, Primorje-Goranska County, for example, these tips work extremely well, that they have proposed to the county heads, the county assemblies that, which, the Croatian Council co-financed and have achieved certain promotions in traffic in the area of these counties. So I think it's incorrect. I would at least ask for an explanation that would say something about it, but that's also a reason more to suggest, it has already been suggested by several colleagues that this Law go to another reading. By breaking over the knee and passing through the night, especially as it is now proposed that some time should be adapted to the application of this Law, I think that it can also endure a month or two months to get together, that we may all contribute together, regardless of the party colors, to make this law more quality and better. I also have several, in my opinion, observations that are not contained in this Law, which I think should certainly be contained, and that is why I propose a second reading. Compared to that law that passed 2 readings in the previous assembly, there is also no legal provision that would be defined by the members of the law and in that old existing law that will now slowly go into history, and that is the obligation of Croatian media to educationally influence their readers, their viewers, to propagate their listeners in every way security in road traffic. I have to say when I was president of the Croatian Road Safety Council that I had been having negotiations with Croatian Television for almost two years, which is, by the way, public television and the editor-in-chief at the time, Mrs Jasna Ulaga-Valić in no way wanted to be one of the programmes of educational content on road safety on Croatia TV sometime before the weekend. I hear and welcome every idea that Croatian broadcasting is included in this programme because in Croatia, in the Croatian Radio of such shows there are and I think they have a very positive impact on the consciousness and conscience of all of us drivers. I also have to say that I agree, the situation in traffic security is bad, but I must also point out that, nevertheless, the work of all those who deal with traffic safety in some way, we call it bad if we say that it is catastrophic. Because compared to 1991, 1992, when more than 1,000 people died on Croatian roads, this situation is certainly not good. Every dead person does not have a price and everything else, however, given the increase in traffic on Croatian roads, since the number of vehicles has been increased by 60% compared to 1990, given that new kilometers of roads have been built, so the situation is bad, but it seems to me that some of the provisions of this Law will not essentially contribute to improving this. I stand up and I support, I support the promoter to raise the fines. The penalties are high and we need to admit this, but the penalties are in the function of protecting those, all of us citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure that those 0.7% of irresponsible drivers who are frequently and consciously breaking traffic rules. Let's go concretely now. In Article 221, where young drivers are mentioned. I think the term “young driver” may be a little vague because we all mean it's about young people. This must be about people who have just finished training for the driver and I have from, from the auto-school association yet one suggestion. Drivers don't get out of auto-school unskilled, they come out eventually unskilled and not, like bad drivers after passing the driver's test. Because they're not officially drivers until then. And I think we need to tighten the control on the driver's exams. Is the best solution that we have a test center or that one who now has the public authority to do it really on the same polygons, that all auto-schools for the areas of one county come to the same polygon, that there are tests that should still be secret and everything else about it. However, as far as young drivers or new drivers are concerned, it seems to me that a hybrid solution was adopted compared to what Professor Watche, from the Police Academy, proposed in 2001 and 2002. I agree to limit the speed of young drivers or new drivers, that's the first thing. They should certainly be banned from the presence of alcohol or drugs in the organism, but what is not guided here is that it should be in that case and the vehicle that young drivers or new drivers are driving. Let that be a warning to all those involved in the traffic. Unfortunately, I'm here with this one. As for the school of safe driving, there was a concept in that proposal that was then valid because I think that by finishing the driver's exam, all drivers were trained to drive safely. However, the two-year probation period for those who want to speed up to get a permanent driver's license should then pass the safe driving school and get a permanent driver's license before it runs out of 2 years. I think it's a much more correct and better solution that I think might make it possible to go. I have to say in criminal charges and so far has shown court practice that unfortunately the Croatian police or certain actors in the Croatian police are not sufficiently educated and trained to write criminal charges. In this regard, the problem is why a large number of misdemeanors are being rejected in criminal courts. For example, regarding alcohol and everything else. So given my time at the end of at least for this matter, the state means it's going to pass a law like this. I think there's a real state to think about some more points so I don't forget another important thing. It is about professional drivers, we welcome, I now as President of the Alliance of Drivers and Auto mechanics of the Republic of Croatia we welcome the provision that 90 hours can be driven continuously or with interruptions within 2 weeks. But I also ask that it be very clear and precise, who will control it, because often in such anarchical capitalist society as we now have by running for profit, indeed, the bosses make their workers work long, have neither adequate nor other protections. And in the end, it turns out that this particular driver who has to drive to feed himself and his family will be punished. So I welcome the measure, but I'd like to ask that control be more strict, to explain to us who's going to control it and do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17930	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of the Koreans. It's a replica of a fellow Bituniac. Here you are, fellow Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17931	Well, I wouldn't pollemize puma. However, Mr. Korenik said that he defacto that he resented the government to break things over which he was lazy and his proposal was to Abby this was only the first reading, but given everything that has happened in the past few months with special and to think about the wider public, I think that this decision by the ministry or the attached ministry and the government's decisions to make them real. And in some ways the public in Croatia and all those who participate in traffic and all of us are in some way involved in it, whether we are drivers or not. They were expected from the government and from the competent ministry of rapid and quality reaction and I believe that this proposal by the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia is qualified and that, with our amendments, all of us MPs can possibly be further improved and completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17932	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17933	My dear colleague, I understand your desire to pass the law as soon as possible is my goal, but several predecessors as well as I have asked for a deadline between the first. We can say that the deadline between the first and second readings and that was already a practice in this high house will be a few days. Because the thing is that from today to tomorrow or when there will be a vote on the proposal of this Law, it is simply quite difficult to bring or propose certain amendments that will change something drastically. Because Mr. Prime Minister has also announced the amendment to the government that we have not now seen. I'm afraid it won't change for a month. Especially since it should be informed, since it is a significant law and a wider Croatian public about what changes are made in the law. And let us be aware that apart from one round of lawyers, aside from one round of lawyers, very few people in this country are reading the National Journal so that they can get to know all the news that this Law will bring. Therefore, we MPs only received this law Friday afternoon, preparations for adoption, and among us are relatively short for consultations. I don't think a day of two or a week would drastically change anything about policymaking. By correct or by respecting and so far the road safety law can be done, let's call it repression. I wouldn't do repression. I'd do rape. I'd do penance for insubordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17934	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague of the Koreans. We're continuing the debate. It's coming, dear colleague Vujic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Let me start with one thing that seems to belong to me in the area of cleaning up some of our concepts about what we're actually talking about and what we're going to do with different conversations. First, there is one belief that I think would be wise to remove it, which is that the law will resolve the issue of accidents, not something else. Advocating people, institutions, all who operate in transport, education, programs and so on. Please, and there was a law now, and no traffic accident has happened under that law. Not a single one. Therefore, the law cannot in itself change the situation unless we change this second. The other thing I'd notice is what I think is important. The main problem of an accident that's not otherwise well analyzed here, I'll say something about it later. It comes out if it comes from something that those who are less responsible in transport do not feel that they are adequately supervised and that they will have statements if they do not adhere to the relevant regulations of the Law which makes too many requests put those who should ensure its application in an even more difficult position. So the less convincing of the police than the quantum change that this law brings in relation to the former one, only in some ways strengthens the feeling of those who intend to be unserious in traffic to continue to be. Because if the police are going to have to watch who has all the helmets of cyclists on their heads now, if they're going to have to have all the new powers even less effective to track it all and therefore regularly they're thinking the general laws of humanity, and sociology is going on the next process, and that is, if there is no control then do the loose things and so to say and feel that we have to stick to the law. Another thing from the other branch now. Accidents are terrible. There's only one thing worse than an accident because it's already happened and it's an accident abuse. We have come to this law most certainly everyone on this day individually in the best of intentions. But not in the best sense of what we do in various ways, to solve the issues in a way that they are not solved. And in one created climate in some way, let's not focus on how we're really going to solve the problem, but on how we're going to meet the expected public change that is expected of us to solve certain problems. Please, we think that Croatia is something special about the number of accidents. There's one table here that only has 20 countries but let's say that they're in some way indicative of being placed and numbered. If we put in the first group of countries from 60 to 100 per number of founders per number of accidents, then it's Britain, Sweden. The Netherlands, Denmark Finland, Germany and so on. It's a great honor to have countries very paved with all sorts of habits, so I think, and a habit of being on the road. It's a double group of 100 to 140. Ireland, Italy, Austria, Slovenia, and some others are so they can't be classified in those countries, but that's still considered to be relatively good. Please, Croatia is in a group with these countries. And that's a group of 130 to 150. France, Spain, Croatia, Belgium. There's another group that's fat behind it, it's 150 to 200, it's Luxembourg, it's Greece, it's Portugal. I'm not saying this to make you think we'd have less responsibility to solve each individual case. I'm only saying this next. In order to know that cases of road safety need to be approached from the scales of things, it is necessary to approach how we will fix them in the real way, not how we will achieve this with pseudo methods in order to have greater road safety because we first created a public opinion, and now we expect to like that public opinion. That's not good. Well, then among other things, I'm not personally interested because I'm already in the senatorial phase to say that about alcohol, but please, nice anomalies are very clear. In Britain, 0.8% laughs and by the number of accidents the smallest. In Lithuania, nothing is allowed, and by number there is an accident among the greatest. We can go to 0.0%, we can go to 0.1% of whatever we want, but let's not add a political argument and an argument to a greater fight for road safety by bidding on what we don't know, in the end, even as I've listened to some, death sentences should be imposed. Please, let's not hunt witches, let's focus on the real problem, and these real problems lie behind the law. This does not mean that a new law should not be passed, it does not mean that a whole series of elements of this law should be absolutely used and adopted, but the real struggle to reduce the number of road accidents is not within the law itself, but behind the law, in the application of the law, in education, in creating all those assumptions that there is no accident, and where these assumptions are. They're in a condition on the roads, in a state of transport, in an active position of police on the road. Active position. It means not in those two places where I know exactly where I will find them and slow them down, but where I don't think I'll find them. Now I know how much I've traveled and when it goes towards Zadar and Split where it is. They should be where young people eventually consume alcohol, they should be present in many other places. To strengthen these institutions that have gone and these methods of video surveillance on the roads, there to achieve some kind of struggle to say for safety on the road. Because what we need to do is call for a road safety fight, not to say so to the public that we did not know what, so we have a whole series of things that don't hold water. Even the relationship with young people doesn't hold water, because Mr. Minister, you said that information, if young people participated with 25% in accidents, then they participate in society as much. Then there are no more accidents in the youth population than there are in other populations. If that's true, I don't know the data is yours, but somewhere the number of youngsters of 25%... The number of young people in society, meaning that approximately equal participation in accidents and society, is not a particular category. [[You don't understand.]] I don't believe that in this fear of ours, or fear, in one mentality, let's do campaigns now, then we do things, and then we bring, now we'll give all the power to tell the police, next time we'll give all the power to someone else, teachers, third time to the court, etc. etc. Please, Mr. Minister, I wouldn't argue in your place that your employees and police officers have the same discretion to retain up to three months' driver's license, etc. It's just in itself one so perhaps innocent thing. But have you imagined what opening is that precedent for who knows what else? It's just not good. And it's not a good thing what happens then is a case like this. In Article 198, the driver is a little sick or indisposed, and now someone will find out, take his license, and what, if he will hold it for three months. Please, I know it's not your intention, but please, it could come out nicely. I don't know who did this or what, and now they're going to be punished by at least a thousand kuna. And what's the biggest? It has to be limited to both the lower and the upper limits of the sentence, it can't be like this. This and a lot of others are just saying that, in addition to saying the noble intention that I won't even argue about, there are a lot of things that should be more seriously agreed on, and even to such things that have symbolic values, which in my opinion is that the question of auto school, professional organisation and who is calling the competition, etc. Yet more related to the Ministry of Education than to the Ministry of the Interior, etc. etc. But please, I'm undermining what I've already said several times. The situation is alarming, but we can't solve it in an alarming way. You need to go more on a whole series of these other things, primarily on road control and surveillance, on a stronger role of police. It needs to be trained, maybe more employees there, but the police need to be credible, and it can't be credible if the field of intervention is expanding, and there aren't enough for the current field of necessary interventions. These are all serious problems. So in this respect, I would also accept the invitation of Mr. Prime Minister who said this was not a party matter, but if this is not a party matter then please, especially not a matter of the current campaign and therefore absolutely join my colleagues and everyone else and I think another reading of this law would be very useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17936	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. There's a replica. Mr. Jure Bithugnac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17937	Well, fellow Vujic, you've used one like this, I'd say an unfortunate term of misappropriation when it comes to passing this law that's ahead of us. We must all be aware, I think that you are also aware that this is not a party promotion but that this is one logical reaction from the Ministry and the Government, as well as from those of us sitting in the Parliament to protect all the participants and all the citizens on the roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17938	Thank you very much. He has the word Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government. So let me, in my debate, have so much to hear today about the proposal or the final proposal of the Road Safety Act, I will focus my debate on a special age group of drivers, which is why young drivers, so young people who are there taking part as drivers in traffic, and I think that from the very same or the measures provided for in this law a lot, and not only the principle of nature can be applied to other traffic participants. We will all agree, i.e. the indisputable fact that for many years in Croatia there is a problem of young people suffering in traffic and too often with fatal consequences, especially young drivers with insufficient driving experience. The subject population is made up of drivers between 18 and 24 years of age, undoubtedly by all statistics and materials that we had with the proposal, the final proposal of this law, they represent or they are the most risky group of drivers because in traffic they often behave very aggressively and such behaviour undoubtedly leads to incident situations. Furthermore, due to insufficient experience of driving and any other experience, they often do not predict the consequences of driving a car by road or driving a car too fast. This age group accounts for about 7% of the total population in Croatia and this is a very interesting data, of which about 300 thousand and 240 thousand have a driving licence, which is about 80% of that age group. If we look at the share in the total number of drivers we come to the data that about 12% of drivers are these young drivers, and as far as statistics are concerned, only in 2003 the total number of accidents with the deceased is 633, and the total number of deaths is 701. So 701 people, which makes up 23.1% of the total number of accidents. However, here is a worrying trend, therefore, the trend in the growth of these traffic accidents and which, therefore, this type of traffic accidents in certain years is up to 25%. And that, and 25% of these car accidents, are made up of this young population that I'm talking about. As a result of all the measures proposed above, they must necessarily aim to tighten up without a doubt, primarily criminal policy against offenders of traffic rules and, among other things, to protect the freedoms and rights of other traffic participants. The illegal practices of transport participants must be strictly sanctioned, and the authorities of the State Administration must create an effective system of protection, freedom and the rights of people, which is indeed sought and achieved by the law in question. The proposed law should ensure efficiency and direct the focus of the criminal policy on offenders who blatantly violate traffic regulations, thereby directly affecting the reduction of the number of traffic accidents and traffic accidents. I therefore particularly support all those solutions that refer to the age group mentioned above, which are undoubtedly of a quality and do not have only a repressive character. And that's what I'd like to mention. I think that many MPs have pointed out as basic, in terms of the bill's proposal, repression, repression, however, we see here that, in addition to the repressive character, there are planned preventive measures, educational and pedagogical measures. With that in mind, for new young drivers who passed the driver's test and got a driver's license to prescribe a two-year period, counting from day to day as a test period from the day of the driver's license. But what I would like to stress is that I absolutely agree with all of this proposed really newspaper in this law, which concerns this population, and primarily I mean the speed limit, the absolute ban on alcohol and drugs consumption, the restriction of the power of the engine and the vehicle that I can manage, and the measure that has often been mentioned, which is a ban on driving at night from 23 to 05 hours except with the companion. As well as what is important in this preventive or educational sense, additional training of the driver group under the safety driving programme. Furthermore, the measures in question are limited for a period of two years during which a new driver must master the safety driving programme, and if the new driver does not master the safety driving programme during that period, the measure shall be extended for another year. And if it doesn't happen then, the driver's license ends. This should absolutely support the proposed measures because they directly influence the reduction of the threat of new drivers, and the special younger age that has so far been manifested in the lack of ability to see negative consequences of speeding. Finally, I absolutely support the Government's proposal, i.e. the full proposal for road safety legislation, and especially those legal solutions relating to this category of drivers. If the result of the adoption of this law is reduced the rate of young people killed and killed, all others, the proposal's absolute efforts on behalf of the MPs will undoubtedly be justified. And at the very end, let me also look back at some of the grades that we had the opportunity to hear that this Law is in the extreme line being passed for some daily political reasons or under public pressure. However, it should be pointed out that it is not really about that. It's not about politicizing, it's not about politics. The government here has not succumbed to public pressure, it has succumbed to something else regrettable. She succumbed to these absolutely frightening numbers of trafficked people, too often with fatal consequences and as a responsible government simply had to take concrete measures, and according to the Parliament, of course, a concrete law that, and I have no doubt, will actually result in the reduction of these terrible and negative trends that we have on our roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17940	Thank you very much. There is a replica, Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17941	Dear Mr. Vice President, not because I disagree with my colleague, but with a few details. I absolutely agree with you about all this stuff you said about young drivers. And I was alone until a year ago in that group of young drivers. But there is one thing. It would not entirely agree that only criminal policy and prevention, which is provoked by breach of the rules, can only make sense. What happened in most of us is that prevention, the initial one, before young people even go on the road as drivers and during primary school, has been scheduled for years and is not being implemented. Yesterday we saw, for example, in the implementation of the budget that we did not spend a single kuna on preventing alcoholism and these preventive actions. So when we talk here and again, we can't be hypocritical, so yesterday we can talk to each other today. I mean, I totally agree. Second, as far as drug testing is concerned. I agree that neither young nor other drivers should be allowed to be present nor alcohol or drugs, it is not good to otherwise consume, let alone when driving, but the problem is drug testing. Because the presence of some drugs in the body is especially seen in the most accessible 30 days after consumption. In that sense, I'm curious about how it's going to be. Because he's dangerous the day he was consumed, 30 days after consumption he doesn't have a drug reaction at all, but in the body he's present and all the chemical tests I'm afraid he'll show something else. And lastly, even though we've determined that young drivers are a high-risk group, they're just a little more than other drivers are involved in these car accidents. The thing that gets us the most is that young lives are so I don't think it's entirely right to label all young drivers as bad and irresponsible. Bad and irresponsible drivers are those who are not well - trained, who primarily parents have not learned to behave in the streets. As adults, too, we set such an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17942	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17943	I had no idea how to label this age group or young people. On the contrary, only their protection. So, the protection of young people who are involved in transport, and I think that as a society according to this age group, we should react to all of this to enable them to do what we're talking about. To know them about the dangers of driving, the responsibilities of driving, that they are, that they have the same rights as other participants and that they are speeding or irresponsible driving, which actually means and what it can result in in traffic. Dear colleagues, what I was saying in terms of law-solving, and regarding this age-old population, is precisely that I would thus show that the legislator did not have only the form of repression or repressive measures. Today we heard about the police, the punishment, the stop, the left, the right. This is an excellent example in the law where all these measures are covered or should be covered. So, both prevention and pedagogy, and school, and dating, not even to disqualify them with it, not to label them with it. You know, these young drivers are going to get older tomorrow, of course, and then they're going to get very old, but these habits that they're going to get through these schools and this system of education and participation in traffic for sure, I'm convinced they're going to result in us getting, let's say, one category in that sense of better drivers when they're older. As for drugs, as far as drugs are concerned, in any context of driving absolutely, and we've pollemized yesterday, an absolute ban especially on this age group and alcohol and drugs and combinations of both this and that. And not only does it have to be strictly prescribed, but from this place to give one message, I keep talking about these messages, not only is drugs unacceptable to one terrible phenomenon in society, but to contaminate drugs by driving or taking part in traffic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17944	Thank you. We heard the answer to the replica. Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17945	Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. In today’s debate, we heard a lot of critical remarks about the Law, heard commendations, and suggested that the Law be directed to a second reading, but several months of tragic events on our roads suggest enough and warn that something urgent should be done in this area. Statistics say that according to the number of road deaths in the last 12, 13 years, we have approached the death toll in 4 years of the Homeland War, namely in this period 11 thousand 760 traffic participants died and the trend in younger drivers' mortality becomes alarming. In recent months, after each tragic weekend where young drivers are mostly killed, there have been numerous debates about what is the cause of the monster and how it should end. In these discussions, different opinions are heard, ranging from a range of effective prevention and better education of these repressive measures for those who do not respect the laws and regulations of transport. Clearly, responsibility for this condition is transferred from one to another and tragic numbers are growing every new weekend. The first road safety law adopted in 92, significant changes were made in 96 years when criminal points, stricter penalties, the possibility of withdrawing a driver's license, etc., leading to significant positive traffic safety developments or to a reduction in the number of persons killed. There was a deterioration in road conditions in 2003 when 701 people died, which is more than 74 people in 2002, and this is the year when there was a significant deterioration in traffic since the application of the Law. Unfortunately, the unfavourable trend continues in 2004 where 248 people died in the first 5 months, more than in the same period in 2003. In view of the fact that in the existing law, criminal provisions have become quite outdated, i.e. they have become literally too mild and in some way stimulating for overcomings, any change to the existing law should go in the direction of a more drastic increase in both fines and others because only severe penalties and this shows us the experience of Western European countries which, with a huge increase in traffic, record traffic violations and accidents can be disciplined by unconscious and young drivers. Adrenaline, alcohol, drugs, and speed can only end with severe penalties. In addition to the criminal provision, not only should their parents, guardians, and guardians be sharpened, for young drivers do not fall in angry cars from heaven but are assigned to them by their parents. The bill that we are discussing today contains important newspapers that will directly contribute to greater traffic security, such as the obligation to use short lights, the ban on using mobiles and other devices while driving. Then, there is the possibility of tightening the criminal policy for serious violations, such as driving under the influence of alcohol and for offenders who repeat serious traffic violations. One part of the public in the first row of the young population is experiencing certain provisions in this Law as a breach of constitutional rights. In the first instance, this applies to Article 221 when young drivers without experience are limited in speed, the force of the vehicle which they can manage as well as the time in which they can drive. As regards speed, they may drive 10 to 20 km per hour slower than the limits on certain roads, not operating vehicles of category B more than 75 kilowatts, or motorists of 25 kilowatts. The time limit is also interesting. Young B-category drivers should not drive from 23 to 5 hours without the presence of an older experienced driver, and it would not be possible to manage motorcyclists during that time period at all. These restrictions are the result of a variety of statistical surveys that show that young people at the time are the most likely to cause car accidents. Namely, there is a familiar situation, young people go mostly in the evening outside, after 24 hours they enter cafes, discos, and clearly there they relax, drink, return in such a state on the road and, of course, cause accidents. These restrictions met with comments and legal professions but generally they are desirable and constitutional because in some other laws there is categorization per year. It is a good measure and changes that have been introduced in the driver’s license procedure that have been tightened and a safe driving programme is being introduced as a newspaper. Namely, within 6 to 24 months of issuing the driver’s licence, young drivers are required to pass that programme or their driver’s license is withdrawn. The young people here were still on hand because they had been able to pass their driving exams by the age of 16 and 9 months. Clearly, they have an obligation to pass the exam later after thousands of miles and escorted by the guardians, to get the right license. Here we can raise one doubt, namely, who's going to keep records of those 3,000 kilometers, it's proposed that those guardians run it, that's questionable whether it's good. I also welcome the delegation of powers to local self-government units so that they can organise certain traffic control and management operations, and in particular the one for the relocation of vehicles that are not properly parked. Therefore, Article 5(3) provides that the tasks of monitoring and relocating illegally stopped and parked vehicles, etc., may be carried out by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the bodies of the unit of local self-government, this is good, because so far it has been prescribed that the local self-government unit introduces the obligation of the spider service and then the police must give up their official who must be in the vehicle, etc. I think this will help local self-government units to better organize this service. The proposed law should guarantee the effectiveness and focus the criminal policy blade on offenders who harshly violate traffic regulations which could directly affect the reduction of the number of traffic accidents and traffic accidents. For these reasons, I feel that this law should also be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17946	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Sima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17947	Thank you very much. I think it would be a good idea if we were dealing with the exact data so we could stick to the exact data. In fact, a colleague said that since 96 C.E., for the first time since 2003, a large increase in the number of deaths has been recorded. That's not true. In 96, 721 were killed, 77. 714, and last year 701. So, otherwise, there's a lot going on around this law with half the information. Here we could say I'm going to take a little more time to hear the information that gets the most killed in the snow, that's the most accident. Wrong. When it snows, the least it's an accident. Therefore, both for the sake of the public and for the quality of this law, it was good to deal with the correct data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17948	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. He's gone, so he lost his right. Mr. Zeljko Krapljan's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17949	The Honored Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Ministers with Associates, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have a road safety law ahead of us, but before we start talking about it, I'd like to say a few more words about the still applicable law, and I'd like to touch a few misdemeanor measures. The legal penalties under the current law for non-appropriation are 50 kuna. For non-binding safety belt is 100 kuna, and the biggest fine under the influence of alcohol is 500 kuna. Why am I saying that? For one simple reason, because when we see indicators in the last 10 years of what happened in the Republic of Croatia from 1994 to 2003, 6 thousand 977 people died in transport in the Republic of Croatia. While in the same car accidents, he was injured as severely as possible, as easily as 196,000 650 people with enormous material damage. In order to reduce this kind of indicator, we need to pass a new, much better and more preventive law. In the proposed proposal of the Road Safety Act in relation to the provisions of the current law, the following newspapers are most important. The law pays particular attention to young drivers from 18 to 20 years of age. Those who now suffer largely in traffic accidents, and young drivers are limited to speed, and a 75 kilowatt car is banned from driving, and a vehicle from 23 to 05 or 5 in the morning without escorts. Why am I repeating my date? And today, we've heard more than once and I'm thinking, and I'm thinking, maybe even more about the escorts, and I should take a little time to think, because I'm going back to a part of my youth and I'm thinking if I were this young driver now, who and in what way in two years would be with me in what way to drive, say, at night, and I'm thinking it might be good to cut that deadline to maybe six months, because already through all these measures of restrictions that we're reducing speed and reducing the limits of the car's cubicity and to all these possible measures and introducing alcohol for both the old and the young percentage means zero changes, I'm thinking that we should see in which way we might at least come across these young drivers. But perhaps in order to make it more transparent and more visible, I suggest that it be a label, for example, as the car schools have the letter "L", so that forward, in front of the glass and behind, it would mean a mark to show that it is a young driver, in a way not only so that other traffic participants might have consideration for him and that in some ways the police would notice and notice such drivers better. The material provisions of the current text of the law have been corrected and supplemented in such a way that they are more understandable and clear with a view to greater efficiency for transport safety. Local or regional self-government units shall be authorised to organise, in accordance with the regulations, the performance of certain operations, control and traffic management. That's normal for us to think of cities and municipalities. In order to protect the environment, the obligations of drivers and other road users are more precise. On the prohibition of leaving or throwing objects or waste on the road and roadland, and damaged and durable vehicles on the road and other surfaces. I think it's finally good for this law to be resolved, because we're still a tourist country and it's a shame to see so many wrecks and I think that finally these measures will make something happen to get it off our roads. I would suggest that when you register a vehicle, you try to find a solution to see who didn't pay all the criminal penalties, because why do I suggest that? Because in 2000, the tax administration put down one guideline, that under 500 kuna it did not go into forced payment. Normally, if it had been heard, it had been reported, and the persons who had been punished, they would have written a complaint, a complaint, and eventually it would have come out of date. And what does that mean? That for our state budget, there's less money automatically. I think it's very and easily possible to import it computerly today, meaning a police violation procedure, who's doing it with a vehicle inspection station, you can see that the person didn't pay for it, you can't register a vehicle until you've settled all the obligations. And I think that might work out very well. The age limit of validity of the driving licence is extended from 65 to 75 years of age, with its replacement every 10 years. Oversight of the work of car schools and driving exams is transferred to the MUP. And the driving exams in the future will be conducted in the test centres set by the MUP, where driving licences will be issued, I think it's a good solution for candidates and I think it will be simpler and far faster. The obligation to wear a safety helmet for bike drivers up to 16 years of age is introduced, and for walking at night on unexposed roads outside the settlement it is prescribed to carry reflective markings. It shall be more precise when and in what cases it may be excluded from the traffic of the driver and the vehicle, and the mode and procedure of exclusion. The newspaper introduces the exclusion of riders and passengers of mopeds and motorcycles if they do not wear a helmet. A ban is imposed and a penalty for using mobile phones for drivers at the time of driving. I think it's really necessary, because what someone says is neither free hands nor free heads. Especially most people read, watch messages, and there's no way they can see it. So this measure should be introduced, and some of us also have personal experience in this. The installation and use of devices which may interfere with traffic control devices shall be prohibited. I think the legislator here meant popularly called cobras, these are devices that respond in time and warn that radar control, automatically brake and stop, bypass radar, move on. But this old law so far has absolutely not been resolved nor mentioned, and then there was a solution to introduce customs offences, because these were devices that could only be solved in this way, so when imports were not reported only through customs offences it could be excluded from use. A complete ban on the proportion of alcohol in the body shall be introduced when operated by the vehicle. And the penalty is only a fine to the maximum penalty provided for in this law. I believe that's the only real solution because the young lives and these figures I've mentioned to the greatest part are alcohol guilt and behind that, we all know well after a glass, two, three, or not to say five that alcohol improves speed and then unfortunately there's a tragedy for the individual, for the family and for the state. We're all aware of how much the state invests in an individual, how many families and ultimately what we see on our roads happens every day. I'll give you an example from my town of Sisak where we're having discussions to edit the training range of freight vehicles and car tanks. INA Sisak is ready to give up land and the HAK should take control of the polygon. We have cases of young drivers laying down for the truck, laying down ADR and he taking, driving a tanker and unfortunately a little, little on the cover we see a tanker landing off the road, truck etc. I think this is one of the solutions that this young driver also has a chance to learn and hold that it should be dealt with legally. I wouldn't be long. I can see it's about time. Thank you. And I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17950	Thank you. The word is represented by Mr Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17951	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Since I've spoken several times today, my attitudes are quite clear, so I'm going to look no longer. In 2002, in two readings, we discussed a similar bill. He went to the third reading, unfortunately we never brought it. Then the phonograms are what was said then in the Parliament, it was in the last term. I claim that I was saying the same thing, and that's why it doesn't matter to me now who's proposing but what I'm proposing but I have to admit that many colleagues have changed their rhetoric, their views and their views on things in the meantime. I really think we're all threatened by a small group of unconscious or unfortunate drivers. I said that it would include those who have five to seven criminal points and they do everything, so 0.7% of the driving population in Croatia and they are the ones who mistreat everyone else. As a result, there is also the fact that Croatia on the 100 thousand inhabitants I think is 13 dead, in the European Union the average is about 9 in order for our goal to be closer in the next seven, eight years at least to 100 thousand 10 in Croatia. I'd just say that there's been a mention here that it's a broader social context and that it's not just a repression. Well, it's a normal thing. I don't think first, and I don't think anyone smart should stand behind inauguring repression as a method in Croatia that would in itself lead to something that would be effective in this solution, in solving this huge problem if they took it as such. But really, let's not beat ourselves up. We are the society that we are 50%, or we are the educated society. In addition to thousands of years of Croatian culture, there is a thousand-year-old Croatian culture, there is primitiveism, there is what exists in society, there are 50% of people who would not enter our education structure but are educated not to say that we do not have to, so it can also be savage with college, master's degree and doctorate, but therefore everything that exists in society reflects on the driving population, let's say so, and let's not be surprised, so neither does that segment look at the isolation of society. It is only a reflection of what our society is, and that is the general problem and one problem that has a number of its segments but the fact that we are in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian Parliament in the legislative body and our job is to pass laws. I absolutely respect everything else, but at this point, we're passing a law that's probably going to affect it in some way, and I think we need as positive a way to solve this problem as possible to change this tragic balance. The fact is that we live in a society where when there are big football derbys, I don't say that for anything, then there are no laws in Split or in law when cheerleading groups come out then there are no red or green traffic lights, no law applies whether it's victory or defeat, whether it's joy or sadness, but the savagery doesn't die. The fact is, we haven't solved it. The fact is that some very democratic societies have solved it like an English society in the way they have resolved the laws among other things. That's why I think anyone who acts irresponsiblely, who kills two girls in the middle of Makarska at a walking crossing, has to bear the consequences for it. I took this as one example that I've just come up with, but the fact is that the weekends have become, just turn on the TV and watch how many will be dead. Was it ever good so there weren't more than five, in quotes a good normal thing. So these are these tragic figures. And that's why I support the tightening of the fines, the tightening of penalties, not thinking that naked repression as a repression is some method that in itself gives results, but I say once again let's not forget that 97.3% of drivers are normally acting and others are terrorizing less everything. This is where the young people were mentioned. It's a normal thing to talk with caution about young people so they don't get it wrong, but it's also a fact that they're participating disproportionately with their participation in the population, that's a fact. There's no proportion. Far more than they participate in the driving population, they participate and cause car accidents with the most serious consequences of what smart people say that something should be done and treated with all respect because I equally respect both the old and the young, because in our newspaper she knows how to write died what I know, she says they killed even women and old people as if men and adults weren't human beings. The loss of every life is terrible regardless of sex, year and so on. But the fact is that we need to approach this group with attention because it behaves in the way it behaves in traffic, and that shows the results that almost 30% of the most severe accidents are involved, and there are not so many in the population. There's about 7% in the driver's population somewhere. So there's disproportionate. She has several times 200-300% more in accidents with the most severe consequences than she has. It means they're more aggressive. Why is that? I can't go in now, we could go in here and I don't know what kind of sociological, psychological, and I don't know what kind of philosophical analysis, but the fact is that we here as legislators have to do something. There's been a lot of mention and there's been a lot of misunderstandings. I'm sure this shouldn't be a party thing. I'm going to give an example of a country, I think it's in Finland, someone mentioned it. That's where the car is taken away. So no one's gonna say that the Finns are primitive barbarians who use repressive methods to hit their citizens with police force. They didn't do it for nothing. In societies where alcoholism is highly developed you have and like this, not to list societies, not to offend any foreign force, these problems are being solved. Among other things, high sentences. Among other things, when you commit that kind of traffic violation in an alcoholic state, you go to psychiatry for the first 20 days, and then you talk to him. Because they think a healthy or normal person can't do that. You have such societies, otherwise they are classified as very democratic societies. On the other hand, I think it would be a good idea for this to go into two readings, and I especially appreciate my colleague Arlovic's argument about the inconsistencies of certain things that I am as a man who is not a lawyer could understand. I'm not getting into that part right now. I'm only talking about what was intentional and me when I spoke in the last meeting, I'm saying the same thing, everyone can check it out no matter what party suggested. So that's what this is all about, it's just that it's all about breaking the law in relation to the offenders of this guy because it's also one of the ways that it's probably partly affecting to prevent what's going on on on the road. I passed from Zagreb to Split today and again in Tušilovici, which is almost incomprehensible, there are warnings, the police and everything, on that most flat part again accident. So there's those again, even though they're written there, they're down to a maximum of 40, to 50, and they're going to cross again. And you just, the normal thing is, one, today wasn't such a big traffic, but he put someone else at risk, hit another car, maybe hurt someone, killed someone, etc. What do you say about that to a man? Well, it's clear to me that now he's not some killer who's going to ask to kill someone, but he ended up killing someone out of trouble. And it must be sanctioned and anyone who thinks it can behave like that must be warned that we as legislators will not allow it without being punished for it. And that's why I support such measures so that there are no misunderstandings. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17952	I would like to thank Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. We have a correction to Mr. Florian Boras' incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17953	A respected colleague, holding some papers, stated that it had been a phonogram since last year: "Many colleagues have changed rhetoric. For God's sake, there's a rhetoric, some other colleagues, and now there's another one.". I didn't expect there'd be any sparks like this on this subject. But again, I will remind my respected colleague in this House, in this assembly of 57 HDZ MPs, they have never been representatives. Therefore, it is not true and it is not possible that many colleagues here have changed the rhetoric and you have changed the paper you have shown, read it and see your rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17954	It could hardly be, it could be difficult to put this in order to correct an incorrect assumption because, despite 57, there are nine others who could speak and now speak to one another. So,...... They could have, I'm not saying they were, but they could have, so as much as Mr. Jurovic might be right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Possibly. Potentially. Well, it's possible more. So it's possible that it's more than 9. There's more, there's more replicas, Mr. Ivan Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17955	I thank Mr. Chairman, although I agree with my colleague Boras in full, however, my colleague Jurjevic said very sympatheticly that he did not die. And to that, I agree with you, but I thought it was convenient to respond, that is to say, to continue the thought but people are killed, so people are killed, but today we're more focused on people who are killed, you said it well, and I agree with that, but very little today we talked about all those who didn't die but who are unhappy, so, in traffic. So, let's say in one, according to one of the world's statistics annually for 2002, a million and 200 thousand people died but were disillusioned, in the sense that the disabled of this or that degree were 20 to 50 million, so this is all, this is all for the benefit of this discussion that I agree with and join, therefore, to all those who have shown here the need to adopt this Act and by an urgent procedure, and I would also like to say that alcohol also reduces reflexes at a minimum concentration, so it does harm. Therefore, we can now discuss the fact that we can leave a symbolic punishment from neither I nor I to 0.5 prominences but certainly put it into the law that the use of alcohol while driving is prohibited for people to be aware of it. Also Articles 175 and 179, you've touched that part too, so I'd just look back at them, regulate road assistance. I think it is very important to draw attention to them, therefore, it is known that many people lose their lives because of an untimely, incorrectly provided media aid and very often and not professionally. It would therefore be good to connect, align this segment with emergency medical assistance, the organisation of emergency medical assistance in this segment and best in this case, given Croatia's spaciousness in terms of roads, etc., and the distance of medical centres to be helicopter transport. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17956	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Jurjevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17957	In fact, I agree with what my colleague Bagaric was saying in order to add that there is one thing that we have not talked about about about is the insolvence of those who do not stop to help those who are unhappy when there is no police or first aid. They were, they used to be, they were simulated doll accidents, and that's punishable, not stop and not help. And here we have a very bad situation regarding our consciousness and our obligations to the wounded. And as for these phonograms, I thought of both political sides to be clear, on both political sides, now I'm saying... There were more political sides, but we understand each other, both of us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I was so rude that I literally read parts of what I was saying, so, in 2003, 2002, so I was saying the same thing, and I thought that's why I was saying the same thing. And some of them are on both sides, on both sides. .../ The speaker did not azumey.... on all sides changed their opinions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17958	It's nice to hear we're all wrong less. Here we are, we're done with these corrections and replicas. Now 10 minutes Mr. Representative Branimir Pasecky
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17959	President, this is one for Croatia's serious topic should not take place on two sides, as I have heard here now. I think there has to be only one side here, one desire but maybe different approaches, different thinking. Thank God that there is no big difference in this debate, and that there is a rare unique desire to ensure a safer life on the roads. And I absolutely support all those harsh decisions and punishments, rigors, for sure it has to be, penalties must be imposed, pardon me, for there are people you can't even convince other than severe punishments. But that was very much said, and as much as is said in what else here I just mean a few words. I live in a region where wine is a cult and where it is customary to consume wine or alcohol. I can't imagine a Frenchman not having a glass of wine. That's why they're neither such nor measures in France. We refer to the Irish as an example of everything, and there's as much as 0.7 or 8 percent, it's gone. I'm against people who are considered cleaners because I don't think it's gonna work out and be a cleaner, and I don't think that's good. No, the wine is not my vice, nor am I an addict, but let's just say today at lunch I drank a nice gemist because it's my custom. And now to Jastrebarski I have 30 kilometers or 20. What I should be sleeping in Zagreb now to get sober tomorrow to Jastrebarsko, I think it's absurd. That's why I'm also a signator of an amendment here that's much more tolerated than what's required in the bill. That's what this debate is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17960	Replica, a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17961	My colleague said he couldn't be here when it comes to these things, two sides. And that's absolutely true and that's what you see here and the SDP Club, almost everyone supports with certain observations of the law. But here's a few days ago when we discussed I repeat the Penal Code regarding road traffic security and which is talking about exactly what we are discussing here today. So more about these things, so there have been serious consequences, to death, to severe damage to human health and the body, you have smoothly refused the proposed article endangering traffic by dangerous action and means and left in the Penal Code a senseless and shamelessly low penalty for the severe fatal consequences that are nowhere in but in Croatia. That you can kill in traffic at 15, 20 people that the maximum penalty is 5 and 8 years, respectively. Well, there's 15 years in Montenegro for heavy car accidents. One Croat is responsible for a serious car accident in Montenegro's prison. And then you didn't think like that. Then there were two sides. Or at all, so there's a question. When you think about it like that, do you really care about the situation changing because it's the law that acts more at the border of prevention. So when it comes to non-compliance with regulations and not to heavy accidents about whom, we don't speak a word of it. And that's why I want to make another point. This is all that was mentioned in the opening statement in the light of this bill, Mr. Minister should be delivered to the Ministry of Justice because this is an explanation for the amendments to the Penal Code more than for the changes in traffic, this offence. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17962	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Branimir Pasecky.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17963	Please, ma'am, I'm talking today about the law that's the subject of this debate. I wasn't talking about past law or looking back at last year's snow. ... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17964	Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17965	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, apparently this shock of dying on the roads and every evening obituaries that are published in informative media cannot leave anyone indifferent, so I guess the fact that there are 40 reported on this topic also testifys to the importance of looking for the right solutions and the right solutions that we are talking about, about this war that we have lost on the roads of Croatia, to at least mitigate it in its consequences. The proposals of these laws offered, the solutions offered in these laws, the penalties, the strictness of the rules, and I would say even non-critical optimism about solving through this Law of these serious problems, seem to me not to solve and complete this story of this important aspect of every society's social life, so of course our own. Some here today see the adoption of this Law as a revolutionary solution, a revolutionary step. It's even said that we were late to bring it in, and that its earlier adoption might lead to saving a few people's lives especially young. Or that optimism that after the law is passed, death will stop running our roads. Of course, that optimism was neither proven nor justified, and it led to optimism that so far there were no laws or regulations as if we had not. But I'd say things are still quite the opposite. We've had laws so far. We've had restrictions so far, we've had preventive programs so far. We've had high sentences so far. And what haven't we had so far, and why don't we have it now? Starting with the knowledge that such knowledge is hard to acknowledge in this country. The laws don't follow. Labour laws are being violated, health laws are being broken, construction, fishing are being set up, and why should these laws governing the area of transport security not be violated? The question arises: Is there any particular reason why we in Croatia have less respect for regulations, we have listened to examples of others in Europe? We've also heard examples of those from Europe who come here and break regulations. And vice versa. Is it just a matter of low sentences, is it a matter of expected impunity for noncompliance and perhaps a question of whether drastic regulations, drastic sanctions and repression can be changed at all? I think so. But I also think not crucially, and especially not as the only mechanism of influence on social behavior. This social behavior is influenced by an extremely large number of factors. From those individuals, we are not all equal to the factors of the natural and social environment, culture, tradition, and, in particular, the general sense of belonging to the community and the willingness and respect of social regulations. The Croatian society is unfortunately a very low level society of so-called social capital or social trust in the institutions of society, in the values of society and common principles of order. We live as sociologist Dürcken would say in an anemic society. With a sense of high depravity of people and infidelities and in the own realisation of their own strengths and their own capabilities and precisely this fluid and undefined structure of values prevents the establishment of common acceptable rules of conduct for all. I'm afraid there's nothing in this country that's unquestionable. Nothing is a moral imperative and nothing is general good and general well-being. Everything we could do in that respect, we had a chance to take down the crash in a decade and a half behind us. There was a system that was what it was like, it had some value and we couldn't get new patterns to say generally acceptable values. We have no common concept of honor or honesty or hard work, we have no tolerance for fair life, of value of health, of life and so on. Homeland, humanity. These are all values interpreted in duplicate and double in different ways in Croatian society. In the context of this law, I would like to say to everyone that, in the context of this law, I have observed the laws that, in the case of, uh, border penalties for non-compliance with the law. But not by the illusions that what reflects the deep structure of society can be solved without the same profound change in the very causes of these structures. Personally, I don't believe in the power of repression, but I believe in the power of the deep values and principles that the Poles bear and live on. Without keeping social responsibility and voluntary acceptance of these social regulations completely safe from all participants and solving the problems of trust in the institutions, we will not solve problems. In that sense, I do believe that it really means a little bit to have a good law if every offender or a large part of those offenders in their driver's license holds 200 kuna, counting in advance that they will corrupt a policeman. Or the motto means regulations, laws, in a country where a cult of rules has been kept for centuries. In which this hiducan ethos and life was given if I said outside the law, was a sign of courage, a sign of resistance and freedom. And in which it was awfully polite to be rude to the state because the state was also inequitable to the citizens. I warn in fact about the complexity of the problem, which generates then a lot of bad and negative in Croatian society, not only when it comes to the security of co-operation, because it is precisely in traffic more than in any other social sphere that most drastically punishes the disrespect of slowed norms and regulations. In a second, disrespect for the rules is paid by head and life, and that's why it's most visible. In other segments of social life it is also present but not so drastically punishable. So I really think colleagues and colleagues, that in this debate, in the context of these proposals put forward in the proposal, both the two and the third laws should support everything that is in the way of strengthening security. Which is on the verge of a threat prevention. But it's not enough to repeat everything that's been said here, without raising the awareness of belonging to a community where regulations have to be respected, and this has to be done broadly, we're not going to succeed in this project either. And that's why he can't be campaigning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17966	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17967	Mr. President, here's a brief statement from our esteemed colleague in a qualitative debate, among other things, I quote. It means a little bit to have a good law. On the contrary, it is very important in this area to have good law and good solutions in the first place so that later and what you have been talking about can be implemented in a quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17968	Dear Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17969	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm really happy with today's debate and I'm glad that most colleagues really discussed that this is one of the biggest problems we have in common, and if it seems to me that no one specifically mentioned it, I would say. The car is a general dangerous thing and as such a thing must be managed or used is the way the legislator prescribes it but I will also be free to say it with as many restrictions as possible. I'm sorry that we spent so much time in the debates that it can be drunk if it's intended to drive a vehicle. Is it nothing if it's 0.5 or it's the 03rd and so on. However, I think our message to the Croatian public and Croatian drivers should be clear. Exactly what President Sanader told the opening speech if you don't drink if you don't drive. And that's our message. Will medically say that this is 0.2, 03 that's a different question, but I don't think we should discuss these issues in such a scientific way that we stick to these two basic postulates, so the car is a general danger and about drinking consumption of some other opiates or something else means the message is clear. Do not take anything that can reduce your concentration when using or managing this general dangerous thing. But I want to say something more detailed about another segment, which is either speed or better said overspeed. On page 5 of this proposal, the Government's proposal for the Law clearly states that the unprescribed speed and speed of inappropriate conditions usually take part from about 31 to 35% in traffic accidents. Or even with a share of 45 to 46.6% in those most severe car accidents, so in those human casualties accidents. And that's why I think speed is exactly the part of that chapter of this Law where it's never enough or restrictive and other measures. Thinking about how he solves it except for those proposed solutions in the law that I certainly support. I remembered the events of the race formula 1 namely this event which is less all we follow and where cars are fastest and where speeds are a special problem. So there were mostly no restrictions there, but when they started having traffic accidents on one of their throats, so people get hurt, and that's the famous boxing, then there's a speed limit of 80km per hour in that box. No fines could force the drivers of Formula 1 to abide by that restriction. Everyone's gone a little over the top, and the problem hasn't been solved even though they've been paid fines in millions of dollars. The most effective punishment that has followed and is still being applied today is the penalty of ten seconds of detention in boxing. So, if you're overdrive 81 then in the next few laps you have to stop in boxing and stay 10 seconds. On that trail, I have proposed my amendment, so here's Mr. Minister, especially if you'd care to consider it carefully, and the government in particular, because I think he'll be the best way to prevent the savages on our roads. I propose, in this amendment, that for every kilometer of speeding, drivers should be told, therefore, to impose a mandatory exclusion of traffic within one minute one kilometer of overrun. What would that mean? That means if you're over 30 kilometers an hour allowed speed that a cop needs you or has to shut you down for 30 minutes off traffic. It's technically very easy to spend and I wouldn't be wasting my time explaining it to you right now, I think you and your associates will find solutions. We've already talked about it, what I could look at my amendment most agree to, it's possible to prescribe a possibility, can be said. I am asking you very much to consider this amendment, and I would especially like you to support it. I will end up with a message to both the public and our Croatian public and drivers. Since Rome, there has been a saying: "Festination of Lenta" - hurrying slowly. It is also a message to Croatian drivers and it is a message that I am going to spread a little bit in order to order everyone, the fastest ride is to allow traffic signs and the message is the faster you drive to the goal you will arrive later, and if you drive too fast you will never arrive at the goal most often. Here, Mr. President and Mr. Minister, I would very much like for this amendment to be accepted, and I think it will make a significant contribution to road safety and, in particular, to reducing the number of traffic accidents with the most difficult consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17970	Replica esteemed representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17971	So we've heard all sorts of suggestions about this bill, so Damir Cain suggested in his debate that the work of disco clubs be banned, but he didn't give the amendment. Here we have an amendment that follows this debate of colleagues Boras, which stands out by its creativity and imagination, which is that the driver is excluded from traffic for one minute for every one mile, and then he will be excluded from traffic for 30 minutes if he has exceeded the permitted speed. And first, who controls that he's off? So the cop's keeping an eye on him until the 30 minutes are up and he's doing nothing else. And secondly, what does that driver do when 30 minutes are up? Well, try to make up for those lost minutes, so get there as fast as you can when he gets here. Therefore, Minister Mlinarich I ask you most seriously not to take this amendment for consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17972	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17973	Well, really, the replica itself is the best answer to the replica. This philosophy actually says, assumes incompetent police, inefficient administration, etc. And it is your police would not be able to implement this measure, this measure is enforceable, it is prescribed, the minister has explained, there are instructions, this is only one supplement and try not to exceed the speed after this amendment has been adopted and you will see how... it will be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17974	Dear representative Ljubica Lalić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17975	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here at the center of my debate won't be allowed to drink, but I think I need to speak a few words. Not so many years ago, it was hard to believe that roads would become an integral part of our lives because it was only going a long way with great dangers and adventures. Today, however, few people can imagine life without a car. By studying the statistics on the number and causes of traffic accidents in the Republic of Croatia, we find a huge number of traffic accidents in the 1990s and their gradual reduction in the next few years and growth, etc. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Proposal in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act stated that the direct application of the law over the past six years has resulted in enviable results as evidenced by the reduction of the number of people killed in traffic accidents. With that emphasis, a total increase in the number of traffic accidents is mentioned. Here we ask the question of how immediate application of the law can affect the reduction of the number of deaths in traffic accidents in view of the rolling stock of Croatian citizens eight years ago and today. It is clear that the characteristics and equipment of the vehicle can have a significant impact on the reduction of the number of persons killed, but also on the quality of the roads. We need to worry further about the facts that arise from answering the following questions. What caused the total number of traffic accidents to increase? Why has the number of people injured more easily and more severely increased in car accidents? Why are young drivers or new drivers involved in 35% of traffic accidents? Why does the number of participants in alcohol - affected accidents keep increasing? What is the increase in the number of car accidents in professional drivers? It is obvious that in certain structures there is a blame for this state of security as we have today, so the obligation of all those who can in any way influence the increase in traffic safety is to contribute to the reduction of traffic accidents. According to statistics, the Republic of Croatia had far more dead persons according to the number of vehicles than many countries, European countries. A little less, twice as many died in us were from Spain, Slovenia and France, and three times more than Italy, Finland, the Netherlands, Germany up to eight times as much as Norway. Furthermore, the number of deaths per capita is higher by 30% in Croatia than in Germany and Italy, and almost twice as much as in Finland and the Netherlands and almost quadruple over Norway. So how in our country to reduce the number of traffic accidents and increase road safety is the issue. The fact that it's caused in the largest number of traffic accidents is a combination of speed and alcohol. It is also a fact that the largest number of accidents happen on the weekends and that they are made by new drivers. In this direction, more rigorous prevention measures should be taken. The fact is that police patrols and traffic control in the night hours of the weekend are almost gone. On the other hand, the greatest effect of achieving the desired goal in reducing traffic accidents is fines. It is positive that the new law would drastically increase fines, yet the most important thing is their realisation that is hampered by the very slow and overloaded judiciary. Furthermore, so far the penalties have been so small that they have often not been charged because ultimately the cost of forced execution is more expensive than the amount to be realised in the process. The proposal is for all available police officers to be on Croatian roads and sanction any traffic violation committed in the beginning of this law. If such a procedure lacks the number of police officers, the proposal is and can be realised, of course, to hire a new one. Furthermore, an important factor in increasing road safety is... driving tests. In the 10th year, driving tests from the part of the vehicle management shall be carried out on the commission made up of one single member, i.e. Authorised interviewer of the Croatian Autoclub who has the right to sign a conviction of the submitted driving test on the basis of which a driving licence is obtained. For example, we will compare this procedure to one example from the judiciary. There was a judicial dispute between two persons related to the disappearance of two sacks of wood. A judge and jury are required to be present at the time of a court ruling. Therefore, if in this second case several people may attend where in the worst case scenario, in this first case, only one person is present in the fate of one life. The reason is that the experience so far has led to the fact that authorised interrogators are often too subjective to decision on the outcome of the driving test. The training of candidates for previous drivers is the conduct of driving tests conducted by auto-schools. Today, there are almost 500 of them in Croatia, and several thousand driving instructors. The driving instructor has the task of passing on his knowledge and experience to the future potential driver, and of developing his awareness of driving, the consequences of traffic accidents, transport culture and all other factors that can affect safe driving management. We suggest a change in the way in which the title of driving instructors is acquired for the reasons that I believe that he must be an authoritative person with advanced pedagogical and psychological consciousness and an educational educational mode of work. Today, a driving instructor can be anyone who wants to. And not underestimating anyone, but for example, if someone has studied the baker's trade, they will enroll in a private school that is qualified as a driver, they will end up in a few months and enroll in a driving instructor's school that can also be private and end in a few months. So, if I am today, no one finds himself offended, a baker or a locksmith in a year can become a driving instructor and train candidates for drivers. The same people, whether they're driving instructors or not, can open a car school. The conditions for opening private school today are not complicated at all, what does 600 car school data in Croatia say, but what do we get? For traffic security certainly not, to increase the number of traffic accidents probably yes. Why? Many today open car school exclusively for the purpose of meeting their personal needs and financial benefits. A trade or company shall be registered, the conditions for the opening of a car school as regards material and teaching resources shall be met with a lease or a lease and shall be started at work. This marginalises and destroys persons fighting for quality training of candidates and providing top-level services through material and teaching means. I propose that order be put in place in auto-schools and that only one that meets the conditions for the opening of an auto-school, which must be identical to those prescribed by the European Union countries. This is also an important factor in achieving the objective of transport security. Furthermore, how do you solve the problem of professional drivers? Often, we have witnessed a car accident caused by a professional driver in some part of Croatia. The consequence of such a type of traffic accident with all the common consequences of the threat of nature, i.e. the possibility of creating an ecological disaster. I cite an example of traffic accidents when due to the unadjusted speed or inexperience of the driver, oil or oil on roads that often pass through natural landscapes, rivers, lakes and the like. I also mention the transport of fuel, dangerous substances, explosives and the like. It is unacceptable for drivers who have passed a driver’s test for driving a personal car for only 10 teaching hours on a truck, and for an additional 5 teaching hours on a trailer truck to become professional drivers and manage heavy motor vehicles for a few 10-tonnes of heavy load. Changing this way of training professional drivers would certainly increase traffic safety. I'll mention here and so much unfortunate alcohol. The fact is, the most traffic accidents are just because of him. However, as I said, the center of my exposure will not be alcohol, we have heard enough of it today, but what I have stated is enough to suggest that this Law should not be passed in an emergency procedure. These are sufficient reasons for the Law to go to another reading to find the best solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17976	Thank you very much. Dear representative Milanka Opačić. She's gone. Miroslav Rozic. He's gone, on behalf of the club. Please, Minister of the Interior, Marijan Mlinarić, for the final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17977	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. These discussions almost all day long about this Transport Safety Act talk enough about the importance of this law and talk enough about how well we are all aware of the situation that is happening on our roads. We listened carefully and recorded all your remarks. We have to say that this is not a practical first reading because two readings were already similar laws and all those remarks that were mostly incorporated into this Law on these two readings in the former congregation. So by estimating all this, one more reading, we wouldn't get the perfect law that would be for eternity. We might get some nuance, but in any case, it wouldn't be such an improvement to how important it is for us to get one consistent law in time. We still have the tourist season ahead of us. Already this debate all day long, already these discussions through the press through all these days before, we already have indications on our roads that the offense is less, that the accident is less and that death is less. So, with all the good intentions of passing the best law, I think it's a little bit of a shame for us to bring it in by emergency procedure and start implementing it, to arrange for it to be 14 days or 3 weeks, how much adjustment it's going to be to bring in sublegal acts, etc. However, we must say that we have passed the law already only that the law has been passed, but only the knowledge that it is much stricter, that sanctions are much stronger than so far and most importantly, that they are enforceable. Because a lot of people have said so far that the Law from before has not been bad, but it has been inconclusive just because of the inability to comply with the Law of Infractions where we are despite the fact that the police, here, are constantly talking about the lack of police. We had compared to last year at the same time 30% more criminal charges than last year. 30%. But, gentlemen, dear, a million misdemeanors stand in court unsettled. And no one almost wanted to pay the fine on the spot anymore because he knew, because he knew that the appeal would bring his misdemeanor into obsolescence. And if it is less than 500 kuna that it will not be forced to pay because the Ministry of Finance has had higher costs of charging those fines than they have brought themselves. We therefore predict that we will also jump this way that all criminal penalties will be entered into the central computer that will give to all technical inspection stations data on violations, paid for violations with one small star will be regulated that someone who has not paid for the offence will not be able to register the vehicle. We'll charge our courts largely because they'll know they won't be able to register the vehicle if they don't pay the fine. There is one possibility that it will be arranged to be in accordance with the law, only the fines imposed, these penalties I'm talking about, will not be able to register the vehicle unless he pays the penalty. So we have to jump to it, in every way possible to get the impression that we can do what we want and that no one will be punished anyway, and no one can be punished or that a huge part of those penalties will go out of date, what has been so far. So we have carefully listened to all these remarks, a group that has worked on the law will consider all the objections and all that is in the spirit of this Law, in the spirit of this concept we will accept and we believe that by further delaying this Law, we would have achieved nothing because we saw that no matter what the last term was, there were two readings of the Amendments and the addition of the Law, the number of violations and the number of accidents continued to grow, and today we have this terrifying figure of which the hair rises on our roads and we think that without such a law that will be passed and we promise that we will not be able to implement order on our roads. So I appeal once again to all MPs to be in favour of this Law because we are all responsible for seducing order on our roads and that exactly what many have said, it is only 7% of unconscious drivers who terrorise their behavior by the vast majority of other drivers who adhere to the rules and regulations that they cannot be the ones who determine such fate on our roads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17978	Thank you very much, Minister. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative, Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17979	Mr. President, I really have no intention of fiddling, but I'm afraid that the minister said he would ban vehicle registration for that vehicle, please kindly allow me to say that it's not exactly from the point of view of the bill, there's no such punishment provided for in this Act, incorrectly claims the minister will be banned from registering a vehicle unless the owner of the vehicle paid the penalty, it's not in the law. In other words, if you do not pay taxes for the house you will be banned from using the house, it is property of pardon the President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17980	Okay. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17981	Of course it is not in this law but I have said how we will try to jump precisely to gain the impression that Croatia is now in Croatia that the penalty does not have to be paid. The vehicle registration regulation, under the specific conditions already in place, will be that we will now have a binding and that you must precisely write to you in that vehicle registration regulation specific conditions that need to be met in order to register vehicles, and now, among other things, under these conditions, it will be necessary to pay penalties which have been duly ruled. So, we're not talking about any kind of crime or anything, we're talking about those who are just as powerful as they are by the police or by the judge.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17982	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected deputy president Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17983	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister said that the regulation would resolve this issue and that the regulation would prescribe that someone would not be able to register until they paid fines, criminal penalties for a motor vehicle. This issue cannot be resolved by the regulation, because it is a matter of new penalties and it is a matter that must be resolved by law and that authority does not have executive authority.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17984	Thank you, gentlemen. I don't think there's any point in discussing the future regulation and some possible future solution in that future possible regulation anymore. I am concluding the debate on the final draft road safety law and on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Infringements. Final bill of road safety, emergency procedure, first and second reading. Legislative number 141. The debate on the text of the law is over. The special table is divided into representatives. I ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Marijan Mlinarić, to be shown about the amendments. Amendment 1 to the honourable representative, Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17986	The amendment is not accepted. The decision on the law, the amendment is more specific.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17987	Well, I have to admit, I don't share Mr. Minister's opinion, but if he doesn't need any improvements, or if he doesn't need a promoter, I don't insist. And besides, that amendment is bound by others, so I'm going to show myself about it in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17988	Okay. Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 2. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17989	She's not taking it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The idea of an accident.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17990	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17991	Since an accident is a crime to commit such an accident, then, Mr. Minister, I think this is exactly how it should be defined that there is a difference between that, right? I'm asking for a vote no matter what... [[/Intruder: No, no.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17992	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17993	I think he's giving up or what? She's not taking it, but I think she's giving it up. Oh, no? Okay. The non-acceptance and explanation is the addition of the word “other” would mean that every country road is a public road which does not have to be a case.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17994	Dear Representative Rosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17995	Thank you very much. This can also be interpreted, however, as the fact that there are public roads that are earthling. It is simply a fact that this Law must respect regardless of what miles of highways have been built in the meantime.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17996	Voting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17998	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 4th Amendment of the Club, about the apology of Mr. Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u17999	She's not taking it. Explanation: The law does not particularly take place anywhere, the law does not regulate the traffic of an old timer of a vehicle, therefore there is no need for such a definition. Such vehicles shall participate in transport under the same conditions as all other vehicles, and in the case of organised events, the provisions of Articles 184 to 192 shall apply. Road safety laws. Provisions on temporary registration have been corrected so that the vehicle can be registered on the time limit and upon expiry of the provisional registration shall not be returned to the registration plate for up to one year. until new registration, Articles 249 and 250, paragraph 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18000	Dear Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18001	It's not very clear to me, but I know that those vehicles that are treated like, like, old timers and vehicles that don't have blinkers, which are completely different from these other vehicles, and I don't know which way and I haven't found anywhere in which way you're letting them register. And I'm asking for a vote. [[Intruder: There is, there is.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18002	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 5. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18003	She's not taking it. Explanation: Defining the concept in a proposed way would not improve the quality of the law. An additional confusion would be introduced in its implementation, and only the proposed definition is not precise enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18004	Dear Representative Rožić Miroslav. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18005	Of course we wouldn't have submitted an amendment if we didn't think exactly the opposite of improving this, this amendment to actually improve the quality of the law and what, and what this article actually defines. And unlike colleagues, Josipovic, our Club will demand that we vote on this improvement, and no, we will not give up because you do not accept improvement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18006	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6th Representative Ivo Josipovic. ... _________: [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18007	This bound-up amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18008	Pulled number six. Amendment number 7. IDS representative club. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18009	I know you're giving up. [[(Speakers speaking out loud) You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18010	...we'll give up on that amendment but just to say it would be good if the municipal or city heads were to take account of exactly all of those modalities that are listed in that provision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18011	Because it is not accepted because decisions are made by a representative body from the headship and other executive bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18012	Ministers and MPs can't discuss amendments like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18013	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18014	Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 8 of the I.D.A. club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18015	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18016	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 9 also club representative IDS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18017	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18018	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 10 respected representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18019	It's unacceptable. It is a nomotechnical procedure, a nomotechnical approach which has resolved the penalties of the provisions in this law has been adopted by the Committee on the Legislatives of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18020	Honorable representative Jure Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18021	That I would certainly not give up on this if the motionor did not mind the formation would be punished for the violation of a laundry or physical osbion craft if he did not act or act, so in any case I think it would be good to vote on it, because this norm is likely to be the subject of a convenient anecdotes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18022	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 11 respected representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18023	Unacceptable. We are concerned that this violation, apart from legal persons and natural persons of craftsmen, may also be committed by an individual, should therefore be provided for a criminal provision for such cases.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18024	Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic. Amendment 11 withdrawn. 12 becomes an integral part of the government. 13 parts of the law. 14 respected representatives of Matta Gavran.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18025	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18026	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15 respected intercessor Ivo Josipović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18027	No, it's acceptable. In order to repeat the most difficult pastures, the government has opted for a solution that the court, instead of monetary laws, could impose a prison sentence of up to 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18028	Dear Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18029	This amendment is rightly reflected in two problems, one seems to me quite unmeasured and inappropriate repression for individual offences. And the second is the post-pubovone nature because it is not clear from the formulation of what exists that only the fact of the offence for the second third time is considered a special violation and there is no way the process mechanism is going to solve it at all, I would ask that votes on the amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18030	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you for not getting the necessary majority. 16 club representatives of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18031	It is not accepted, the acceptance of amendments would result in a vague material provision and would not be a clear provision for a detour. The concept of traffic situation can be interpreted differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18032	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18033	So I have to admit that your explanation is really contradictory. Your argument is the rejection of this amendment is essentially contradictory. Because we're just going for something to be defined, with this amendment and you're saying that this definition that's precise for law would not be determined. So I don't know what that argument is, that if you want to define that you're actually trying to make it unclear. But please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18034	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 17 respected representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18035	It is not accepted, the Government has determined that a safeguard measure should be imposed in cases where such a measure is envisaged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18036	Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18037	I again, of course, think it's an immeasurable and unprofile repression, and I would like to ask that an amendment be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18038	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 18 also representing Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18039	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18040	19 club representatives of HSpa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18041	It's unacceptable. The proposed reasons for moving the vehicle are exclusively situations where the parked vehicle threatens or significantly interferes with traffic with the exception of the disabled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18042	I'm really going to ask you to think about what I'm about to say if there's any chance. TO TRY to get into trouble, when you were a paralegal I suppose you faced several times by coming to the Parliament to work to drive to supply a nearby store, blocking traffic right here on Chirilometod Street that can't be passed to the Parliament. And that's how they lock him up for exactly one reason, because they're eating us reserved for a sickle car is an improperly parked car. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18043	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 20 of HSP's advocates' clubs, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18044	Partly accepted, the explanation in Article 84 is replaced by 80 cm in 100 cm in acceptance. The amendment to Article 78 shall also be adopted by adding paragraph 3 to the other proposals the reasons are the same as with the amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18045	Dear Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18046	I'm partially giving up
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18047	Thank you. In an unacceptable piece of the admium withdrawn. 21 also the HSP satellite club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18048	Unacceptable, explanation. it is not accepted because it would be illegal to move is a consequence of the offence and until the liability for the offence has been established there is no charge. In addition to the change in paragraph 3, where each unit of the local administration would independently determine the price, they would have too many differences for exorcisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18049	Mr. Rožić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18050	Can you please explain why part of the amendment relating to paragraph 2 is not accepted? But it's about moving foreign nationals' vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18051	Same reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18052	There's no such dialogue, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18053	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18054	So no explanation has been given why the amendment is not accepted, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18055	The minister gave an explanation. The way he gave it. It can be shorter, longer, we can be dissatisfied with the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18056	Therefore, since the applicant did not show.../the speaker was excluded/... on one part of the amendment, given that the applicant did not show about one part of the amendment relating to item 2 and this is the fact that this law does not provide for sanctioning the movement of a vehicle of foreign citizens, we insist on voting on it at all. Because that way, actually, foreign citizens are allowed to mispark and commit traffic violations, in a way that they mispark their vehicles. Thank you very much. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18057	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 22 representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18058	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18059	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 23 club representatives of the HNS PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18060	It's unacceptable. The foglights are aimed at lighting the wheel with wide force and their use does not interfere with other drivers, therefore there is no penalty.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18061	Agent Lesar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18062	Dear Mr. Minister, the amendment was on a ride in populated places when the fog was gone. But your testimony to this amendment has nothing to do with forgiveness.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18063	Why not? Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18064	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 24 is the government, becoming an integral part of the law. Code 25 of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee. This is where he came from the Maritime, Transport and Liaison Committee to write about the amendments. However, six members of the Committee of nine present objected that the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships adopted conclusions to propose, not amendments, and that these were incorrectly indicated to be amendments. Who has any of the representatives of the Committee who object to that? Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18065	I may have misunderstood, but I am convinced that we have set these committee proposals in the form of amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18066	Okay. We'll easily get out of that situation. Six proposings said they were not adopted as amendments, six members of the board, and there were nine totals. Here you go, buddy Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18067	I would really, since it's not just about this amendment, it's about withdrawing even further, I really think it would be necessary to meet the board, because I realized that we have established it as an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18068	You see, this is a bit of an unusual situation, because it can't be voted on because it's not amendments. They're not amendments. And the report came as from the board. But let's get this over with without the board meeting now what we're supposed to do. Here you go, buddy Tomci.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is a really unusual situation. I'm asking you not to interrupt me, no matter how I've not announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure or anything else. The representatives simply received the minutes of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relations on the benches, which made it clear that these were amendments. The decision of the board may not be withdrawn by signature of individual representatives, members of the board. It's just impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18070	I agree, it's okay, I'm just saying which memo I got from six board members. We're going to the vote. Minister. In the first row, you wrote in article 122, probably referring to article 221. You are writing a tag indicating a young driver, it is described in Article 221. So that's the first mistake in the amendment. So if you're referring to article 221, the amendment can be...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18072	Minister dear, we won't explain ourselves that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18073	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18074	If we think so, if you accept it or do not accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18075	Okay. I don't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18076	Yeah. On behalf of the board, Honorable Representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18077	All right. I'm a member of the board. I'm not talking about these details, and I also think that what the minister says is pretty much exactly what the minister says, it applies to Article 221, but I'm really convinced that we adopted these conclusions in the form of an amendment. It's not just about this, it's about another guy who'll show up later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18078	He's a friend of Peru's. Gentlemen and ladies, the board president is gone. The board president has authorized himself, and he is not present here. Who is for this amendment to the 25 Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 26 becomes an integral part of the government, an integral part of the law. 27 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18079	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18080	It becomes an integral part of the law. 28 Clubs of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18081	It's unacceptable. It is not in line with the European Union guidelines, which prescribes that such a vehicle may draw no more than two trailers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18082	Amendment 28 withdrawn. 29 HNS PGS representatives' clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18083	It's unacceptable. The solution in this article in the draft law is sufficiently precise.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18084	My colleague Lesar?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18085	Nothing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18086	What's the same thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18087	I said nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18088	You said "nothing"?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18089	"Nothing," yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18090	Then nothing, then the amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 30 has been withdrawn. 31 representatives of Dragutin Lesar. 30's been withdrawn, I said. 31 amendments to the Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18091	It's unacceptable. Because winter conditions do not begin in all areas of the Republic of Croatia at the same time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18092	Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18093	This is well known to me, which is why the amendment provides for the minister responsible for transport to determine the territory of the unit of local, regional and regional self-government where this is a time limit for conditions, winter conditions on the road. If you can't see, that's what the amendment says. It does not apply to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia, but to the minister responsible for transport determines where this time limit applies. It says. You may have another amendment, I'm sorry. Let's just compare if it's the same text.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18094	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18096	Please, who's in favor of that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 32 Government becomes an integral part of the law. 33 esteemed representative of Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18097	This is where we said that it is partially accepted if the Minister of Health is thought to be responsible for a sublegal act to prescribe a list of medicines not to be used during and before driving.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18098	Thank you. The MP agrees. So in this amended text, amendments accepted. Amendment 34 to the Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18099	It's unacceptable. We remain with our proposal for Article 199.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18100	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 35 Clubs of IDS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18101	It's unacceptable. We remain with our proposal for Article 199 of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18102	A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18103	The way we set off seems respected, gentlemen, that in the end and in the Bible, we will change everywhere where wine is mentioned. But what we're doing right now, I think it's an unreasonablely harmful solution. All the people expected, but not that someone would ban him or order him to drive at 0.8. Yesterday, it was said that it was against tradition, that it was against Mediterranean culture, the fact that only 7% of the accident happened under the influence of alcohol. However, whether someone is keeping an eye on how insurance companies will be set up after this. She has extra profits anyway, and after this, she'll have no idea which profits, and the citizens will have enormous damage. Anyone who is to be found with 0.1 of alcohol spills will actually have to suffer harm for themselves and for the other. Don't do that, gentlemen, don't do that. It seems that the government does not allow even 0.3 permeations, for if allowed, someone in this House might start thinking for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18104	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 36th, distinguished representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18105	It's unacceptable. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18106	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The intensity of this amendment is actually somewhat different in terms of character and content. A fellow Cain explained in his own way how he views Article 199. I would add one thing to those who are present in public these days, from those whom my colleague Cain mentioned. I would really like to add one very serious thing, which is the fact that Croatia is a tourist country. That there are no countries in the old Europe that come to Croatia in which the 0,0 ratio in terms of alcohol consumption has changed. Gentlemen, I assure you that even when preparing certain foods, alcohol is used in the amount in which you will be outside the law, if you eat that food. And there's plenty of them, if they're, I think, we know what they're talking about. Indeed, we will do one very big damage to Croatian tourism in the season, even in such competition as in the Mediterranean and which in the long term, we will be the reason and cause that we may be called perhaps because of this, too, that we are not on the trail of that competition that we want to create ourselves. I ask you nicely, Mr. Minister, if you can, but all of you respected colleagues. Especially those who have made it clear that you are ready in one compromise precisely for the sake of all of us together and for the sake of the citizens, even for tourism to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18107	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. ... Take it easy, gentlemen. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Slowly, gentlemen, let's not, this isn't a football stadium. I see exactly that he didn't get the necessary majority. ... Well, you know, according to the Rules of Procedure, if the president sees that he hasn't gotten more than half of the present, then that's it, he's being determined. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And if anyone objects that he hasn't won, then we'll count. So we'll count it. So, you have to count it, if you want to count it then we'll count it. Who's up for that amendment? ... Yeah, it's obvious he didn't get most of it. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... He didn't get the necessary majority, thank you very much. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's move on. 37. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18108	It's not accepted as the same...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18109	You don't hear the results, you just get the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18110	In the same way as the previous amendments, Article 199, and as regards the level of penalties, the Proposer is of the opinion that they should be rigorous about the offences committed in the alcoholised state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18111	Well, in our explanation, we've already given our thoughts on why we need to go to this minimum under which we really shouldn't go. Which means, 0.30%. Furthermore, we received phone calls and a letter from Slavonia from where our constituency is, where people are looking to at least ensure a minimum. The second we asked for penalties to be introduced appropriately by the incomes of our citizens, especially second-class citizens, which are pensioners. And we're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18112	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 38th Amendment withdrawn. 39th Amendment of the CNS, PGS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18113	It's unacceptable. It cannot be accepted for the same reason as the other amendments to this article, to 199.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18114	Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18115	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Our amendment... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it would allow the management of the motor vehicle and the participation in the traffic of up to 0,5 alcohol spills. You don't accept this amendment. I am concerned because my colleague Jarnjak said that he is in Croatia's Zagorje 0.5 in the air, so I don't know how this law will be now. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18116	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18117	It's unacceptable. For the amendment to Article 199, the reasons and the previous amendments, and in connection with the proposed new paragraph 9, the reference to an extraordinary medical examination is set out in Article 231 of this Act. 231.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18118	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18119	Therefore, the HSP Club requested that drivers who committed the offence referred to in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 of this famous Article 199. ... must be subject to a psychological examination. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] After the adoption of Article 199, we believe that this may need to be extended to others, not only those who commit a violation of this, but we ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18120	counterpart Rosic, if the minister refused the amendment on behalf of the government, did not accept it, the parliament voted on it. Your conclusion that others should be subject to a mandatory psychological examination also referred to the minister, also referred to those MPs who voted. Leave it alone. You said that very clearly, so that some others might, after refusing to do so...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18121	Mr. President, I don't know...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18122	I didn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18123	I don't know why you're always experiencing everything malignancy... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18124	I didn't give you my word, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18125	I'm saying to others...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18126	I didn't give you my word, Mr. Representative. If it's a misunderstanding, fine. Here you go. Now you can have the word, but you can't take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18127	I don't really know, so, that need of yours to take it all down. I've said to some other articles should be extended, not just to 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4. ... Yeah. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18128	Voting, let's go. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 40th, MP, 41st Agent Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18129	It's unacceptable. If they accepted the amendment, they would practically raise the limit of the alcohol concentration to 0.5. It's unacceptable. If they accepted the amendment, they would practically raise the limit of the alcohol concentration to 0.5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18130	Honorable representative of Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18131	Thank you very much. I am forced, unfortunately, Mr. Minister, to use the last option I have. That's one more time to repeat it again. The damage which unfortunately will be done by one good law is such that it will undo the effects of everything that makes us all together in this hall agree that we should resolve. And that's to increase safety on our roads. But I assure you, and probably a lot of others assures you that this is not the reason why both our citizens and we all together, and our economy needs to suffer damage and it will suffer inexplicably, it will suffer because of the measures of this nature that I am sure 80% of the MPs are not for it, but it would conform to one reasonable variant and it is reasonable for me 0.3 as it is for the rest of the level that it was before. I ask you, and also Mr. President, I ask a five-minute break to be seen for the new elements that are to come because we all thought together that it would come to a limit at least to 0.3% since that variant has unfortunately fallen off we must seriously consider the totality of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18132	On behalf of the HSS Club, thank you very much, five minutes off as requested. They can if they ask, so they asked for five minutes, it's minimum 10 minutes, but you'll be there in five minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I'd like to ask the esteemed representative, Antu Markov, to explain the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18134	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is because of this law, precisely because of everything the honourable minister has been saying, precisely for the sake of the security of all of us, precisely for the sake of all the values that this law contains, that I would like to underline and what the minister has said, and that we all agree, that the most powerful message in the adoption of this Law on Road Safety would be a message of complete credibility of this Parliament, which is a complete consensus and a strong message to the public that those most valuable elements of this law should be passed, to be a strong message to both our citizens and all those who come to Croatia, that Croatia as a country of parliamentary democracy knows and can build and pass laws that are similar to the democratic state. At this very level of debate, wanting to avoid any speculation or any political implications, I would like to say that unless we change and if we all think together that the zero tolerance rate of alcohol is a sure guarantee that there will be no problems on the roads is incorrect, just as it is incorrect that tolerance from 0.3 to 05 will be a reason to be a lot of accidents on our roads. Neither of them are true. Many countries, and above all the countries of Europe, the countries with which we most interact and communicate, the countries that make the most of our tourism, the many tourists that come to Croatia, instead of, I think it is better to lose a little political, party credibility, and to defend the total national credibility, then we should always decide on the general credibility, because it is not acceptable, I assure you, during the tourist season, to change those regulations which are among other things and the kind of legitimacy of Croatia, the tourism legislation in which Croatia is said, in which way it comes to Croatia, which tourists in Croatia expect, which are prices, which are the ways of behaviour in Croatia, such credibility is lost, changing this law in a way to introduce zero tolerance rates of alcohol, gentlemen are not acceptable. It is not acceptable for all of those reasons that the retirement club colleagues listed, and all those who discussed it had in mind a lot of reasons why it is not good to do so. Let us not allow this law that has good elements in it in 99%, and it is certain that I have already given results with the very announcement of stricter regimes on our roads, and surely it is unquestionably and during this period of adoption that there are fewer victims on our roads. Let us not lose this argument because of some will or someone looking at this thing that is not at this moment in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. For that reason, but first of all, because we don't lose the tourist credibility that can cost us at these difficult times all over Europe, let's not let that happen. For us, tolerance is acceptable and of 0.3. Therefore, I propose to the ruling coalition to reconsider whether it is possible to install this tolerance from 0.3 to 0.5 in this law? I believe that we would then reach a general consensus on the adoption of this law, and that our message would be sent to the citizens, but also to everyone who comes to our country is unique and to show that we are a serious Parliament and a serious state. Let's not put ourselves in a position where individual clubs don't vote for this law. But let's not even put ourselves in that position that after the tourist season we have to put changes and additions to the Road Safety Act that I'm sure respected colleagues will now be in favour of. So let's not get into such a situation, I'm asking you to reconsider one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18135	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18136	...and try to comply with everything I've been talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18137	A fellow Markov is out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18138	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18139	Who's for this amendment that Ante Markov's 41st? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 42nd Amendment of Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18140	It's unacceptable. The protection measures for the appropriate duration are prescribed by the frameworks of the Act and the safeguard measure for the withdrawal of the vehicle cannot be prescribed, as this would be contrary to the Law on Infringements.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18141	Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18142	Honored Ministers. We are today passing a law aimed at increasing road safety. And I'm sure these tightened measures will act preventively in the largest number of people. However, there is always one of the largest numbers of people because they are normal. However, there is one number, but completely unconscious drivers. And you know that such a few dozen is only one of all those involved in traffic. Which often, persistently recredivists are in the worst of offenses. They pose an extraordinary danger. To them, no punishment means anything to them. No cash, no prison for up to 60 days, no withdrawal of driver's license. Because you get their driver's license they keep driving without a driver's license. Therefore, as we have in customs law, the possibility of confiscation of funds, which has been committed a customs offence. And here it can be said, and only the judge can, not necessarily, but he can say the protective measure of confiscation of a vehicle that he insists on committing violations. So when we take that vehicle away from him, then we'll just shut him out of traffic like that. Therefore, it is not true that this is contrary to the Laws of Infringements, such a safeguard can also be pronounced in the Infringement Act. This is not going to suppress any human rights or freedom. This punishment would only be reserved for the worst and irreparable. And there is, because they're murderers on the roads, they're people with imagination, they're people to whom no punishment means anything. And such a measure knows the Netherlands, they know the lands of Anglo-Saxon law. Let's bring her in... The worst to strengthen the protection of all other road users. [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18143	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. 43rd Amendment of Honored Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18144	It's unacceptable. The applicant considers that this article has been sufficiently precisely arranged in the same way as the amendment to Article 10 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18145	Dear Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18146	Dear Mr. Minister, we obviously have very different criteria here on the quality of the nomotechnical design of certain regulations, and I point out that it is not just a matter of nomotechnics but the question is contained what I was talking about before and the question of procedural and material law, so here is some conscience when I come to the students tomorrow I would like to ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18147	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 44. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18148	It's unacceptable. A stricter penalty for a traffic accident is prescribed in Article 294 and, in other cases, stricter punishment is achieved within the range of prescribed fines.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18149	Comrade Lesar, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18150	Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18151	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 45. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18152	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18153	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 46th of the same club of HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18154	It's unacceptable. The Transport Safety Council as a body is not provided for by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18155	Comrade Rosic, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18156	Thank you very much. This amendment was exactly what we wanted to do. So, the existing National Council for Transport Security, which was established as a government advisory body and which we certainly didn't establish, we just wanted to include in this law this amendment. Therefore, do not let the professional organisation that emerged from the Citizens' Association "Ready Hak" in which certain obedient people from the profession were chosen according to the recommendations and who, of course, are loyal to this association, have a monopoly over this rather than we wanted to have the prominent traffic experts gathered into the government's advisory body and its name is the National Council for Transport Security to enter into this law. That was the intensity of the amendment. And the reason that it's not in the law is really true. It's not in the law, but we wanted to get into the law. Or we ask you, as Minister, to disband the National Transport Safety Council because it serves nothing as a government advisory body.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18157	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 47th of the same club of HSP representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18158	It's unacceptable. We believe that the conditions prescribed for car schools would be sufficient. For example, a car school on a smaller island, three vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18159	Dear Representative Miroslav Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18160	Well, the answer is car school three vehicles need to train drivers. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18161	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 48. Government becomes an integral part of the law. 49th Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18162	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18163	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Fifty. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18164	It's unacceptable. The intensities of this law are that professional organisations exercise entrusted public authority and competent ministries exercise administrative and inspection supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18165	Dear Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18166	So, this amendment went to separate the implementation and supervision of this law in its particular part and it is completely incompatible not only in this law but in any law but also against sound logic and mind that enforcement and supervision are in one legal person of anything, the exercise and supervision of anything and one and the same legal person is simply something that is incompatible with any legal logic or if you want even a healthy logic. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18167	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 51st and Club of HSP Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18168	It's unacceptable. Same reasons as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18169	Dear Representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18170	The reasons for not accepting are the same, but my argument is not the same, so allow me a second. So the management of this center is actually creating a new monopoly, so the solutions to these unspeakable views of this law are actually the subject of one concept, one single mind, one concept, not any agreement. Therefore, test centres should act on the princes or criteria based on argument and profession rather than on the principles of monopoly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18171	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 52. Government becomes an integral part of the law. 53. HSP's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18172	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18173	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law as well as 54. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. 55. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18174	It's unacceptable. The promoter is thought to have not yet matured the conditions for this kind of temporary training.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18175	Dear Representative Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18176	If a parent's escort who owns a driver's license for at least five years and has not committed a traffic violation in that time, it is not the educational way of preparing young drivers for self-driving, I have not found a better one. Mr. Minister, there is now an absurd. Citizens of Croatia at 17 years of age according to this proposal can therefore not get a license to drive a car, but at the same time they can operate sailboats in the air, sports aircraft and boats. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18177	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 56th Honored Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18178	It's unacceptable. The infringement procedure shall not impose a safeguard measure on the withdrawal of the vehicle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18179	Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18180	Your Honors Minister, I could repeat the whole argument now. Instead, I'll read you today's news. In a car accident that took place last night around 22.15 on the old Castelan road, a 39-year-old pedestrian was killed and her two underage children were seriously injured by a 3-year-old daughter and a 15-year-old son. As they walked by foot, Alpha Romeo ran into them without registration marks. The driver of Alpha Romeo lost control of the vehicle that went off the road and hit a woman and two children. This Alpha Romeo was driving so fast that when he hit the concrete wall that it fell apart into two parts, it was speed. The suffering woman's mother is six children. Mr. Minister, there's a lunatic I assure you on the roads. If this 20-year-old had been stopped by the police before that accident, they would have given him some kind of fine and he doesn't have his own money, he's 20 years old, that punishment would have been paid by Dad or Mom. That's not punishment for him. Let's take away their vehicle, take away their means of murder, and that's the only measure in which no other punishment can save lives. Minister, save lives, accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18181	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough. 57. HNS's PGS representative's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18182	It's unacceptable. Safety driving schools become a regular form of additional training for drivers and drivers in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18183	I'm a colleague of Lesar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18184	Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18185	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 58th Honored Representative Silvan Hrelje.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18186	It's unacceptable. The proposal is of the opinion that new drivers should be subject to specific restrictions for their safety and safety of other transport participants.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18187	I'm a colleague of the Hill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18188	Dear Mr. Minister, this is about a copy error, and I've asked for the deletement of paragraph 4. which says that in the period from 23, 23 to 05, a vehicle may be operated on the road at a time of 23 to 05 unless there is an elderly person in the vehicle of 25 years who has not been prescribed a protective measure or a safety-free driving measure. We can influence the risks, however, whether we want it or not with the best will we will not avoid risks and the presence of a 25-year-old person in a vehicle with an 18-year-old driver is imposing a limit on an adult institution and there is no guarantee that he will behave differently. So, I think that after all the burdens we've given both 0.0 alcohol and permission for two years and all that we've numbered in a row, this really isn't necessary, and ultimately we've limited literally the adult institute. Thank you. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18189	My colleague Hrelja, on this amendment, writes on Article 221 of yours, I suggest that you delete the article, then it is. You didn't make a mistake this time because you didn't write. Nothing, not applicable to that amendment, the withdrawn amendment does not apply to it, it may be taken into account in the second amendment. 59. Government becomes an integral part of the law. 60 IDS clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18190	That's the same one as this 59. Namely, 75, 80 turns into all three next amendments. So it's 60th and 61st.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18191	And what about them, it's accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18192	It's accepted because it's an amendment to the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18193	So he was accepted through, and the amendment of the Government, and with this also the Club of Representatives of the IDS and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Pension Party and the Club of Representatives of the HSP. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18194	No, I don't. HSU. 61st Last.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18195	HSU, we're going to 62 now. HSP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18196	It's unacceptable. The intensity of this Law is that, in addition to the public powers currently exercised by the professional organisations, there are other public powers to relieve the state administration. Comrade Miroslav Rožić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18197	Yeah, if it's law enforcement I can understand that the law's intensity is to relieve the state administration. But I also ask you to respect the fact that the professional organisation in this law has issued so far beliefs about driving tests and that these beliefs have appeared very quickly and largely in the hands of people who have not passed the driving test. It was found in your ministry, it's not like I'm speaking out of my mind. Therefore, in one word, people who did not pass the driver’s test received assurances from that professional institution about the submitted vassal exams. I told you, the intensity of our amendment was that the same thing didn't happen with driver's licenses as it happened with the convictions of a passed driver's test that regardless of the dispensation of the state administration the intensity of this law was primarily the safety of traffic on the roads that people with fake driver's licenses didn't kill on the road. That's why we wanted the driver's licenses to be issued by a state body, not by a professional body, which is nothing but an association of citizens. That's how it's registered. So I'm asking you not to let the hunters issue their hunting licenses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18198	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. 63 amendments to the Club of Representatives of the HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18199	It's unacceptable. The reference of the driver to an extraordinary medical examination is set out in Article 231 of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18200	Comrade Rosic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18201	This amendment was indeed followed by the previous one in which the President of the Parliament misunderstood when I said, talking about the psychological test. So this is one of these articles to which the very fact of an extraordinary medical examination and a psychological examination should be extended. And it is certainly about drivers who caused a car accident with major material damage that identified the presence of alcohol or intoxicating drugs. We want such drivers to go to a special extraordinary, medical examination and psychological examination. Please have a nice vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18202	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 64th Honored Representative Antun Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18203	It's unacceptable. Old vehicles or old timers can also be temporarily registered and can be issued test plates. This is regulated by the registration rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18204	He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18205	I don't know, today I had, today I had quite a different interpretation than one of the members, I don't know what it's called, the board of these old timers, they claim quite the opposite by asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18206	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 65th also from MP Kapraljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18207	It's unacceptable. Same as the last amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18208	He's a colleague of Kapraljevic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18209	And the same thing if you didn't accept it, but it would be convenient for them to have special license plates that would make sense that old timers have an appropriate vehicle that, if they don't go, is not going. But I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18210	The vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 66. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18211	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18212	It becomes an integral part of the law. 67th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18213	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18214	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. The 68th Amendment has been withdrawn. 69th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18215	It's unacceptable. The existing item 11 is sufficiently accurate nomotechnically and legally arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18216	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18217	Well, here, I'd like to explain. Says the 11th person, etc. that commits the offence referred to in paragraph 4. In paragraph 4, there is no breach. There just isn't. The following paragraph 4 reads: "The persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be required to comply with the requirements of a police officer.". Where's the offense? I mean, this is one of these really pearls and there are more no-technical questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18218	Minister Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18219	I think so. It's unacceptable. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. ... The offence committed will be whether multiple times rightfully... [[The speaker doesn't speak in the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] for the offence referred to in Article 4 of this Article, instead of fines, the Criminal Court may impose a sentence of imprisonment and may impose a protective measure on it to prohibit the management of a motor vehicle. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] 282, paragraph 11. Why would he delete himself?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18220	... There's no offense. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18221	Minister, look.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18222	Just, just... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18223	For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: Proposal for a Law, Article 282. In Article 282 of Article 4, please listen to me. [[/Intruder: What?]] The persons referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall comply with the requirements of a police officer. [[Intruder: Silence, silence]] Paragraph 11. reads: Person who is in a period, and so on,... In the event of an infringement two or more times as soon as the offence has been committed, the infringement referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be punishable. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] So if she is punished by law for the offence referred to in Article 4, which means if she is punished because she does not comply with the requirements of a police officer And that's my colleague Josipovic [[/Intruder: That's right.]] [[That's right, that's right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18224	No, it's not. Okay, okay. [[That's it, that's it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18225	If she is punished for the offence referred to in paragraph 4 because she has not acted on the requirements of a police officer, then in a repeated case, In accordance with Article 11, to be punished, and that is it. [[/Intruder: How not?]] [[/Intruder: That's it, that's it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18226	In paragraph 4, there is no description of the infringement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18227	Yes, there is. Misapplication on request Police officer. There's even a punishment for that. [[/Intruder: How not?]] Who's for this amendment please? Who's in favour of this amendment? [[Intruder: If he does not act at the request of a police officer?]] No, don't make fun of your colleagues. [[/Intruder: What? Yeah. Yeah.]] [[The intruders don't understand.]] Don't make fun of me, please, but let's be correct, but let's be correct. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I was a colleague of Kramarić's last term as I was, but I wasn't who you were in every term. ... Amendment 71 has been withdrawn. [[Applause.]] Amendment 72. Government becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 73 has been withdrawn. Amendment of 74th Honored Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18228	She's not taking it. The government thinks a 30-day deadline will have a better effect on the measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18229	Dear Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18230	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. As I said on behalf of the Club, I absolutely support the strengthening of penalties, strengthening repression, but the price of it does not have to be the procedural and legal uncertainty of citizens and therefore I ask that this be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18231	Who's up for that amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. 75. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18232	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18233	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 76th Representative Ivo Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18234	She's not taking it. Stronger punishment in this Law is prescribed in Article 294 of this Law. In addition, it is achieved through a range of prescribed penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18235	Representative Ivo Josipovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18236	The explanation is actually the same. This is one unselective repression. I'd like to ask you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18237	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 77th Honored Representative of the same Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18238	She's not taking it. In accordance with the Law, a sublegal act by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice is prescribed to keep records in criminal sanctions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18239	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18240	The law, the Law of Infringements calls that record criminal records, but this falls under these little things you insisted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18241	Voting? Retracted? 77th Retired. 78. Governments become an integral part of the Law as well as 79. 80. The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18242	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18243	It becomes an integral part of the law. 81st respected representative of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18244	If we can say it's partially accepted. Recital: it is clear that the proposal to enter into force on 1 November 2004 aims to give the amendment a deadline for preparing the implementation of the Law. In view of the fact that the negative trends in traffic accidents were the main reasons for the urgency of the adoption of the Law of the MUP was already in preparation for its implementation and we believe that the definition would be made in a way, this Law will be published in the National Journal and enter into force on 20 August 2004, achieved what the Proposer wants by proposing its amendment, or that more than 30 days from the date of adoption of the Law is sufficient time for quality preparation for its implementation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18245	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18246	The Honorable President is truly well-intentioned. I think we skipped a number of amendments. I think it was a mistake so we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18247	Which I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18248	73rd Representative Boras, 74th.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18249	Pulled, pulled.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18250	But we didn't hear that. Excuse me. [[- Yeah, she said.]] [[She said, said, said. But you were talking.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18251	So, Ministers, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18252	I said the explanation is partly accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18253	August 20th, entry into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18254	On August 20th, the law would come into force.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18255	A colleague, Josipovic?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18256	Well, of course I'm not particularly happy with that. I think it's for the addressees, maybe it's not for the police, but for the citizens, it's too short a deadline. At least you're on full moon. But come on, I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18257	Okay. The adopted amendment by Josipovic's representative in this amended form means that the law, these amendments, enters into force on 20 August 2004. We're done with the amendments. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? My colleague Kramarić, you are very happy. Can we know the reason for this joy? Until the law came into force. I find that, with 77 votes for, 34 against and 5 abstentions, the Road Safety Act in the text has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Legislatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: the professional service of the Croatian Parliament is authorised to carry out a revision of the text of the Road Safety Act before its publication in the National Journal. Who's in favor of this proposal for a conclusion? Mato? Thank you. Against. Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted by 110 for, 3 on the contrary and 3 abstentions. We have another proposal for the conclusion of the HSS repatriation club. Which is what it says. It undertakes the Government of the Republic of Croatia to use funds collected on the basis of road traffic violations to improve road safety conditions. The Ministry of Finance is obliged to report annually to the Croatian Croatian Assembly on the amount of funds collected. And the competent departments of traffic security are bound to report annually to the Croatian Assembly on the spending of the funds referred to in point 2 of these conclusions. Minister. Your testimony to this proposal is final.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18258	I think it's already regulated by law and we can't, it's regulated by a certain point. The point of the law I'm going to tell you, this is exactly why he couldn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18259	Who's in favour of this proposal for a conclusion? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. 137. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, when establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act, you accepted the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, Education, Science and Culture of the Reports you received at the session. I'd like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports of Mr. Slobodan Taker to further explain the proposal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18545	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, I remind, was passed on July 31st and entered into force on August 15th last year. It has been shown that the Law contains certain shortcomings and discrepancies in a professional and nomotechnical aspect that prevents it from being applied. The fundamental lack of law consists in its practical non-implementability under further circumstances limited to the real state of science and high educational activity and in the law of those deadlines within which the law should be applied. The obvious non-implementability of the law is evident among other things in the fact that some of the deadlines laid down by law were exceeded before the new Government of the Republic of Croatia was able to apply this Law. The fact that the Law was inconclusive also faced the previous Government, which adopted the Regulation amending the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education at its last session on 18 December 2003. I recall the Regulation applying the basic provisions on the financing of science and higher education was moved from 1 January to 1 July of this year. The difficulties in the implementation of certain concrete legal solutions, with the lack of compliance of the law with other laws, are insufficient clarity and the need for precision, and nomotechnical irregularities and the need for corrections were manifested in around 40 provisions of this law. They're listed in the introductory text and I think it's easy to identify them. In addition to these individual provisions of the law, the truth does not necessarily require changes and additions, but should certainly be taken into account in some reasonable correction of the law. This group certainly includes poor systematization of certain issues in the law and, in particular, poor language solutions in it. This proposal sought to remove key obstacles to the achievement of the law's task set, and to enable the functioning of the science and higher education systems, to the minimum extent necessary for the adoption of the law. This law, mainly in terms of necessary precision, and the following principle of law enforcement, needs to be regulated, in particular, 15 key issues that I will only briefly comment on. National Council for Science and Higher Education, Agency for Science and Higher Education. The question of evaluation of scientific institutes, higher schools and study programmes. The process of elections in scientific titles, co-operational titles and jobs. A permit to carry out high school activities, education for the needs of the military and the police. The university management system. The names of the bodies of the Faculty of Arts Academys. Professional names and academic degrees. The election process in high schools. A question of the position of assistants, rights issues and obligations of teachers. Budget and finance. Penalty of provisions and safeguards as in the new law. and the question may eventually, but not least, perhaps most importantly, the question of deadlines in transitional and final provisions. So that they enable the unequivocal achievement of the iron and designated reform objectives, with the greatest guarantee of the quality of science and higher education. The adoption of this law will mean creating a series of favourable normative and mainly time frames for the realistic implementation of the transformation of the Croatian System of Scientific and High Educational Activities in terms of the proposed and desirable pro-European integration processes. The transformation processes of these activities will take place in parallel with their relatively regular time and with the minimum unwanted consequences that are normally followed by such root changes indicated by the law and laid down by the law passed a year ago. To note that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of specific additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Why the emergency procedure proposal? Generally, Croatia is late to include these activities in European integration processes. It is therefore necessary to intervene urgently in the legal provisions by regulating a number of deadlines that have already been exceeded. Here, so much for the introduction, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18546	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18547	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We heard the explanation of why the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education should be changed. Because the way he is today is inconclusive. It is impossible to deal with, the changes proposed here are essential that the law that harmonizes Croatia's scientific activities and higher education with the Bologna Process and European trends, so that we can act according to these trends. But that thesis only partially stands. In it, they are like decorative paper, actually wrapped and bad organization of the ministry that its obligations under the existing law, so the one that is now in force has not been implemented, and it could, for example, form the national councils of one and the other. A senseless reorganisation of the government and the formation of a Mammuth Ministry in which today there are significantly more officials than before the reorganisation, but also a lack of will to implement things and a lack of awareness of the importance of science and higher education. The declarative nature of this government's oath in the importance and importance it gives this area, we saw nicely in the budget rebalancing yesterday. The numbers, unfortunately, don't lie. We also saw in the proposal to appoint some members of these two national councils, a proposal the government withdrew in the meantime. In addition to what is completely unclear to me, why is the texts of these amendments and additions being brought in a mysterious way? Namely, universities, universities, and colleges of high school did not have a chance to see him or see him before we got him on the assembly benches, let alone talk about him and possibly make any remarks. Believe me, there are some smart people in these institutions who might be able to help a little more. Well, that's the style of work. And in style, I guess we shouldn't be talking in this place. The importance of the inclusion of Croatian science and higher education in the European system seems unnecessary to me to discuss it further, it was in the past session of the Assembly such a broad debate and an explanation that I believe both the professional and the general public have realized what this is about, that in fact, we are rightly adapting our children to what will be waiting for them tomorrow and in 10 years' time in the European Union. Something about the changes that are proposed. The provisions defining both national councils are amended in Chapter 2. Changes when we analyze them in detail are by no means such that they would only now enable the constitution and work of these bodies. If the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education has been disabled so far because of the lack of legal text, the situation will remain. If they're not, why aren't they formed so far? I personally believe there were no obstacles to forming. In the same chapter, the amendments and additions to the laws have not even tried to touch provisions concerning the regional councils and parent committees, which are bodies directly affecting the definition of scientific areas and fields and which conduct the selection procedures of scientists and high school scientists. Moreover, in another place in the transitional provisions of Article 118, the promoter once again confirms the fact that he is simply late for work, and that he intends to continue at that pace. So he suggests that the choice of teachers be conducted by the end of the year under the previous regulation, the Law on Higher Schools. That's not the last one, it's in front of the previous regulation, I guess. So, a law that definitely does not exist in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. If you don't believe it, look on the People's Newspaper page, it's not there. Article 35 of the Proposer repeals the Institute of the so-called Institute. administrative silence by which it has been possible so far to choose a teacher in scientific teaching simply so that the competent authority does not give its opinion on this in time. This is a good solution that we support and that in the direction of improving quality and preserving the reputation of higher education institutions. So it will be impossible in the future to adopt these amendments and supplement the law that a person comes into scientific teaching or teaching and that the parent body that should have said something about the quality of his work simply shuts the whole thing down. For the first time in a law concerning science and higher education, higher school institutions are being set up for military and police purposes. Oversight, administrative supervision of such universities is carried out by the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence. It should be made clear that these universities cannot in any way be members of the university because such supervision would directly violate the constitutional provision on university autonomy. That's the direction I gave the amendment. It is proposed to abolish university councils as bodies that manage the university in a business sense. We consider this justified because it simplifies university management especially to smaller ones, but the fact that the commercial authority of the university council according to this proposal has been transferred to the Senate of universities where it is still being carried out today does not mean that it does not get that function. In fact, the proposal does not say anywhere that there are dean colleges in the Senate, which is the case today, so it can be very easy to happen that the business decisions of the university are completely separate from the implementation of those decisions. I don't quite understand how the proposer thinks it can work, if I say there's no university council. We suggest that deans of the university, regardless of the legal status of these universities, be members of the Senate of the university if the Senate of the university creates and implements the business policy of the university, so some kind of collective management body is. On the other hand, according to this proposal, the university's Rector can replace the dean with a practical apparition. So the dean comes down to the level of approximately the manager. The need to integrate the university is clear. It is finally one of Europe's demands. However, such provisions, therefore, do not contribute to the functional integration of the university by autonomous decision of the Rector. It can lead to disintegration of the functioning of the university. And that's what I suggested the amendment that came to the benches. Even the financing of activities has not been significantly changed. Article 109, inter alia, relates to its last sentence, which in this context is completely pointless because, by definition, the integrated university of the component does not have legal personality, so they do not have their own original income, at least from those sources that would allow capital investment. It is crucial in law, and we expect the government to propose in the budget for next year to form a new way of financing the university. If the university is not financed by a so-called I'm a lam system, so to get full money for its operation to then internally budget the distribution has nothing to do with the integration of the university. While colleges themselves get money so far, colleges are independent no matter what they write in acts. So, while the money comes to college bills. The big change in the law is that someone finally came up with a thought and managed to translate, sing the expression, hope to read it well, always break the language with him, "bacaureus". From now on, the term not to repeat it once again and the first degree of studies in our colleges, high school, high schools will end first graders and first graders. I don't know exactly what that means, but I haven't been able to find these expressions in any dictionary in this context. If that's why we've been waiting for the law to change for as long as it's because the great students on the exams don't have a great one but a great one, then I guess somebody's joking with us. It is a serious question of what the legislator is and whether the legislator decided in the current text on the binary system of education, so the separation of university professional studies. Obviously it is. In Europe, there are two systems that educate at a high school level to the same calling but with different content of studies and different knowledge, in the first case theoretically and in the second applicative to say so briefly. This is exactly the kind of clear separation of the type of study, but also by allowing students to qualify for the same value at one study and another, Europe has managed to achieve a significantly higher percentage of highly educated citizens in the overall population than in our case. University studies are long, demanding, looking for certain abilities that are not inevitable for educated professionals who are practically focused. Just for them there are universities... as these educational institutions are already called in various countries of the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The promoter of these changes and additions does not allow students of professional study to come to the same although with different content of qualifications at the level of graduate studies, so at the level of today's high level. We find this unwarranted, and we suggest that these two types of studies get closer and closer by calling, equally, and that's what I've given the amendment about. It is also envisaged that complete binaryity, hence the separation of universities from professional studies, is only in 2010, we think it is too long, that these negotiations between universities and higher schools should start early and the whole process ends earlier and there is an amendment. In fact, there has now been an absurd situation, that for the various reasons that we all know from the press is the abolished university in Split, the university is no longer present, it is attached to the University of Split and the University of Split now enrolls 5 thousand students of professional studies throughout Croatia in those places where the university in Split used to enroll. 40 percent of all professional studies in Croatia today take place at the university, which is irrational and overpriced. The only real news in the law is criminal provisions. They were missing in the current law, and they sanction exactly those cases that have led to the greatest difficulty in business so far. Obviously, it was written by a system knower, someone who understands and knows what's going on in the system. We will support these amendments and additions to the law. Some of them are needed, good ones, some of them seem to me to be an alibi for unhappiness but the direction is especially if some of these amendments are respected well. We support that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18548	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kresimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18549	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The Act on Scientific Activity, adopted on 31 July 2003, entered into force on 15 August 2003, contained, as stated here in the introduction on the assessment of the state of certain deficiencies, inconsistencies that prevent its full application, and therefore here today we are discussing amendments and additions to this Act. These amendments are reflected as in the proposal for amendments and the addition of the law specific to the work of the National Science Council specifically when we talk about the National Council for Science, the amendments relate to Article 6 relating to the role of the National Council for Science as the highest expert body to care for the development and quality of the overall activities of the science system in the Republic of Croatia. The amendments relate to paragraph 2 where it states that the National Science Council gives its preliminary opinion on the Regulation on the evaluation of scientific organisations by the Minister responsible for the affairs of science and higher education. Nothing special new. Furthermore, the amendments in paragraph 2.8 propose a National Council for Science, the promotion of scientific centres, the excellence and implementation of their evaluation. A very important task as if there are very many scientific centres and excellence in Croatia and as if the evaluation is an uncontestable important task but it seems to me that very often this evaluation becomes self-inflicted. Furthermore, the National Science Council gives an opinion on the establishment of scientific technology parks important, but I would say it is even more important to ask myself what the scientific technology parks in the Republic of Croatia have done so far. How to assess so much today in 2004 the work of such an important body as the National Council for Science, I would say not impressive. And it's no wonder, especially when it comes to the recent nomination of people who were to lead the National Science Council. It is really inadmissible to get a proposal from people without full résumés, without their references and without everything that should allow us here to have an objective judgment on whether these people are really people who can direct Croatian science and lead the National Science Council. And it seems to me that these résumés are not left out because the reactions clearly show that there were strong opposition to the choice of people who were proposed for both councils. Furthermore, the National Council for Higher Education amends Article 7 where it reads: "The National Council for Higher Education is the highest expert body to care for the development and quality of the entire higher education system of the Republic of Croatia. Now that sounds like I'd say impressive for whoever didn't have a chance to see how that council worked so far and what its real results were. The amendments referred to in point 4 of paragraph 2 shall be read as follows: The National Higher Education Council shall give a preliminary opinion to the Minister on the regulations on the establishment and evaluation of higher education and student programmes. An important, certainly undeniable operational task. Article 8 relating to the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education is important because it says that these two bodies jointly propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia criteria and relationship and distribution, and the relationship and distribution of budgetary resources for scientific activity and higher education. So what have we had so far if we're just waiting for the criteria? Furthermore, the article, Article 1(2), discusses both national councils on matters related to the politicntric system, the scientific activities of higher education in the Republic of Croatia and proposes to underline measures for its development. Next, here, I will only comment briefly on Article 11 relating to members and which says: that members of the National Council for Science and the National Council for Higher Education of their Presidents appoints the Croatian Parliament at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to take care of the representation of representatives of the field of science and art and of the region and the representation of scientists from the economy. And in all the proposals for now and also in that report that we have received from the National Foundation for Science, it is simply evident that this representation of science, which is an integral part of every developed economy, is not representative, is not enough because there is, unfortunately, little science in the Croatian economy and because scientists are largely concentrated and connected to the university today, do not dare accept the real and real challenges that impose today's competitive economy. Here's a couple of community notes. Certainly these changes and additions are important from that formal organisational aspect but certainly not enough for something new to happen in Croatia science and what is more important in order for this science to take over what function it must have and which it has in every developed society, which is the support of an economy that must be competitive, support for a quality product. Today, unfortunately, science is only and exclusively related to the high school system and education, and that is, and that is not good. Certainly there is no quality teaching, no quality universities, no quality colleges, no quality scientific work, but science cannot remain active only in this segment. That segment that is far more challenging, far more difficult for real and brave scientists is related to applied science, with science that enables a particular economy of such a small transition state as Croatia and mainly by many parameters in technical and technological and scientific terms not sufficiently developed. It is therefore dangerous that scientific institutions only justify their activities by solely participating in higher education activities. I would say a competitive product in the high-tech sector means a high quality of scientific research, education, the entire chain of education at the end of that hierarchy system must have a concrete product. And unfortunately that part of the structure of science and its not only but I would say an extremely important point, important roles and tasks in the Republic of Croatia is not sufficiently expressed. There are no high-tech products that are the result of Croatian companies, and this is impossible to achieve in Croatian companies if they do not have high-quality scientific research infrastructure and all unfortunately the only item that can be praised by the characteristics of a highly competitive technological product, the sum of honey is almost on the way out of its practical economic impact. What are we missing? We lack strong industrial institutes. Once ten or fifteen years ago, Končar had a strong institute and this powerful institute allowed Končar to compete in many major projects, large international tenders and competitions in many countries. That's how it happened with RIZ, sometimes it was with the Brodar Institute, and today these institutes are almost gone. With a hundred, somewhere with a dozen and only a few people. How the separations in science in the Republic of Croatia look today, we know. Everyone agrees and everyone complains that they are not enough and I could agree with that, but I would also say about what is invested in science has a purpose and justification to wonder if the result that returns is not only in terms of published scientific papers, their action factors and so on. Whether this benefit exists at society level as a whole and whether this science particularly through the National High Science Council recognises the priorities and priority programmes and projects that stand, which we are talking about these days, so gentlemen and many of the topics that we have discussed these days and as the programme is related to the treatment of PTSD patients, related to traffic safety. When you look at the number of references and published works, patents and everything else then you will see that science has something to do in this area, but unfortunately when you look at Croatian references, you will realize that science and these current problems are not acceptable to the necessary and sufficient extent. Here's an illustration. Last year, Faiser singled out for research and development, no less than seven billion dollars, seven billion dollars. As impressive as these amounts are, you can judge for yourself in terms of the height of the Croatian GDP and so on. Yes, science needs extra resources, but science needs to show vitality. You need to show mobility, you need to show responsibility. Modernisation of Croatian science is something that will not solve the laws, which will not solve the programmes, but the problem that exists before Croatian science should be properly formulated and discussed. The structure of the university is certainly all important things, organisational integration. So here I can say that these processes are unfortunately opposed by strong, strong resistances at individual universities. I am probably one of the people here in this hall who led one of the first interdisciplinary postgraduate studies of the University of Zagreb where they co-oped the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, Engineering, Mathematics and Physics. It has been shown how difficult this is for many reasons. Because of the resistance of the faculty, because of the inability of the university administration to direct and conduct such a postgraduate study, especially difficult if you want to have a targeted, functional postgraduate study that should be monitored and supported by certain, concrete projects and programmes. I can say that I was particularly pleased when I had examples that almost a dozen or 15 young people, the best scientific recruits of the University of Zagreb worked on a project of their master's work and during the 4.5 years of conducting this postgraduate study were made valuable projects, over a hundred works were published in international journals, and in the end that postgraduate study was abolished. I'm not going to talk about it right now about why and why. Our curricula and programmes, especially at technical schools, are rapidly lagging behind, not changing enough and I can tell you that compared to similar colleges, the number of curricula and programs we have are inaccessibly large because this forget factor that is related to teachers is unacceptable, inadmissible. So objects that are once suited to the '60s and '70s are handed over, and what's in front of us isn't being handed over. Here's since the light's on, I'll say it for a while. Certainly, the HDZ Club will give support to these amendments and amendments to the law, noting that the discussion on research and development in the development and competitiveness of the Croatian economy deserves special attention because the accelerated economic growth, higher levels of economic development, 5.6% of which is very important will not be possible without restructuring and more active role of Croatian science, research and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18550	I would like to thank Mr Kresimir Cosic, and on behalf of Klub SDP, Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18551	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The SDP club will support this Law for several important reasons. First of all, it's about the law, in general about matter, which is violently conflicted for several reasons. First because of our science and higher education, some disparate objectives have been put in place because on the one hand it wants to increase the number of highly educated people, it does not want to invest more money in the system, and it wants to increase the impact of the system. It is therefore very difficult to expect that our system will increase the number of students, increase quality, and no longer invest in the system. On the other hand, the Bologna process that has begun naturally brings some news that some fear. Right or wrong. I'm thinking wrong. But in a situation where the Bologna provisions have been tempered, I must say some myths that do not go with the Bologna Declaration and when they wanted to get past the Bologna Declaration and some other goals, of course, that there were certain resistances and misunderstandings. In addition to solving important matter, I would also say that the legislator showed one virtue that I personally highly appreciate, which is that contrary to what we have heard, it is probably one false information, in the preparation of this Law a very broad circle of people was consulted, regardless of party membership from very different sides, from different colleges and professions, and there were several meetings where a very fiery discussion was held, and there were also conflicting points, and I think that the result is a reasonable compromise. The third virtue of this project is that it follows that concept which has adopted the basic text of the law that is on the reformer's path, but which does not collapse. That's why I think maybe in this explanation an excessive critical assessment which gave the basic text of the law because I think that the former Ministry of Minister Fleg has prepared a very good law, and that I would even say nomotechnical and linguistic mistakes have partly come from a large number of amendments that have been adopted in this high house in the legal procedure itself. So of the main qualities this project brings, I would like to highlight the clarification of the role of national councils and the attitude towards the ministry. In the basic text, just because of some amendments, this relationship was a bit of a mess, and there was no idea who was drinking, who was paying, and I think that the current composition of the relationship was one reasonable division of roles in the system of higher education and science. Furthermore, I think that a further step has been taken in affirming the independence of the university, and I would like to appeal that we are not afraid that the university will have her or these bodies, whether it will be organised one way or another. It is part of the university's autonomy, of course, within some general gauges and goals. So I'm a little worried about whether he has university advice, whether he has this board or the one we leave to the university, let him do it in accordance with the law of the institutions and these parameters that he gives the law. As far as the university's independence is concerned, the affirmation of funding through itself is one of the key things. Unfortunately, the system was obviously not ready for it yet, I hope it will soon become. And that through this kind of funding, therefore, this integrated function of the university will be strengthened through funding. What is further positive is the simplification of structures both in the state and at the university I think that over-indulgence and reorganization is one better that we have very often in our country and it's good for things to be simplified because then relationships are more transparent, control is better. And the team, of course, also speaking about those standards relating to the evaluation of quality and science and higher education, which should point out that some of the deadlines that were set before the evaluation were simply unrealistic because the system cannot carry out such a number of controls in a short time. And the worst part is that the law has been devastated since the beginning of its non-implementation. So better and less standardize less demand, but what is required is drastically and executed. It's to prescribe things that have nothing to do with life. And I think that the normative optimism that thinks that everything can be done by law is a lot of damage, just in the preparation of some of the previous azcones. Even in the life of the academic community itself. There's been a lot of talk about it, and I think that thing is relatively well solved, so the question is whether a binary system or a non-binary system. Of course, they were and have been conflicting interiors, if the state has chosen a binary system, which means identifying two different types of higher education, then there should be consistency. This means that the distinction must really be such that there is a purpose of prescribing two different systems. And on the other hand, to profile rights and obligations according to these objectives that they want from those two systems. The system of higher schools and higher education is aimed at rapid training of practical knowledge and rapid inclusion in the work process, while very roughly speaking university studies in the first place by providing training for highly professional, scientific work, and training az most professional, most professional jobs and orientation towards science. What interfered with the agreement or agreement and there are some amendments I have seen that go for it in terms of the dfiltration of the binary system are the first unrealistic expectations or the wish of the works of the subjects from this system of higher schools and universities to have the rights and status of universities but not the obligations that the university has on one hand. On the other hand, the tendency to unresponse these desires with reality. We know that some high schools and high schools work great. But we also have to say that some high schools are simply falsified. To the cleaners to the business space, to the chalk, to the sponge all gives a certain college. Therefore, there is a job before the ministry and the state that is much more important than the law itself, which is designing a system of high school institutions, because let's not forget the state is to say the owner of all universities in the Republic of Croatia, and some conflicts that occurred in the process of preparing and adopting this law arises from what the state was not prepared or not aware of or could not profile the network of higher school institutions. The best example is Split and that anarchy that was happening to the Split university, there are a number of birth anecdotes that we might have talked about at some other time of the day and elsewhere. Students who came to me and told me what things looked like. So designing a system I think must be a priority goal, taking care of the need for universities to be established and founded by public universities by law. And that the state is still waiting for that part of the job. Finally, something about the question of all the questions some say. It's a question of whether the legal personality of the university or not is a legal personality of the university. The issue has been raised to the level of execution of the Bologna Declaration, which is not true. The bologna declaration doesn't say anything about it. It is true that most in most Western states colleges and academias do not have legal personality. That's right. But a state of very respectable code which is a system or are such that they have some kind of legal personality or are simply a university what we hold to colleges, let's say our Medical Faculty is in Austria and we seem to know it's Professor. A fly better than me, medical university. In Czech Republic which is where and where faster to go west than we are, there is a legal university. So, it's hurting mechanical suffering into drawers. We need to look at the real situation, and I think that conflict will be resolved when it comes to the issue at the University of Zagreb. And here I think the founder of the founding rights holder has something to say. Of course, there are times when we slave for the historical heritage we have. And I think that this problem must be approached without prejudice, in a way that will be maximumly functional for that goal which every university and also at the University of Zagreb. This also assumes the willingness to separate the studies in individual universities that are not actually a university study in their content. There are also such studies and such studies should go to the university. The university must keep an eye out for the ongos, which is not a university study, but it assumes a certain political will, and a willingness to bite perhaps in some partial interests that so far no one has had the strength to do. In the end, I would say that there are certain, perhaps, nomotechnical or similar problems in the text of the law itself. There are also things that a man can write to himself, probably a different kind of writing to himself. but we know that the laws are not written for itself for any person but must be one reasonable compromise in which legitimate interests will be reasonably balanced I think this text has largely achieved. So these details like either a first-timer, or an accessor, are you...laureus if I can say it or can't not raise to a level of strategic and major problems. Once again, I'd like to repeat the SDP club will support the law. And some minor amendments and suggestions will be given in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18552	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic. On behalf of the club HSPa Mr. Representative Slaven Letica. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. And I apologize to Mr. Letica. So on behalf of the HSS, the HSS club Mr. Zdenko Harami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18553	Dear Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry. The law before us voted this House in July 2003. in particular, on 31 July and entered into force on 15 August 2003, with effect from 1 January 2005. The main intensity of the adoption of this law was the improvement and adaptation of higher education in the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and in order to adapt the entire system of higher education to European standards and enable the successful integration of Croatian diplomats into European systems. It should be noted that in Croatia, at this time, about 120 thousand students are studying at a higher school institution, while the goal is to increase the number by 2010 to approximately 200 thousand students. Croatia is at the very bottom of Europe, because according to the last census of the population of Croatian citizens with high school equipment, there is about 8% while the average of European Union countries is about 22%, which means that even in the most developed countries it is where and where it exceeds 30% and 35%. In the Republic of Croatia, out of the total number of students enrolled, only 30% to 40% completed the study on average for seven to eight years of study. The whole system of study is ineffective and expensive, so it needs to be changed. This law that we are now amending was the first step in achieving that goal. With all the good will of the then legislator of the law, so the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament that passed the law, it has proved that this law must again come to the Croatian Parliament for the remont that we are doing right now. We at the HSS Club believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education on this track of improvement and that they are indeed a quality step forward. In order to hope that this reformed law will really contribute to what I was talking about earlier on January 1, 2005. transforming the entire higher education system in the Republic of Croatia into a system that will be able to deal with the higher education of European Union countries that will be able to produce a much higher percentage of diplomats than the present and that will ultimately shorten the years of study and cost the whole system. For all things, the HSS Club will support the proposed amendments and additions to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18554	Thank you very much to Mr. Representative Haramia. Now on behalf of the HSP club Mr. Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18555	Mr. Vice President, it's very good to discuss briefly what proves to be a good law. In general, I think when we speak critically about some government's legal proposals that it is polite and commendable relatively or absolutely well-designed legislative proposal. In general, I think that Minister Dragan Primorac is doing very well his job and that he has passed from a children's phase of experimenting with reformist where he even considered extending his classes, changing the system of evaluation, breaking up a long teaching and research tradition in Croatia, and that we will have in the perspective of a very good minister, which is very important to us at the university and in science. That's certainly true for the Secretary of State, a colleague of the Intruder. Now a little something about more concrete proposals. For almost 30 years, I have been disturbed by pretentiousness in Croatian terminology when it comes to research development. All over the world, similar laws are called research and development laws "research and development". In Croatia, people like to look at research and development from some imaginary metaphysical sub-dependences thinking that the work of scientists is some supernaturally important job, and that is why we often meet with one paradox that the public, journalists and people in this House are, unfortunately, going to another extreme, underestimating and not even allowing people who have academic titles of professors and doctors to even be referred to in this House of higher education even though they have the right to do so, and in that sense should cultivate on the one hand modesty and ordinaryness and on the other hand respect for people who have acquired these scientific, teaching, research and any other titles. With this in mind several further remarks on different approaches to research, development in Croatia and the West. For example, at the U.S. Earth or State Institute of Health, it's called the National Institute of Health, which employs approximately 60% of Nobel Prize winners for Medicine, there is no institution of the scientific cabinet, there is no desk, there is no sofa or even couch, there is a bench institution, there is an ordinary chair. In a lab with a length of 6 meters, a width of 5 meters works for 15 researchers, two or one of whom won the Nobel Prize. The reasons for that are prosaic nature. Our Croats who went to the American Institute of Health wanted to prove in the early 1990s that Croatians were and in this more valuable than their colleagues in the United States and, for example, my colleague Matko Marusic, who was in charge of Croatian medical science and Croatian medical publicity, came to work in the early 1990s at 8:00 a.m. and then the poor worked, worked until 8:00 a.m. and thought that he worked most, and then the Chinese, Japanese, Vietnamese would still be in full working condition. They could've worked 18, 20 hours. Bench and the research chair support competitiveness in this laboratory, create aggression and solves more value and laziness researchers, and in this sense, would try to work a little bit on terminology in future legislative proposals. That future laws are called research and development laws, that in some way research development work is not treated in perspective as work of particular national interest. This would also mean reducing pretentiousness in relation to different so-called. National council, I've talked about it before. If state officials are referred to, it could be talked about state councils for science, i.e. for higher education or to return to the old Croatian practice of speaking about earthly councils. In any case, this notion of national seems terribly confusing. When it comes to juniors and high school girls, it's a pretty bad coin from the bachelor, maybe something better could be found for people to think, because the high schooler means something quite almost after kindergarten, that's how it works. Of course, a man can get used to airscratched and that some of my colleagues who went to Belgrade for the first time were well-intentioned when they invited Serbian colleagues to their home, then they attacked them for their mouths. That's why we need to learn about these concepts. When it comes to quite concrete people, I would disagree with my colleague, Cosic, otherwise very respectable scientist and researcher, the proposed membership of the National Council for Science at the head of my student, Professor Simon Angelinovic, was also born in Bogolja forensics, so there is only one small danger of too much Hvar being too powerful in Croatia. And secondly, that people who move in a small circle, means people of forensics, pathologists, etc. They extend their people, and we would not, purely symbolically, view it as good that only people who deal with dead people in science in Croatia, although it is an extremely interesting job. And finally, the HSP Club will support this law, joining here the remarks made by a colleague Josipovic on respecting tradition and not insisting on creating some artificial universities, as some fundamental legal persons who would then distribute funds, money, decisions, etc. In Croatia, the research, development, teaching, scientific tradition is practically a university that is a key institution in other US and Western European countries, as well as Central European countries and often functions as a synonym for universities. And the last observation concerning this Agency for Science and Higher Education, in general there are too many institutions with us, the agency is reserved for some market, as far as I know, competition protection institutions, property management. Maybe you should think about some idea closer to the institution or something. In any case, I find it pretentious to give the institution administrative and professional powers because it is certainly not good. All in all, I think this bill is very good, and today I've talked to my colleague Palaric, and that's what I end up with, and we need to know as parliamentary representatives that the work done by these people who propose laws is, in all likelihood, very difficult, that people are lowly motivated to work. I almost cried with my colleague Palaric, who explained to me that in the '95s there was enthusiasm, how people worked until 12 o'clock, until 2 o'clock p.m. That it's hard to talk these people into getting bad legal proposals today, which is not the case, with more understanding, but not less criticism, I'm going to look at it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18556	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. In accordance with his traditional modesty here, Mr Letica wrote only Slaven Letica. If the professor had written a doctor, I would have read it and called it that. And so I pray that if you are on it and so expected... Not me, but I generally say that they write when they read their titles here, so we might discover an academic or even a Nobel laureate amongst us. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So say, write, I'll read it when I'm here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of Club Libre, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18557	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We pass this law by haste, as we have passed the past Law, and in the light of this Law, there is actually a terrible finding that the existing Law is inconclusive. And there are 41 provisions of that law that are inconclusive. Well, surely if that is true, and at least one part of the promoter should believe, then it must be the consequence of the law being passed by haste. So the key laws that define actually one of the perhaps most important activities in the Republic of Croatia in the perspective of its accession to Europe, its development as well as scientific activity and high educational activity, such laws should not be passed by hasty procedure. Especially at the end of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the evening, when there is no more public to follow, then, of course, the attention and quality of our discussions would probably be greater. So I have to show concern that neither this law, only for procedural reasons, will be better than the previous laws. That it will be just as bad a law and that it is likely to have its rapid change as well, and of course a frequent change in the law, any law, and this is also not good for the stability of the process in which the law wants to regulate. I must say that this law as well as the previous laws is actually the law of compromise. No one who is rational and logical can be against compromise in politics. The question is, of course, when compromise becomes a compromise that actually prevents the achievement of a fundamental goal, and when compromise is in the function of truly optimal coordination of different interests. So I'm afraid of the situation and with this law and it seems to me to be a more important reason or, more important reason why this law, we can question its quality. The reform of education in Croatia is otherwise out of luck. The reform of education in the Republic of Croatia is one of the reforms that is constantly being talked about, but because of the delicateness of the process to be started, because of the interests that are opposed, and often the interests want to preserve the existing state, rather than the reform. Often, these reforms actually become an empty story, and there are no real reforms and real procedures in the system. I think this is the case with Croatian reforms of education, not only of higher education reform but also of reform of secondary and primary education. A lot of stories about reform, there's always talk about reforms, reform is the most common word heard from politicians and senior officials in the education system, and in fact everything seems to be gone because the reform doesn't suit many who are in high positions in the system itself. Because those positions would be questionable if the reform were to take place, and of course every reform is a very, very risky business. Taking on very serious responsibilities and then there is no political will to go into reform. It seems to me that, unfortunately, this is also the case with the reform of education because we have passed a law that will delay for many years the real reforming of our higher education and scientific system. And all this again for the expense of some of the partial interests that have been found, which have existed for decades. Which are not since yesterday, which we obviously as Parliament, or as government, or as a state are unable to cut and go some way. Well, then we keep talking about reform, and that's how it looks to me, and it's gonna happen and it's gonna happen after this law. It seems to me, for example, that the Ministry of Science and Education only introduces an item in the budget's rebalancing of education reform. So wasn't it certain at a time when we adopted the budget, at the beginning of this year that education reform is something that is a matter of days, which is a requirement of day. Should it have been half a year for the minister or ministry to include that item in the 3.5m kuna education reform budget. It's like a half-year in ours and so much lagging behind in science and higher education as if it were small. Croatia will have a share of science in the country's overall budget after the budget rebalancing, with total public costs being lower than it was yesterday, because the budget has increased by 2 billion kuna, and science and education remain in the same way, relative share of science and education in the general public costs of the Republic of Croatia tomorrow evening will be smaller than it is today, and we have a permanent declaration that we should increase the allocations in the state budget and then mean the total public costs of the year in order to reach Europe and then set ourselves up, of course mathematics is a damn thing, so that we should achieve this every year in the next 5 years, increase the budget for this activity by 17%, and this year we have increased the budget by 5.8% and thus barely actually follow inflation. And in such conditions, if there is no determination or if it is not desired or not possible for other interests and reasons to allocate enough money for education, there is no talk about reaching Europe and as we know Europe is late, in this sense Europe is late for Japan and the United States and we are equally fat and even fatter behind this same Europe and therefore such laws that are shy again again, again without the power to enter reforms will not really bring us a shift in this segment and in this segment lies the answer to many questions, our competences with Europe and the world in science and, of course, the economy springs from science and can then be talked about the overall competence of our education system and our economy with Europe and the world and these laws and this law will not be able to achieve it. This is why Club Libre proposed 27 amendments to this Act, I will only talk here about those I consider to be the most important. It is very important that Article 2 of the amendment to Article 2 is very important, because the current amendment, or the proposal, of the article, calls into question the autonomy of the university in the past still in force. The National Council for Higher Education may set reviews for new university studies but programmes on behalf of university autonomy should be made by the Senate itself on the basis of these reviews and, of course, the National Council as an external body may also decide which of these programmes will be financed or not but may not determine which of the national councils will be the programmes of individual universities. This is a very serious intrusion into university autonomy, and therefore we have prescribed and proposed this change in Article 2 of the existing bill. We also consider it a very important amendment to Article 17. Namely, the existing bill goes backwards, the university council is abolished so that the main institution for the management of the university becomes a senate, and the Senate is as you know the composition of the dean of individual universities which actually in that Senate, it has shown the experience of taking more care of their partial interests, the interests of their colleges than they are taking care of the interests of the whole and perspectives of the development of the university. This has been shown and these are the logical interests, they need to be seen but then they need to be changed by the Deans who have been sitting in the Senate of the University and who, in fact, because of the interest of their colleges who should still change some relationships to go on integrations to much more dynamic relations, etc., they don't really want real university reform, and if we abolish the university council that is proposed by this law, that trend is even more strengthened. The university council still has another way of selecting and can, in some ways, pass by these interests of the dean to see which way and which perspectives to go and this bill abolishes the university council, so we propose, on behalf of the Club of the Libre, to abolish this Article 17 and to remain an existing structure, which means the rector, the Senate, the university council and the university council. It is a very important amendment, and in the event that this amendment is not accepted, we will in this sense, in terms of the actual integration of the university and the creation of a model similar to the European model, we will therefore take a step back. In addition to this position, the findings of the preparatory document for the ministerial conference took place in Prague in May 2001 when Croatia was admitted to the signing of the Bologna Declaration. The preparatory document was adopted two months earlier in Salamanca with the title Trans and Learning Structures Secund, which explicitly concludes that the basic problem of higher education system in Croatia is that universities are fragmented into very independent universities. And it is claimed that these fragmentations will not only make it difficult but will prevent the introduction of study programmes in line with the Bologna Declaration. And we keep the Senate in which only representatives are, not representatives, but leaders of the university, so this fragmentation continues, and we are likely to create really integrated universities, not to speed up this article but to slow down. There are, of course, other amendments on behalf of the Libre Club here. One very important amendment is that members of national councils should not be the principal people of universities or universities. These national councils determine both values, actually, the work of colleges and universities. If they sit in that same national council, they are in an eclectic conflict of interest. Therefore, we ask in our amendment that principals of universities or universities should not be members of national councils and they can be composed in another way by avoiding this conflict of interest. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of our most important remarks, i.e. the amendments, i will talk about them when the amendments are adopted, in short I do not think that this Law has shown that we are not ready to reform our high school system and that we are going to show not only that we are prepared, but that we are going to take this law for these reasons that I was talking about to take a step back in harmonising our high school system with such systems of the European Union, i.e. with the Bologna Declaration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18558	Thank you very much. We have one replica. Sir. Correction of the wrong quote, I saw yellow.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18559	So here I would argue that it's not true that our deans are monsters that are holding back reform. I would also argue that the evaluations contained in some documents are, of course, the result of the report of local experts who had a different view on the state of things than most of the academic community in the Republic of Croatia has at the moment. I don't think I'd want to go further into the discussion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18560	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18561	Mr. Vice President, of course I didn't say our deans were monsters. Therefore, this was not a correction to the incorrect assumption, and in this sense Mr. Representative Josipovic injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18562	Thank you very much. We haven't even heard the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18563	I'm sorry, I may have gone too far.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18564	I shall inform the representatives that Article 207 has expired for 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Ms. Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18565	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today we have heard a lot about these proposed amendments to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, but we must repeat that these changes are indeed a step towards the effectiveness of the existing law, which was passed on 31 July 2003, and it is obvious that the past government has also noticed that this Law is inconclusive in some provisions, and this situation has been corrected by a regulation already mentioned here. Furthermore, it is important to note from the applicant's explanation that why the need to pass laws is an emergency procedure. First of all, due to the deadline set out in the said regulation that the funding of surplus education under this law will begin on 1 July 2004, and that the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to adopt between the national rules on the establishment of state offices for the recognition of international qualifications and in line with the criteria of the European Union, which is a very significant reason. The amendments to the law in Articles 6, 7 and 8 amending the competence of the National Council for Science and the National High Education Council, which reduces the powers of conduct to facilitate the implementation of the law, are important. It is also important to mention, and would not agree here with Mr. Radosa the predecessor, that according to the proposed amendments, members of national councils cannot be state officials, but can now be directors of scientific institutes, rectors, prophesies, deans, which extends a truly round of people who can be members of the council. Article 5 of amending and supplementing the law better defines the activities of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. There are also significant changes in the law, they refer to the way in which the selection procedure is initiated, to its implementation, to the composition of the expert commission and to the rest. The new proposal allowed everyone to conduct the election procedure within the tendering procedure, whether it has such a choice or not, until now it has been specified that the election procedure in the context of the election in the workplace is to be carried out only if no accession has made the necessary choice. This proposal also corrected the injustice I believe towards scientific advisers who, according to the proposal to amend and supplement the law, made it possible to extend work contracts beyond 65 years of life so far, only for regular professors. What I particularly welcome is the amendment of Article 51 of the current law, in which a provision has been added to issue allowances to high school or university, if they have completed working contracts with full or incomplete working hours, with at least half the required number of teachers. I remind myself of the situation I would say in Croatia with the establishment of higher schools and universities, that they have been really nothing like mushrooms after the rain lately. This article 51 was also completed with another new commitment for higher education, that they must necessarily promote body exercises and student sports, which has been in colleges so far, in higher schools most often not. It is noted that this proposal for a law is a regulated education for military and police education, which has not been regulated by law so far. This law also provides for amendments to Article 56 to abolishing the university council, but it is possible for another management body to be established by the statutes of the university, therefore that is possible. I also think that the proposal for this law has simplified the funding process and that it will finally really work out all sublegal regulations along with the three registers and that indeed this applicable law that is now getting its full of these amendments and supplementing its full application. I believe that this bill has corrected a series of well-detected failures and that the deadlines set by those final and transitional provisions for the adoption of implementing rules will finally ensure the application of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18566	Thank you very much. There's a correction to an incorrect quote. She is the first female representative, Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18567	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I agree with most of what my colleague said. But one quote is incorrect, and I think it should be clarified. This law, which is all over higher education, does not fulfil any obligations towards the European Union, simply because there are no such obligations. The Bologna Declaration, which we have approached with our own will, is an act of free will, so that we all together in Europe do the same thing. But no one commits us to anything. The fact is that most or almost all European countries and those who have joined the European Union signed that declaration and that this is a general trend in Europe that we all use this process to modernise and harmonize. In this regard, it is very important to say that it is also bad to use this argument sometimes for some non-activating and implementing certain things that are not aimed at modernising raising the efficiency of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18568	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr Nikola Vuljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18569	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree, of course, with my colleague's exposure, it was constructive. However, two allegations are incorrect which I think should be mentioned not to remain unmarked. It is one thing that when establishing high schools and universities and giving passes and so far have not been worth any restrictions, they were worth, they could not be founded either universities or high schools without any restrictions in the number of employees and meeting other conditions. It seems to me that this condition if I calculate it is actually lighter than the previous one. And secondly, of course, we all support that sports and body exercises have been found in the legal text as an obligation of higher schools but all higher schools at least everyone I know in Croatia with regular students have had organised sports and exercise so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18570	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18571	Mr. Vice President, in order not to repeat the minor remarks and suggestions I had already been mentioned by my colleagues in the previous debates, I am giving up the debate. I will personally uphold the law anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18572	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18573	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18574	Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Representative Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would draw attention when it comes to this law on one thing that is actually in a tight relationship, absolutely in close connection with science and certainly to high education and that is what I would say about excellence in science and referring to publication in indexed international publications when it comes to our scientists. I'd just look back at it if we actually saw where we were. I tried to find actually a clue, a clue or some document that spoke about it, and unfortunately I was not successful, I found the youngest document that I came up with from 1997 and also published... by Mr Branimir Klaric of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and he is very interesting and these partial parts are actually information about what I found saying that they are, that this trend continues today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He actually did an analysis of 8 thousand, excuse me in 15 years from 80 to 95, 8 thousand 994 Croatian scientists and showed that, in fact, according to the publications they carried out in international magazines and according to the number of quotes, etc. These publications of 792 are at or above the world level, and it is interesting that half of them who are actually chemists and physicists in this group are only 10%, although they represent only 10% of the total number of scientists we talk about. Since 792, this scientist who I singled out 34% of them is from Ruđera Boskovic and 10% of them are from mathematics, so from the fields of mathematics and medical science. So they are all from these institutions and all these institutions from which they come are actually at the level of the average world science or even better than they are. It is important to mention that almost half of Croatian scientists have never published in any of these world magazines. So almost half of 8000 994. What am I saying that for? I was encouraged by the article I read recently, in fact which I read in the morning list where someone I remember doesn't have this article right now described our state of affairs here when it comes to particularly history, law and economy under the heading I mean "The breakdown of Croatian historical and legal sciences" and the answer came right from the Faculty of Law and I am very interested in what you say to Professor Josipovic about how it doesn't even need to be our scientists if I understand that correctly published in international magazines when it comes to some of the colleges. It's for me if it's really such a very, very significant message. So, we're gonna compete, but we're not going to go out on an international stage and we're not going to let us be evaluated. If that's how it's done, it's certainly not good. So when it comes to this law, I see an attempt to put an end to it and put order into higher education, especially when it comes to science. Especially when I read this law, I would actually draw attention to the fact that it might not be a bad thing if at some colleges it organized itself or committed that the exams were pre-guaranteed, that there was so-called. The calendar of the student exams might consider the idea that the dean can't play another role down there as a dean. When it comes to high schools here, I agree with all those who have said that the fungi are behind the rain and that they are actually in danger because people who go to them pay for their schooling and then a lot of our people from the university are leaving there, leaving among other things because of the money and teaching is very often the level of those who are not the most suitable, and then the substance of the university is being spent very much, and thus, in a certain way, the devalues both science and higher education. As far as this law is concerned, I can see that he is also based on the Bologna Declaration. What my colleague Lugarić was saying is I completely agree, so we accept this Bologna Declaration does not make a certain commitment but to achieve a sufficient and satisfactory level of science and all of those processes in this field that are in Europe and it might be good to think about maybe rerouting the funding of universities in such a way that universities become more legal entities that will actually assign money to universities within the university which will organise programmes and where certain professions such as in the world case will be organised and given to these programmes in a certain way. these colleges of services which will actually enable even higher autonomy of universities and in a certain way enable this agency that is being introduced here for science and higher education to which I would add another adjective. I don't know, maybe it's called the Agency for Accreditation or Quality if it's possible, because the very word of the Science and Higher Education Agency in itself doesn't say anything, but when it's read which roles it has and what is expected of it then it's actually a very important institution and I'd ask the question maybe it's not the happiest solution that it actually fits I don't know here I'm not sure I'm going to quote it exactly but I mean to the ministry or these national councils for science and the National Council for Higher Education. It might be better if it were actually independent and it were a guarantee of quality and programme and all of the other processes when it comes to science and higher education, which includes certainly the choice of people in individual titles, etc. And then there wouldn't be a word about this if there wasn't a need for people to compete or go out on an international stage when it comes to science and compete. I therefore believe that this law is an absolute step forward and that it will lead to the transformation of Croatian scientific and high educational activities in terms of the approximation and achievement of European standards. Therefore, as such, I support him and look forward to him personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18576	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18577	is, the text you refer to here I can be critical because there I was commended to publish abroad in fact the result of the misunderstanding that was imposed from the part I would say naturally oriented by our valuable scientists, researchers. [[The speaker is turned on afterwards, you can't hear it.]] Namely, social some social sciences especially the right, especially history are so-called. Nationally-oriented and their impact is not measured whether it is published or quoted, although it is worth understanding, I do not deny it, but not only in Germany but also in Germany, but also in what kind of social impact they have. Personally, if you'd like to have a discussion about The Hague last year, I was very happy to have seen my book on many benches not quoted by accident, the book was not quoted. Why? Because it's simply not a custom in that part of the scientific activity. And the most valuable works of historical rights are in Croatian rather than English because when writing legal texts in English, foreigners are interested in a general review. And the details of how the bankruptcy is arranged, how the procedure is arranged, they don't care. So there are other criteria for the promotion and evaluation of the ministry for those working on it must take care of it. Otherwise, if you didn't think that the law school was somehow primitive and remote, I don't think you're suggesting, I'd just mention that our fax had given the 4th man to the UN in... President EKOSOK, that we have the President of the Sea Law Court, that we have several judges of the Constitutional Court and that I do not say how many prime ministers from this day forward were from the ranks of the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18578	Reply to the replica, respected representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18579	I thank Mr. President, I really thank you for this information and, in fact, in a certain way... But then I read if I'm not mistaken that in fact in this one analysis, Croatia is among the 10 countries that are now joining the European Union compared to them the worst standing when compared to both right and in history and in the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if that is the case, then we must think that neither I know of our position and in opposing opinions at the International Court in The Hague or on the growth of the economy, etc., I think we must be aware of that. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18580	Second replica, respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18581	I didn't see a colleague Josipovic come forward, so I just wanted to say to my colleagues that your analysis is very accurate, very precise and I completely agree with it. What you clearly did not say, however, was that it was then that part of the world-recognizable scientists in our country was also responsible for the scientific youth and for the future of science in Croatia. I am therefore very pleased that the government has withdrawn a proposal for these two National Councils for Science, or Higher Education. And I would ask you to base these same criteria on your participation that these councils are essentially agreeing to be the most competent people you've ever talked about tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18582	And the third replica, the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18583	Thank you, Mr. President, I would refer only to this part of which the respected colleague spoke about the agency provided for in the law, that agency has a technical role and performs technical tasks for the national councils, it cannot, should not and should not be an attribute of quality, an arbitration of quality in the academic community, these criteria are established in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18584	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18585	... It can't be and it's not if there's a neat standing that in... [[Specially enabled.]] evaluation of the system for improving and guaranteeing quality in higher schools. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the answer is the answer. Well, what good is her role at all if it's not a role between other things and quality control. I'm making a comparison now, and maybe I'm wrong about the same kind of system in health care, so there's hospital accreditation. Therefore, the agency that would carry out the hospital's accreditation had to be independent and that was able to say you're doing it well, you're not doing it well. I'll come to you in a year and you'll be accredited or not. So it's just basically a verification of the credibility of a particular role that a particular institution has, I understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18586	Thank you very much. Does the secretary of state want it? Yeah. State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports Mr. Slobodan Zelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18587	Mr. President, is this the last turn or the clarification of this alone? Final word?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18588	That's the final word!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18589	That's the final word. Thank you very much. Thank you for that opportunity. Let the ladies and gentlemen first of all express my gratitude to all of you who have participated in the debate may be our impression that we have received unusually much commendation for what we have done, of course thanks to all of you who have commended it but truly sincerely especially to those who have critically referred to what we have done. Because they just hit what we're less content with, and they're completely dissatisfied. And right now, let me say that in our opinion, it's part of the job that's ahead of us that we would do when we have a more suitable opportunity than the opportunity to amend and supplement the existing law. I am announcing, in fact, our idea right away that we would very soon approach the new law by following the demands of time and space in which we are dealing with this issue and inheriting everything that has been good so far and in this law that is in force and in what we are doing now to correct this Law. It has already been discussed part of the answer to the question of how many rounds of people participated in this business, a very wide circle of people in relatively short time. From above all the experts of lawyers, experts who did what they did was their trade, which is that they arranged the Law from the point of view of the legal profession. They were especially grateful for that because we saw the current law suffer well from this disease. In addition, we also spent several times consulting with representatives of all universities, the rectorial assembly, both national councils, trade unions, students, and representatives of truth in November we did not go beyond those bodies. So we opened up this possibility that people would directly and openly suggest to us the various ideas that we have, most of which we have appreciated. ... Of course not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I repeat once again the concept on which this bill is not a new concept, we followed the concept of the law to the end, there were also proposals that went in the other direction. I remind you, this law combines science and higher education, it is not necessary. Science doesn't have to be about higher education, it can be about other activities, right?- I'm sorry. It's such a concept. We didn't touch him at this hour. Maybe we are, maybe we'll talk about it openly next time. Let us now look at some of the important issues that I consider particularly mentioned in the debate. Perhaps the clarification will help us to understand each other better and to reduce our thinking. First of all, as far as police and military studies at the university are concerned. Of course, by entering these studies at the university, these studies take over all the university’s responsibilities and benefits. But because of the character of activity you will agree I hope the need remains for these two resolutions with the Ministry of Science which has the supervision of law also to be able, with full respect for the autonomous eu professional and scientific issues, also to carry part of the supervision of that activity. I don't think there's much to explain. After all, similar experiences in the world are not unknown. As for the remarks of the distinguished representative Vuljanic that the deans are mandatory in the Senate, they are not mandatory in the Senate, but are not mandatory nor outside it. It simply remains a possibility for a member of the university to assess for itself which representative they will have in the Senate. It seems to us that it's a step back just at first sight. In a situation where we are coming out of an unwanted state, and indeed the unwanted state is such a measure of university independence, and such a small measure of the community of the university to say in this situation is necessary for all members of universities and large and small articulating common university policy to have a direct opportunity to participate in this. We don't think it's necessary in advance to declare the first function in the university to be the bearer of some disintegrating function at the university. We don't see why that would be. As far as the university councils are concerned, it is also said, we have here prescribed a minimum of what must exist. But indeed the universities can return the councils to their statutes and other bodies that they consider necessary for this university community in a given situation. This is indeed possible in the statutes. As far as language proposals are concerned. We're really not happy here. We came from the fact that Croatian laws should be written in Croatian. It's a general starting point. The example that is often mentioned here was the subject of our numerous consultations with the linguists and what we suggest in some way is the reach that we have reached. I repeat, we are not happy about this. To avoid confusion, as you can see in the proposal, we left the original Latin name in brackets. We think that's what left the broad possibility of double use. As far as the binary system of university and university studies is concerned, I ask for an important note. It's not even in our mind to claim, even less to prescribe by law that high school studies are less valuable than universities. It's not a second-rate study, but it is a different study. It's different but not less important. And we don't think that kind of interpretation comes from our proposals, we certainly didn't want to, and I believe we didn't. It is simply that both such systems of study are necessary and are desirable for both to be developed. And as for the deadlines within which it is mandatory to set the prescribed deadline in the law by us is realistically measured. Every shorter deadline would seem to be, you would be unrealistic, and in it under the given circumstances it would be difficult for us to do what we wanted to do. To be honest, we are afraid of the situation we had last year in Split. And with full responsibility, the Ministry puts the problem before you confidently that such deadlines are real deadlines within which it can bear that responsibility. And she doesn't want to share it with anyone. Because she can't share it with anyone. As far as national councils are concerned, one and the other. I just want to remind you that innovations are going towards the fact that national councils as the highest expert bodies must lose their operational role. In the current law, you have solutions under which the National Council of Ministers propose regulations. That seems totally unacceptable to us. These are not bodies that need to do these preparatory, almost operational tasks for the minister. It should be the other way around. The Minister and the Ministry have services that will do the job, and then the National Council will have the opportunity to give that consent or deny it. These are therefore the divisions, the division of the work that they do, make the function clearer, the division of responsibility clearer and so on. In the proposal for criteria for the selection of national councils, we find it unnecessary, not to tell the harmful that, in the National Science Council, representatives of all regions from Croatia are mandatory. So science is not evenly distributed by country. We think that, so we think that, that we should reflect that criterion but not as strictly as we do now... It's the same with scientific areas. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Starting from the fact that even now there's an imbalance in this, in the suggestions that we've been, that we've been witnessing, but if we're still or, or something like that, and by law, then we're just going through the wrong thing that we've made. As for the autonomy of the university and the university, we disagreed with those colleagues and colleagues who advocated equal autonomy of the university and the university. We think, then, that school doesn't, not that it shouldn't, but it can't have the autonomy of a college. The university is a union of two functions; learning and research and science, and the school does not necessarily have this second function. And with that in mind, I remind her of a constitutional provision that, in this way, speaks of the university and leaves it with that autonomous function. And now perhaps part of the answer to the esteemed Mr. Radosh's eye, about the national councils and, and getting into autonomy. In the good part, you're right if I can tell you this directly. But at some point we make sure that, yes, that, according to our proposal, the agency is an expert body serving the National Council. The National Council shall be elected by the Parliament on a proposal from the Government. It's called Parliament. And if that autonomy is thus suspended or restricted then it is quite conditional and the restriction arises from the Parliament and as such we consider it desirable at some point. Why? Because we don't actually have a quality assurance function. And we don't have that in this law. The agency is a bad substitute for what we don't have. And if I may immediately announce a proposal to go to a special law to regulate such a service, such a function as part of an international, international network of those services, which, as an independent network, will be a guarantee of quality and as such responsible to itself and those criteria, rather than to any state bodies in the country that belong to it. We don't have that right now. What we're proposing is a transitional solution and we think it's better than nothing because we don't actually have anything right now. So here's the thing, that's the part. And maybe that's it, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18590	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal of this law. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill number 137. The debate on the text of the law is over. I'd like the Secretary of State of State, Professor Free Taker, to be made aware of the amendments submitted. And the vice president of Mr. Luka Bebić's home to take over the presidency.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18592	Amendment 1. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18593	Amendment 1. The government doesn't accept a brief explanation. Scientific organisations are given and should be empowered to conduct the election process and not only the powers to prepare the election decision, here is a brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18594	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18595	Mr Vice President, in our first part of the amendment it is important to point out that in addition to the division of science in fields and branches, there are interdisciplinary scientific fields. In the second paragraph of this amendment, it is more clear what scientific institutions are empowered to do. In particular, the decision on elections in scientific titles shall be made by the parent committees and scientific institutions shall not be authorised to conduct the selection process, but shall, in a manner detailed in Article 35. The law and Article 8 of this Act shall draw up decisions of the parent committee on the selection. That's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18596	Thank you very much. Who is for this proposal that the Government does not accept, this amendment? Thank you for not getting the required number of votes. 2. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of libre also.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18597	2. The Government also does not accept it because it is about standards and criteria that all organisations and systems with the right of autonomy must meet, and as far as the rest of the amendment is concerned, it already exists in the Law and it is unnecessary to supplement it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18598	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18599	Mr. Vice President, our amendment is trying to protect the autonomy of the university when this government has proposed will be questioned. The National Council for Higher Education, giving reviews but programs should be brought to the Senate itself. Therefore, if this is not accepted, then the National Council will also determine the programmes of this university which will, of course, question its autonomy, so I am asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18600	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much for not getting the necessary majority. The Club of Representatives of the libre 3rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18601	Amendment number 3. The government doesn't accept it either. The amendment prevents individuals and groups of scientists from proposing candidates for these bodies, which we think is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18602	Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18603	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State has not properly interpreted the amendment. The amendment does not prevent this, but prevents the leaders of high school and other and scientific institutions, rectors, proctors, deans, etc. be members of the National Council for Science or the National Council for Higher Education. Because these councils judge the work of their institutions. And by doing so, these leaders would come into a great conflict of interest. So that doesn't make sense. Therefore, there is no explanation of Mr. Secretary of State and I request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18604	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. ... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18605	The government does not accept this amendment. In the third part of the Agency, it refers and should apply to all universities and not only schools, especially the lack of an institution to guarantee quality as part of the international network of institutions, which we discussed more yesterday.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18606	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18607	So, uh... And I've explained this earlier in the first amendment that it's a violation of university autonomy. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] But since no amendment has been accepted, I am withdrawing this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18608	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Amendment 5 by Mr. Dr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18609	This amendment shall be accepted. It's really about a flaw that's being corrected by the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18610	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of libre on Amendment No 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18611	This amendment is not accepted. Namely, the Proposer proposes detailed evaluation criteria that should be regulated by sublaws rather than by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18612	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18613	The criteria for the evaluation of higher schools are such an important thing, that they should be in law, and, of course, by sublegal acts, they can be further elaborated. Because on these criteria actually rests the quality or possibly the unquality of high-school work. Therefore, the amendment is actually very important and I request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18614	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. The Club of Representatives of the LIBRA on Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18615	Amendment 7. The government doesn't accept. Namely, it is incorrect for the applicant to conclude from the proposal that the parent committee only confirms the decision of the parent organisation. On the contrary, it shall result in paragraphs 5, 7 and 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18616	Thank you very much. The Club of Representatives of libre, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18617	It's about the already rejected amendments, so I'm pulling this off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18618	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you very much. Club of representatives of the LIBRA on Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18619	The amendment, I think 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18620	And eight. Club of Representatives of libre, Amendment 8. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18621	Therefore, powers are once again proposed only to prepare the election process, which is unacceptable, explained earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18622	Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18623	For the same reasons as the previous case, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18624	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. The Club of Representatives of the LIBRE Amendment 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18625	The government does not accept this amendment. Allow a sentence that is higher. In fact, according to the current Act of Employment Competition, the election procedure is conducted only if none of the accessionees have a priorly implemented choice in the scientific calling necessary for that post. And if a single accessor already has that, the others immediately fall out of the process, which of course does not mean that the accessor does not meet the required conditions, or that it is worse than the others.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18626	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18627	We believe that the existing article 40 is better than this, because this article can actually cause very difficult complications in choosing high school titles. Because it's actually becoming a legitimate absurd situation that if a competition besides a number of registered candidates who meet the requirements of a tender is to be reported by one who doesn't meet it then it has to wait for him to meet those conditions. Therefore, this is an absurd complication in one case of conditions of competition and elections. So we think it's harmful. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18628	Thank you very much. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. The Club of Representatives of the LIBRA Amendment 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18629	The government does not accept this amendment. Namely, this article cannot be deleted. Why? Because it leads to a necessary connection with the above-mentioned text of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18630	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18631	The amendment would make sense to delete if a previous amendment had been adopted. Since he's not adopted, I'm pulling him out.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18632	Thank you very much. This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 11. The Club of Representatives of LIBRA as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18633	The government does not accept this amendment. The proposal makes it clear that co-workers, assistants and senior assistants are chosen by co-workers, and according to the employment contract, that is, employment in the workplace. The existing law did not specify this precisely, which caused difficulties in the system. It is therefore a matter of employment, and it is also a matter of recruiting. We haven't changed that thing, we just explained that hiring a scientific recruit is limited over the course of the scientific project, we think that's the way to stay. And otherwise basically a good idea to be offered here is looking for a broader conceptual debate that comes out of the framework of amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18634	Thank you very much. Mr. Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18635	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18636	This amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 12 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18637	This amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18638	Thank you very much. 13th Amendment of Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18639	On the contrary, high schools can be members of the university by the specified deadline and we believe that it should remain as proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18640	Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18641	The idea was that high schools being supervised by the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Defence for preservation not only of autonomy, but also of university dignity could not be members of the university. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18642	I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. The club of representatives of libre... Number 14. [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18643	This amendment is also not accepted by the Government. It is, in fact, a large conceptual issue that requires a broad discussion and it is a post-graduate study at the institutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18644	Thank you. Mr. Jose Radosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18645	So, we believe that institutes should be allowed, of course, under the conditions that it is normally prescribed in the law to organise after a degree in doctoral studies, because such institutes sometimes have better conditions for that than some universities and universities. So that's a very important question, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18646	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 15. The Club of Representatives of LIBRA as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18647	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. In fact, this article just rationalized the system of leadership of the university seems to be the way it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18648	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18649	This is a very important amendment in our opinion, so I'm going to say a little bit more about it. This amendment abolishes the university council. So that the Senate of universities most often made up of deans is actually made up of institutions that sometimes have no interest in reforming the university, or they have no interest in looking at the entire interest of the university and this would be the university council if it remained as an institution which, in a different way, made it possible, therefore also to see other interests which could be seen including interests of the whole of the university. Therefore, I request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18650	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number 16. The Club of Representatives of libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18651	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking for a little more attention on this amendment. In the small part, in the fourth part, the applicant is right. A wrong call has been detected and that part of the amendment is acceptable. It's obviously a technical mistake. The items were replaced instead of standing on the 8th and 7th stands at 1st and 2nd, but the content of the amendments is recognizable in the three preceding paragraphs for reasons which we have already mentioned on several occasions, it is the university council and so on. So this fourth part of the amendment is acceptable, it's really a technical regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18652	Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18653	Since the rejection of the amendments to the previous University Council has made no sense then this amendment does not make sense in that part. In this second section of the Secretary of State, I don't mind being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18654	Thank you very much. Accepted in a section accepted by the government. The Club of Representatives LIBRA 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18655	This amendment has not been accepted for several reasons. It's about the composition of the Senate, the university council, and one of us seems to need an invertation of a sentence that doesn't basically get anything significant.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18656	It's the same story. So, since the university council was abolished then this amendment doesn't make sense and I'm pulling it back.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18657	This amendment has been withdrawn. The Club of Representatives LIBRE Amendment number 18.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18658	And yet again the same argument regarding the university council that would no longer exist here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18659	Same reason I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18660	This amendment has been withdrawn. Thank you. The Club of Representatives of the LIBRA Amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18661	For the same reasons and amendment 19.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18662	Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18663	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18664	Amendment 19 has been withdrawn. The Club of Representatives LIBRA 20.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18665	This amendment is not acceptable for the following reason. It is about the specificity of individual studies in us, the tradition of individual studies, such as the study of medicine, the study of law and the need for time to adapt these studies could be difficult to accept a strict provision that it is not possible to study longer than the concept of three years and then continue two or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18666	Mr. Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18667	So, Mr. Secretary of State is talking about that being part of our tradition but we're like the state signatories of the Bologna Declaration. The Bologna Declaration says that studies usually last three years rather than four years as they do in Croatia. Therefore, if we accept this amendment, we will be completely in line with the Bologna Declaration, or with the dominant solutions in the world, or Europe. Therefore, I request a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18668	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since it is now 23 and 45 minutes and 55 seconds and that the regular session of the Assembly may take up to 24 hours to determine the end of this session and I call on the presidents of the clubs to, in their previous opinion, in accordance with Article 98. I will schedule an extraordinary session with the beginning of 24 hours and 1 minute the following day and with the agenda to complete the vote and discuss the Proposal for a Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia, on the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of an election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia and on the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of Presidents of the Republic and Elections and Points. I'm asking the club presidents to meet me at my office right now. It's 11:00.45.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18671	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. It's about professional studies. The amendment is to say that if a professional study is at the university he does not need to meet any additional conditions. The National Council's consent and so on. It is our view that these conditions should be met and we remain with this formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18672	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18673	It's not an accurate interpretation of the Secretary of State. It is not ingenuity, the intensity of this amendment, but that one body outside the university does not decide on the programme but there are, of course, other ways, including the legal frameworks that must be respected in order for the university to be a quality study. But since that's already removed our amendment from, to previous our amendments then I withdraw this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18674	Thank you very much. Amendment 21 withdrawn. Amendment 22, also the Club of Representatives Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18675	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The truth is, there's little difference between our proposal and the amendment, but we're still staying with our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18676	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18677	Well, I'd just like to tell my colleagues what it's really about. The point is that according to this proposal, the highest grade at the university would be... /The speaker was excluded/... while the grade in primary and secondary schools would be excellent. If an excellent better expression for any reason is more appropriate then it should be in both primary and secondary schools. If these are two completely equal terms, then there is no reason to do this precedent. Students in primary and secondary schools will be confused in this way. So this is a completely wrong solution. It would be good if, therefore, the expression is excellently better than the expression excellent to introduce it by a general act both in primary schools and in secondary schools and in natural higher education institutions. I therefore request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18678	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The 23rd has already been consumed by the previous vote. 24. The club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18679	Here it was probably meant to be article 30. I suppose the esteemed Proposer has made an accidental mistake. It's about art or higher education studies at the university. The government doesn't accept this amendment here's why. The higher school art study is a subclass of art studies, but it is still a special study, so it is necessary to define exactly what this is about. In fact, it may not be wrong to think that it is a university, university study because it is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18680	Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18681	This term is introduced into the Law only at the end of the Law. Nowhere in the Law there is no concept of higher education, art studies, but all higher education studies and artistic and unartificial distributions are not university and professional. The introduction of this term for the first time only at the end of the law actually doesn't make much sense. But I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18682	24th Retired. 25. The club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18683	This amendment is not accepted by the Government. It is a proposal that the publication of competitions in the daily press is not considered mandatory. Our opinion is that we should be considered mandatory and we stay with our proposal. And allow another item 3. It's earlier. We talked about it earlier. It is a matter of mandatory prior choice of all approaches to scientific calling which we think must remain regulated in the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18684	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18685	Thank you very much. Amendment 25 withdrawn. Amendment 26. The club of Representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18686	The government doesn't accept. The amendment would not necessarily repeat what is already regulated by calling for Article 98.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18687	A fellow Radosh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18688	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18689	Thank you very much. Amendment 26 withdrawn. Amendment of 27th Representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18690	This amendment is being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18691	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 28. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18692	And this amendment is being accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18693	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 29. The Club of Representatives Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18694	This amendment is not accepted. Again, it is about the existence of a university council that comes out of the concept of the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18695	A fellow Radosh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18696	Since previously accepted solutions rejected by our amendments have been abolished by the University Council this amendment makes no sense, so I am withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18697	Thank you. Amendment 29 withdrawn. Amendment 30. Also the Club of Representatives Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18698	This amendment is not accepted because the amendment introduces a new concept of recruit financing, but the truth of the idea is worth a thorough debate and probably a new, conceptually new commitment to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18699	A fellow Radosh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18700	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18701	Thank you. 30th Amendment withdrawn. 31 representatives of Ivo Josipovic. This amendment is also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18704	This amendment is not accepted for two reasons. The first erasure would cause a legal gap and the second proposal also too norms the process of integration of otherwise autonomous system such as the University of A further only by mentioning that status changes are being resolved by the Constitutional Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18705	A fellow Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18706	I'd like to tell you a little bit more about what's going on here. The current provisions on the deadline for the actual integration of the university are so foggy that it doesn't really mean anything. Our Amandamic is carefully developing the process of integration of the university with the appropriate deadlines. It is precisely in this sense that the deadlines should be chosen so that real integration is implemented at the end of the current rectors' term of office. If existing solutions are left, then the question is when will real integration occur.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18707	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 33 of Agent Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18708	The government does not accept this amendment we remain on the deadline of the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18709	Dear Representative Chehok, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18710	Mr. President. The secretary of state loses every legislative sense when so long transitional deadlines are prescribed. It is about establishing a binary system, which is extremely important for Croatian higher education. According to data available today in European Union countries, about 70% of students finish professional studies. We practically delay the start of separation of universities and higher universities, i.e. the establishment of a binary system by 2010. 2011 Ladies and gentlemen, it's too long for anyone to know what's going to happen in those six years. Therefore, our proposal is that it be the school year of 2007, 2008 and I demand a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18711	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment to the 34th Representative Slaven Letica was also consummated. Amendment 35 of the Club of Representatives Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18712	The government doesn't accept. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is established, so we suggest that it remain the formulae it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18713	A fellow Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18714	We propose this amendment because the current National Science Council expired its mandate under the Law on Scientific Research in late March 2002. Thus, this article is pointless, so we suggest that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18715	I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18716	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18717	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of 37 respected MP Nikola Buljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18718	36
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18719	And 36 pardons yes. Club representative Libra.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18720	This amendment is accepted, namely the applicant correctly respects the nomotechnical failure that took place here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18721	Thank you very much. The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. The 37th Amendment of MP Nikola Buljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18722	This amendment does not accept whether the dean or the head of the department will be members of the Senate we leave to the members of the university and we do not regulate the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18723	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18724	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. Amendment 38 of the also respected representative Nikola Vuljanić
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18725	And this mandate is not accepted by the government, namely the amendment comes out of the concept on which this law is based.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18726	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18727	If I may only sentence the idea was to lead to an equal position of professional and university studies and empower students who complete professional studies at the level of graduate studies to get a recognizable title. What the law now proposes to get is to get the title of a specialty that is short-speaked. which will mean nothing in Croatia for the next 20 years. But I would ask that the vote be made under this amendment, and it seems to me that it is an important thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18728	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 38 of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. 39 amendments were consumed because they were voted through Amendment Czechook 33. It was that. Thank you. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, with 96 votes for and 1 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Scientific Activity, and high education in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. The announcement of conclusions seems to have some problems with the proposal for conclusions. You suggested no to the Parliament but. That's the board's conclusion. And is that the Committee's conclusion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18729	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, there is no Vice-President of the Committee who was not present at the sittings. I think members of the board that were able to agree. Obviously, the Committee's professional service has misrepresented the conclusion, and Mr. Secretary of State agrees. At its session, the Committee reached a conclusion proposing to the Croatian Assembly two conclusions, the first to implement the draft and corrections of the text, as we have seen these problems. And that is, the second conclusion that the consolidated text of the law is issued. I, this is badly formulated, but I believe it's an oversight of professional service on the board, so please, I think the board members here agree that that's what we agreed on. So I ask that we vote on these board conclusions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18730	All right. Okay. Then, the Committee's conclusion is that the Croatian Parliament is proposed to adopt the urgent procedure of this law. That's the bottom one. Then that's no longer necessary. Check the proposed text from a linguistic point of view, in particular in case of some termological doubts. And that's okay. Because it also belongs to the release of the consolidated text and the authority of the Committee on Law and it is a matter of order I think that conclusion is fine that we do not have to vote on it in particular. Because it's being accepted, otherwise it's a regular thing. But please let's go to this suggestion of conclusions except for this first one that's been consumed. Who's in favour of that proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Congested? There isn't. I find these conclusions unanimously adopted. Now you have the amendments. We've been through this before. Then this is settled. Now we only have three points left for which I suggest they join one with the clubs for 20 minutes, or who's speaking on behalf of the clubs. - Final draft law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 138. - Final draft law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 139; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 119; There is a proposal for a SDP representative club and these two previous are the Government. The promoter of these two is the Government, the debate was conducted in all three draft laws of the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution and the political system. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. I would first of all ask State Secretary Antun Palaric to further explain these two proposals to the government's laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18732	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the council. We are ahead of us with presidential elections, so the government wants to settle with these two draft laws all of those open issues concerning both the financing of the electoral campaign and the rights of the President of the Republic at the end of office, so they also concern those who will be presidential candidates. The Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic, upon termination of our duties, proposes to further strengthen the integrity of the functions of the President of the Republic by creating material and technical assumptions that the President of the Republic may continue with the activities that are appropriate to the former President of the Republic. We suggest that the government provide the former president with physical protection and personal driver and personal official vehicle. We also want it to be prescribed that the President of the Republic is made available at the end of his duty to the office room suitable for the conduct of his activities that he will have at the end of his duties. Two civil servants who will assist the president in his work will also be provided with a burden on the state budget. We suggest that salaries for officials and energy costs, equipment, furniture fall on the burden of the state budget. This right of the former president of the Republic could benefit while he considers it necessary in the government's view it may be permanent but according to the president's opinion it will last as long as he wishes. And we also want to solve a possible open question, and this in the event of the death of the President of the Republic of Croatia, that funeral costs fall on the burden of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft law on the financing of electoral promotion wanted to introduce order in the way of obtaining funds for election promotion. We wanted to define what these funds could be spent on, as well as to attribute certain sanctions if the promotion funds were supplied contrary to the provisions of this Act. Our basic principle that the candidate for President of the Republic can finance his promotion from his own resources and from donations of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. Of course, after the election results have been announced, the presidential candidate who carries out the legally prescribed majority of votes, which is according to the current 10% vote law, will receive a fee from the state budget for part of the cost of the election pre-demand. And according to the decision on the amount of electoral promotion to be settled from the state budget that the government has made 30 days before the election day. We want to remove the possibility and abuse of positions by this law and also remove the possibility that the elected president will come into conflict with the dependence on the people who made the donation, so we suggest that donations from foreign states and foreign political parties be banned. Of public companies, legal persons with public authority and companies in the majority ownership of the auction. These other legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional self-government or regional self-government have majority ownership over shareholders and shares. These public and other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local or regional self-government. further, we want to prohibit receiving donations from Synicates and employers' associations. We also want to prohibit receiving donations from trust and foundation associations, whose members are members of state authorities. Or our intention was to eliminate the possibility for the heads of state to manipulate the funds of the associations and finance the campaign against this bill We prohibit and propose that the financing of presidential promotions from the budget of the units of local self-government and the budget of the regional co-government units be prohibited. From the assets of companies owned and co-owned by units of local and regional self-government. This institution which is the founder of states or units of local or regional self-government. The means of electoral promotion could be used to organise promotional events, distribution of promotional materials, production of radio and television videos, and other things commonly considered an election promotion. It is possible that the candidate for President of the Republic will be the current state official. Which benefits from the regular implementation of its activities to fund the state budget, and therefore we want to exclude it by this law, unless in the case of a person protected by a special regulation, he or she has a obligation or a right to physical protection. And he could use what special regulation allows him to use in his promotional travel activities, by coming to various gatherings. Because this regulation is not only a right but also an obligation to protect a national official of a given category. The government has therefore gone from full confidence in the state election commission to overrun the procurement control mechanisms, in such a way as to give great authority to the State Election Commission that it can publish donations that are not in line with this Act. However, in discussions on the Committees, particularly on the Committee on the Constitution of the Rules of Procedure and the political system, this provision has proved to be controversial, therefore it has been sent here to the Government of the Amendment Committee and I trust you and the Government in principle to accept the weight of the part in the content of that amendment. Therefore, I would not like the debate to be burdened with such a proposed solution. Already as one whole text in line with the amendments of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In order to address these open issues in time before the official launch of the election promotion, we propose that these laws be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18733	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the honourable representative, Vice-President of the House, Matu Arlovic, to explain the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18734	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club has been motivated for several reasons to prepare the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Of course, one that can be pragmatic is that it is nearing the end of the current term to the current elected President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, and that soon it is expected, and certainly somewhere at the end or early next year, to call the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia again. We believe that issues about elections, rights, obligations and responsibilities should be regulated both by candidates, both parties and all other participants in the election in time so that there should be no and should not be any appropriate irregularities, questions and problems in the framework of the election campaign, or rather, we feel that it is necessary to ensure that the electoral system is familiar, stable and in this respect to ensure fair, fair and legal election promotion, campaign, or overall elections that must enable all candidates to have an equal position, i.e. equality with the law. The second reason that it motivated us is because of this we have just proposed, I will start with this, believing that if the majority party, in principle, has more hands in Parliament, determined not to accept our bill that it will initiate and motivate the majority party, or the government to prepare the necessary amendment and addition of the law. Why? For this reason, another reason that motivated us to approach the amendment of this law, which is, above all, necessary to bring the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia into line with the new draft Constitution, i.e. the amended Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, notably with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 May 2004 and, of course, the decision of the 2002 Constitutional Court. You see the third reason is the need to align this law with the legal system in relation to laws within the legal system that are sometimes reported as jus generalis or as jus specialis, i.e. as lex specialis. It is therefore necessary to see and for these reasons to bear in mind and to approach the actual arrangement of this amendment and addition. Of course, the fourth reason is materially legal. We felt and felt that it was really necessary to introduce in our electoral system another law, a law on the financing of election campaigns that would regulate the issue of election campaigns of all representatives, i.e. all participants in the elections from local representatives to local, representative bodies of local and regional self-government units until elections for the Croatian Parliament and for the President of the Republic. But until this single law was passed, we felt that it was necessary for the sake of transparency, for the public's insight into the financing of the election campaign only to implement the election campaign, to spend the funds and relations between the candidates, to practically regulate this issue both with the President of the Republic, and in this way we suggested that amendments and additions should be extended, practically complemented by this law and with these issues, and that, of course, as we can see it has already been initiated in some way by the Government to propose its own special law, not by a special chapter, or by a special couple of articles, to settle this issue, so let's go in order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that, within 60 days, elections must be held in cases where cases set out in the Constitution referred to in Article 96(3) occur and that is where, because of the permanent prevention or the God of the death of the President of the Republic, the second president shall be replaced, then, within 60 days, the conditions for holding elections must be maintained or must be established. We in the current Law on Elections for the President of the Republic have, in fact, the situation that this was similarly arranged, but this was referred to in Article 97(1). The Constitution, therefore, is quite different from what is now in the Constitution after the amendments to the Constitution and therefore the issue should be settled. The second issue related to compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court is the fact that the Constitutional Court has found, among other things, that Articles 44(1) and (2) and 47(1) are unconstitutional and that it is practically necessary to open the space for the President to be able to participate and submit objections to the protection of his rights in relation to the State Election Commission, which has not been explicitly stated under the law, and of course, when it comes to Article 44(1), it is necessary to provide practically all political parties and all other parties who control and these 100 voters with the ability to exercise practical control and to submit objections to the election of the President of the Republic. The third reason for compliance with the laws adopted in the meantime is the fact that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Origin and under that law has been abolished for the purposes of reconciling that matter with the constitutional matter on the protection of personal data which the Constitution explicitly prescribes and prescribes when and in what way personal data can be used, and that is explicitly when it prescribes the law on the one hand and allows, on the other hand, when it has the consent of one whose data is collected and, of course, in cases where it is approved by the Ministry of Interior, it is for the purposes of special protection of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, we believe that in this part we should have resolved the issues that are related and as a legal void, which is, among other things, the issue in fact in the collection of gifts, i.e. donations and other means for implementing not only electoral promotion but practically election campaign presidential candidates, and therefore we propose in our proposal the law first to elect, that giving gifts to the candidate should be prohibited by the authorities of state authorities, bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other legal persons with public authority. It is then necessary to prohibit this from public companies, i.e. companies and other legal entities in which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional regional self-government have majority ownership over shares, i.e. shares and public and other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, it could not be done by associations of citizens and trusts whose members are members of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional regional self-government and other legal entities with public authority. Furthermore, we do not believe that gifts should be allowed to be given to candidates by domestic entrepreneurs and legal entities operating with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia in order to obtain profits, i.e. in the last two calendar years, which have received support from the state, local self-government units and areas of regional self-government or other legal persons with public authority who received money from funds in which the state or units of local and regional self-government transferred money from their budget and those who lost their business in the previous year. We also believe that this should be prohibited by the authorities of the state authorities of foreign states and public undertakings, i.e. companies and other legal entities in which foreign states, or units of their local and regional self-government, have majority ownership over shares, i.e. shares and public undertakings owned by foreign governments or owned by units of local self-government as well as foreign nationals themselves. We also think it is very important that the voters of the Republic of Croatia have the possibility of public control in fact the election campaign that takes place and that from the point of view of the collection, so from the point of view of spending money. And finally, fair relations in the election campaign itself. We therefore propose that the candidate for President, the Republic, is required within 8 days of the elections being held, to submit a report to the Electoral Commission on the funds spent on the selection of the promotion. Then the report must contain information on the selection of funds, and in the case of cash or non-money gifts received, data on the donor, monetary value of the gift, etc. We also consider and prescribe, we propose to prescribe that the State Election Commission will publish this information in the National Journal as a summary report with sources of funds, on the funds spent for the election promotion of the President of the Republic. In addition to these issues that we covered, of course, that we covered a very specific issue, which is participation in the financing of election campaign of presidential candidates from the Croatian budget, i.e. units of local self-government. And we think, first of all, that election campaigns need, to spend resources on candidates in some way to limit the instructive norm. And we propose to limit it to 7 million kuna, some believe it is a little too much, some that it is too little, but in any case all are to limit such spending in the election campaign and given the opportunities in which the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, etc. And on the third hand, the fact is it's not small money for an election campaign. Therefore, we believe that it should be limited to 7 million, but we also believe that it is necessary in a certain way to ensure proper sanctions if the candidates do not comply with this restriction. In such a situation, we believe that those candidates who do not adhere to restrictions could not participate in the division of funds allocated from the state budget to assist candidates in the election campaign because of their own wasteful behaviour in the election campaign itself. We also believe that there is another way to regulate participation in the division of funds. So far, it is legal to see that every candidate who has crossed at least 10% of the electoral threshold, so he would have had to have the opportunity to participate in those funds and receive compensation for those funds and they were generally shared with those candidates equally. We believe it is not correct to give the same than to apply the electoral criterion. Because each candidate, depending on how much he won the fallen votes, should actually enable him to participate in the funding of the state budget that is being financed and thus, practically stimulated by the one who received the most, which is ultimately given to citizens and voters the highest degree of trust. We support the firm idea that appeared in our political and democratic practice from different institutions and the institution of justice that it is necessary to adopt in Croatia as soon as possible a law on a permanent electoral commission that would be permanent, professional and that would, in an appropriate way, actually follow and conduct all elections. But we also believe that until a new law on permanent election committees is passed that it cannot be left to guess who is president of the electoral commission in the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why we suggest that it be until such a law is passed, the President of the Supreme Court. Furthermore, we propose to align this law with the whole, with the terminology that is necessary and not only for nomotechnical but also for substantive reasons, and it is related to the amendments and additions to the Law on Government, the Law establishing the Ministry, administrative and other organisations. Then it is related to harmonising with the Law on Croatian Television and the Law on Elections that they have accepted, and they have stated that we do not have an electoral commission of the Republic of Croatia, but the State Election Commission, so to speak, etc., etc. And therefore for nomotechnical reasons. From all these situations, we conclude very simply. The fact is that some of the provisions we have proposed in the amendments and additions to this Act are now covered by the proposal for a law on the financing of election promotions by the President of the Republic of Croatia. But it is also a fact that some important provisions that are not large are not covered, and it is necessary to make them in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court's decision. And in this respect, we are fully aware that, given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a certain danger that, in fact, after the debate, no decision on acceptance will be taken but the most likely decision on non-acceptation will be taken because the Government does not support this Amendment and Supplements Act on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. But at the same time, we feel that it is necessary to be fully aware of the real situation in which we are for formal and content reasons. And in this respect, we, as a club, will be pleased if this leads to a new amendment and addition of the bill that will come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the majority party's club in the 9th month. Because it is necessary to make these amendments in order to ensure fair and fair law, and based on the law and the Constitution, a legally executed election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, we must only say a small one of the dipressions in relation to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We fully support the argument that the Government of the Republic of Croatia states in the light of its opinion why it does not support the Bill's proposal and I quote what it says: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the newling of electoral legislation is not directed or justified before the elections are held, and it is necessary to tend to adopt, establish electoral institutions, and in particular to establish their application." And we agree with that, but unfortunately, this time is an emergency because of the need to comply with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision to make an amendment to the law. And in such a situation despite this argument that the Government has indicated in its opinion, and we propose to the Parliament to discuss this Law and to accept it. Or if it does not accept it again for politically motivated reasons, then we suggest that the ruling party accept the conclusion that it will commit itself, that is, our Government of the Republic of Croatia, to prepare amendments and additions to the parent, or the relevant Law for the fall, to ensure the legal conduct of elections in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18735	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18736	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at its 17th session, I will first say about the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia, upon termination of its duties, supported the proposal to adopt the law by an urgent procedure. Seven votes in, two votes against. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes, 8 for, 1 vote against, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. As regards the Law on the financing of electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the law in the debate supported the motion for the motion to pass the law by an urgent procedure with 7 votes in favour and 2 votes against. In the debate, the Committee raised its comments on the text of the final law and established its amendments, and following a debate with the majority of votes 6 for and 3 abstentions, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law with the amendments that we have explained in this opinion. The amendments refer to Article 2 where we are actually regulating this issue with an international practice where actually foreign natural and legal persons are not allowed to participate in the financing of election promotion. Amendment number 3 is, in fact, explained and specified in Article 3. A government proposal that actually regulates which gifts are not to be received. Article 4 also clarifies that electoral promotion within the meaning of this law is not only considered a media promotion but also all the costs of candidates from election day to election day. The most important article is Article 6 which we have actually changed de facto the whole article. We propose to amend the Government's proposal where we ask that the issue of transparency and the public be properly addressed to the level and sources of funds used by each candidate for the election promotion. And under this third law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee concluded not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements with 6 votes to and 2 votes against but we expressed our opinion that the Government is considering the need for the necessary amendments and additions to the applicable Act to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and the applicable legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18737	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee, no. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. He's gone, he's lost his word. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18738	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates club supports the need for the adoption of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of our duties, we also support the need to settle the issue of campaign financing, we are very sorry that this bill covers only election promotion but we believe that there is no need in either case for an emergency procedure to be applied. In this first Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic upon termination of my duties, I am not present with a view to the urgent procedure of this Proposal for a simple reason, there is enough time for this question, so I need some more questions to be settled and some circumstances to be considered and to be taken into account before this matter can be regulated to the end. We also have very serious remarks of principle and individual nature regarding the proposed Law on the financing of electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law. So let me put them in order. The first observation that we have seems to be at first sight to be of a formal legal nature and, in fact, it includes the content of nature is actually the constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law. It cannot be the constitutional authority of the Parliament to adopt the laws referred to in Article 80(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution... for the adoption of this Law. For the adoption of this Act, it is not a constitutional basis, but the constitutional basis is, in fact, the general constitutional basis referred to in Article 2(4) of the first subparagraph of Article 1 which is otherwise authorised by the Parliament to legislate individual political, economic and other issues and Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes and contains in itself the provision that elections against the President of the Republic will be governed by a special law. And that little letter writes the law, so it can be by one law or by several laws the matter of the election of the President of the Republic. Of course, when we talk about this, we must say that, in our view, the reasons and arguments for the urgent procedure cited in this Law are not valid because it would be difficult to accept the situation that there are reasons here for the country's defence, for the development of the economy or for preventing the country's development or interest, because there is still a lot of time until the election of the President of the Republic is held and, moreover, there should be a different way to address these issues in a quality way. The other reasons are of course of content nature above all, and we must say in this respect that we believe in the SDP that it is not enough to pass a law which will only be regulated by part of the electoral process for the President of the Republic, nor is it at all good to regulate only one section of the elections in the Republic of Croatia related to election campaigns, but rather that a single law should be adopted to regulate the election campaign in all cases where elections are being held, and if we cannot go to such a law at this stage now, then, as between the phase, a law on the financing of the election campaign of the President of the Republic should be made. Another thing we need to point out is that if such a proposal were to be accepted, then the question and the name of the Law itself should be considered. We must, in particular, point out some more of the questions that itself stem from these facts. In fact, when viewing the content of the Law, he opened a whole series of questions but even more raised questions about unopened issues. For example, there are no open issues about editing, nor are they defined as donations, which are resources, which are state resources, limits, donations, minimum and maximum, as are the case for anonymous donations, and how reports on the funds spent are submitted, and sanctions for non-execution of this Act are filed. It is, of course, particularly interesting if such a proposed law were to be adopted by the promoters by the public, it would, in fact, remain short on the information on which the donors are and which is the amount of donations and which is the real purpose of all these laws. Therefore, if we are looking at this aspect then we do not have to point out our observations regarding, for example, Article 1 we believe that the law regulates the way to raise funds only for the financing of electoral promotion but also for the activities, not only for the collection of funding of election promotion but also for the activities considered an election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but not for the issues that define what donations are, which are state resources, then in particular extend it all to the entire election campaign and not just to the promotion. In Article 2, we need to define what is considered an election promotion by the campaign itself. It is necessary to determine the time when it starts and until it lasts and, of course, should prescribe the percentage of votes that candidates hold in the elections in order to exercise the right to compensation, the cost of election promotion from the state budget should be entered and to consider whether it should be entered into this law or whether it should remain in the electoral law as it is now prescribed that it is 10% of the votes. About Article 3 we believe that it is necessary to define what donations are, then see why donations are not, why... that they are only financial means and they are not but material rights, such as means of transport, technical equipment and other services, all except volunteer work, sympathisers, party colleagues, candidate presidents who will do so when volunteering, of course, if it is not professional work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thereafter, it is necessary to regulate the issue of anonymous donations, donations on behalf of third parties, and the amount of these donations, too, is lacking to regulate the amount of the limits of individual donors that he can donate, and of course is missing if that article remains the same ban on donors, to apply to other foundations and foundations but not to other non-profit organisations. What about religious, humanitarian organizations, etc. We have to say that the amendments to the Constitution Committee to a significant extent make our remarks easier and correct the situation with the proposed law but not until the end of what we believe we should get and regulate this law. Article 4. We believe that immediately in the beginning that we are fundamental conceptually different, in concept we are different, we do not think that the law should apply only to promotion because, according to us, the promotion is not the only activity of candidates in the campaign, and in addition, it is the Electoral Law that makes a difference when it makes a difference from the time when elections are called through the emphasis on the election, the implementation of the election campaign, the elections themselves, and the end of the situation after the elections have been held. For this reason, we believe that the Law should be extended to the entire election campaign and then extended and regulated to the use of funding and other goods and services at travel costs, work on the ground, functioning and... candidates as well as other payments of co-workers and services and need to regulate that, at that time, restrictions on candidates in the campaign, what they can do, what they cannot, in particular, limit the total resources that we need to spend in the election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic. In relation to Article 5, we believe that it is necessary to disappear and that it is necessary to define the resources of the state budget of units of local and regional self-government not to be used by officials. This could not only be financial resources, but must relate to material rights, from computers, phones, office materials, etc., jobs, services, transport, on the one hand. and, on the other hand, it is necessary to prohibit the use and work of the deputies themselves if it is a candidate who is already the President of the Republic. Now, it's important that we actually notice that it is necessary to install a few more articles. A number of articles must be incorporated which will be clearly spoken when the candidate who is the current President of the Republic performs as President of the Republic and which means can be used in the conduct of the duties of the President of the Republic is known, and when he performs as a candidate, which means necessary to protect the institution not only of the candidate, but the President of the Republic has the right to be boned exclusively in relation to all other candidates, which all the other State resources cannot benefit from. Of course, we also feel that it is necessary to extend Article 6 of the Report to the amounts of the funds of individual donors. We also believe that it should be extended to the cost of the election campaign in full, not just to the promotion. It should then be defined in Article 6 of the time-limits in which the time period is reported on elections and amounts. The reporting period cannot be completed before election day. Then we believe that the election and donations report should be delivered to the state electoral commission every 8 days and they must be public in full because it is of public interest. We need to prescribe and include a report on the funds spent in the campaign. and, of course, we believe that it is necessary to lay down sanctions for the violation of the provisions of this law and of the bodies implementing the elections in case they do not comply with the prescribed mandatory legal standards relating to an open account, collected funds, reporting, donations, elections of funds, ways of spending, whether anonymous donations have been collected, etc. We believe that everything should be prescribed and that it is... Article 6 does not prescribe. But there is another dimension of Article 6 which we would particularly like to point out about solutions offered, the truth of the will we repeat that the new Article 6 proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system does this significantly differently if this amendment is accepted and, in our opinion, it is much better, than the solution that is in the proposed text of the law, and in this respect we can support it, although we do not think that it fully resolves this issue, but just as a special side medicine a temporary medicine in, which should prevent further development of the disease. But our grudges aside from what I've said are those that have a serious political grudge and a political dimension. Namely, Article 6. I'll quote it. "in paragraph 1, the election report on the cost of election promotion must be submitted to the State Election Commission no later than 7 days before the election day which will assess the need to publish it." First, the fact is that the entire election promotion is not covered, let alone the entire election campaign, because 7 days before the elections are held, a report is practically to be submitted, and what about the funds that will be collected in those remaining 7 days and of course what is particularly from the aspect of their spending. Secondly, this is a very important collection of funds in order for the public to actually be informed about how candidates collect and collect funds from whom, because candidates, voters, must know and have the right and the ability to assess, whether to support that candidate who, for example, is funded by institutions from outside or that candidate relying on support within the country, or that candidate who may be relying on the support of natural and legal persons in the country and abroad, who can practically come into conflict of interest because he has promised certain services or counterproducts in such a situation. That is why we think it is not a good solution that the state commission will assess the need to publish them. We believe that if we want a transparent and public election campaign, and it should be, because it is an important element for the voter's decision-making actually to whom they will give confidence and their voice, that these reports must be published and that these reports must contain elections of funds, donors themselves and must contain a way of spending. The second item is even more dangerous to us. He says the State Election Commission will make public donations contrary to this law no later than 3 days before the day of the elections. Look, if that's the case, then we have a situation where the State Election Commission under the law discreetly assesses whether or not someone has raised a legal asset. At the same time, in the illegality of the elections and the constitutionality of the elections actually, the decision in the final line is taken by the Constitutional Court, not by the State Election Commission, which only at a certain stage of the administrative procedure actually makes such a decision. So, what can happen? There may be a very interesting situation, in order to be published by the State Election Commission on the basis of their assessment and their arguments that they have announced that some of the candidates have received illegally collected illegal funds. A formal legal fulfillment of the State Election Commission's task, but a major impact on the quality of the voter's opinion on whether or not to give that candidate confidence, imagine what kind of president it will be if he illegally raises funds to carry out an election campaign? This can have a significant impact on the final result of the election. And that, at the same time, the candidate for president cannot achieve the protection of the proper protection of his right. Why? Because when all the deadlines of the State Election Commission's conduct are respected and the decision of the Constitutional Court ends, then the deadline of these three days has already expired while the word follows, and in such a situation it may happen that the Constitutional Court's decision, which will, for example, determine not that it is illegal, but that it has quite legally collected those funds, remains nothing but a moral satisfaction, because it has effectively lost the elections. And such one power must not be given to, nor to the electoral commission, to enter, nor should one in particular doubt that the electoral commission will be malignancies to anyone. However, here you need to go from a point of view that the electoral commission should not be attacked so that, possibly because of its mistakes, it may be responsible for the final result of the election. And that the electoral commissions in giving their mandatory instructions, interpretations or decisions under the protection of the electoral right may be wrong, so we have witnessed these current election cycles that we have, where there have been cases where the electoral commission has given and taken the appropriate views according to the candidates' complaints in the protection of their rights, that, in fact, in front of the Constitutional Court, decisions should be quite different and often in favour of the candidates themselves, and in such a situation, such a provision should not be allowed. For all these reasons, we of the SDP suggest that despite these amendments proposed by the Committee, which amends this bill, to postpone the decision by emergency procedure, to conduct this as a public debate, the debate in the first reading, and to actually conclude that it is going to the second reading, and to hold a debate in the second reading within 9 months, and preferably then we have the Law on the financing of the entire election campaign, not just election promotions of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18739	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18740	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As far as this first law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia is concerned after the conduct of its duties has ceased, the HDZ Club will support this law, this law prescribes certain rights that the president has after the conduct of his duties. The law lays down specific and stated rights, and we believe that the President's office of equipment, protection, the vehicle should not be questionable, because the president simply has his place in the structure of the state government, in the Constitution and in particular, and in the obligations and powers, we believe that these rights are not something that we are exaggerating and this kind of duty I think is in charge of such rights after the president ceases to exercise that duty. I think we need to promote the importance and integrity of the institution of the president of the state. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law and, by adopting this law, we are filling the legal gap that existed in our legislation in relation to these rights. As far as this Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of presidents is concerned, it is a law governing rules on the financing of election promotion for the election of presidents. This law also fills the gaps in legislation because we do not have any rules here and therefore it is good to adopt this law because it regulates the way in which elections are financed. The proposal sent by the government certainly has good intentions, the aim is to regulate this area, but the text of the Government's proposal is burdened with certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies but which we consider relievable. Therefore, the HDZ Club considers that the Government should in any case consider the amendments submitted by the Constitutional Committee to this law, because they do significantly correct the text of the law. The HDZ Club advocates that the financing of the electoral promotion be transparent, that the cost, revenue data and the sources of revenue be made public so that the public knows exactly how someone's campaign was financed. We also advocate these restrictions on the financing of the election campaign, which means that neither foreigners nor religious organisations nor non-profit associations, state institutions, state-owned companies can actually be the source of financing someone's election campaign. We also advocate that, indeed, after the elections, the data is made public so that the public is informed and has seen a full report on who funded someone's campaign. The HDZ will support this law, which, together with the amendments of the Constitution Committee, in any case, I think also brings order in this segment, and certainly we believe that one of the very important issues in the development of democracy and multilaterals is precisely this financing of political parties and we believe that in the future this Parliament and this government will also have to adopt certain rules of conduct. As regards this third proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Democratic Community will not support this law because the solutions provided for in this law are partly embedded in this Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18741	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18742	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposal of the Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic, upon termination of the HNS Club's duties, the PGS Club will support this law, we believe, as a colleague has just said, that it ensures a level playing field, continuity in the work of the president, and after the conduct of a duty that will continue to communicate with many factors in the world, in us, etc., there is nothing disputed about that. This law is almost identical to the law in some of our neighbouring countries. Therefore, we have no doubt that it will work in us. But as far as the remaining two laws are concerned, given that time has moved away, I will take my exposure to only four short questions. The first question is whether it is necessary to adopt rules on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The answer on behalf of the PGS Club is certainly yes, we must bring it to us and it requires our public as well as democratic standards in Europe. The second question is whether the rules of the game should be regulated by a special law, as proposed by the Government or by a way to supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is a proposal from a fellow SDP. In the HNS Club of the PGS, we are convinced that the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia can properly and qualitatively regulate the way in which elections are funded or even better financed by the entire election campaign, as Mr Arlović said earlier, and here we agree with colleagues from the SDP. The third question is whether this law should also be passed by emergency procedure in July 2004 or whether the same law can be passed in September and October by regular procedure. If the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia as we believe it will be in February of next year then we could work on a regular procedure, give more time clearly to all of us NGOs and those who are interested in manifesting themselves and to help us make this law as high as possible. If, however, someone has different information regarding the term of holding the election for the president, then we understand the haste. The fourth question is what is the objective of this law. In the HNS Club of PGS, we would like to believe that the aim is to ensure a fair election race and full transparency of the financing of the elections. If so, we must decide between the two bids, the Government's offer to ensure transparency through a brief report of the National Election Commission in the National Journal several days before the elections themselves, or as co-workers from the SDP suggest, through a more extensive report by candidates on spent funds on sources of monetary and non-financial donations within eight days of the elections being held. If transparency is at stake, then the second proposal is probably ahead. If, through short reports before the election, it is intended to reach or send a specific message to the electoral body, then we will recognise the cunning of the second proposal, but also the danger of the proposal. In the HNS Club of the PGS, we will follow closely the course of this debate, possible acceptance of individual amendments by the proposings, and support a bill that will be more comprehensive, more correct, ensure greater transparency and a more correct electoral race. To be perfectly honest, we have no illusions that this law will deal with all the issues mentioned on our committees these days, in the media, in the reports of NGOs, but we will undoubtedly move our colleagues and colleagues in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18743	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18744	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, here we have a whole set of laws relating to the election of the president of the state, but I would look a little more closely at the proposal for a Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. If we keep in mind the goal that the law should achieve, then we must say that we have a very strange proposal, which is why it is very superficial, does not regulate key areas and where it is trying to regulate to a large extent is unclear. The aim of the law should be to ensure transparency of funding for the presidential candidate. The aim will not be achieved by this law, and the public's interest will continue to be compromised. The public interest is to know who it is and what amounts it has financed the future president of the state who will represent the state on behalf of the citizens in the next term. Under this law, citizens will still not know this because it is proposed to regulate only the issues of how to raise funds for the financing of electoral promotion and the activities considered to be election promotion rather than election campaigns as a whole. Article 2 of the Law states that election promotion is financed from own resources and donations from domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, however, the law does not define the concept of donations. Donations can be different. They can be in money, things, services, rights, etc. For full transparency, a clear definition of the donation as well as the determination of the maximum amount of the donation is necessary. In our opinion, the Law also needs to determine the time considered an election campaign. The law stipulates which donations are not to be received, so it says no donations from foreign states and foreign political parties are to be received with which we fully agree. Neither public undertakings, legal persons with public authority and state-owned enterprises are to be accepted, with which we also agree. However, donations shall not be received from associations, foundations and foundations whose members are members of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government bodies and other legal entities with public authority. We wonder how in practice this regulation is enforceable. The assumption of enforceability is the possibility of control and control is not possible because there is no single register of membership of the implementation associations of foundations and foundations. By accepting this provision, we would get another regulation that would be a dead letter on paper. I remind you that we already have laws that prohibit certain appointments of persons who are members of political parties and yet are regularly appointed party members, and only because it is the only relevant evidence of party membership of the candidate himself that he is not a member of any party. The Pharisee's law doesn't need it, it doesn't belong there, and that's why we throw it out not only of this but also of all the laws. So it seems indisputable that this law must ensure transparency of funding. The Proposer obviously believes that this transparency is provided by Article 6 which states that election reports for election costs must be submitted to the State Electoral Commission no later than 7 days before the election day, which will therefore assess the need to publish them. Then, the state electoral commission will make public donations contrary to the law no later than three days before the day of the elections. This article does not guarantee transparency for at least two reasons. First, the reports contain only sources of funding but not the names and last names of individual donors and the amount and type of donation. Secondly, the report shall contain data no later than 7 days before the date of the election. What about the sources and amounts that appear in the last seven days? These donations may be more than previously received and they do not even have to apply. What about the donations after the election? They don't have to apply either. Third, there is no obligation to publish these missing data, but the State Election Commission will assess the need for publication. Is that transparency? Is it the realisation of the right of citizens to know who he is and how he financed the election promotion of representative candidates? In particular, paragraph 2 is unacceptable, which says that the state electoral commission will make public donations contrary to the law no later than three days before the elections. It is a source of uncertainty and is also very suitable for manipulations and abuses that can have a crucial impact on election results. The state electoral commission is not infallible and its decision is not irrefutable. This is also evidenced by the practice and would be too dangerous to allow the State Election Commission to announce three days before the election the content of its decision on the counter-legislative nature of the donation which, in the follow-up procedure, may prove unfounded, incorrect, inexplicable, etc. For the candidate who lost the election repairs because of the announcement, there is no one. By not being allowed and simply amazing that such a proposal was found in a law addressed to the emergency procedure. Speaking of urgency, I must say that there is no single reason for the adoption of neither this Act nor the Law on the Rights of the President nor this proposal on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the third proposal that we have received. In this regard, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in Article 159 states: "Extremely, the law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons, i.e. where necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy.". So there is no reason, and this is the ridiculous explanation of the proposings, and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it says: "The need for a precise definition of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia has been assessed as sufficient reason for the urgency of the procedure." It is regrettable, though I am a member of the Committee that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the Parliament itself has accepted his imposed opinion of the Government and the Parliament itself is acting against the Rules of Procedure at this time. As it is apparent the remarks are many and they are well-founded. It would be wise to discuss this issue in detail and pass a law that we won't be ashamed of. We have experience with the Law of Conflict of Interest that was brought into the atmosphere of pre-election passion, not reason. Today, it is increasingly said that it is a conceptual failure, and therefore let us not slave with passions, let us put the ball on the ground, let us think carefully to find the best solutions and then pass the Law in a regular procedure. Such a bill as the proposed Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot support. Although he believes the Law on the financing of the election campaign is absolutely necessary. As regards the remaining two draft laws, regarding the right of the President of the Republic of Croatia, as I have explained, we oppose the adoption of an emergency procedure because it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure if we do not keep the integrity of this Assembly alone, there is no one in the state of Croatia who will protect our digntet and therefore we stick to what we ourselves have prescribed. All these shortcomings that I have listed, as well as the harmonisation of and the positive legal regulations, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the constitutional decision as far as I know, contain a proposal on the selection of the president of the Republic of Croatia, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the SDP Representatives' Club. It contains a more detailed and transparent arrangement, campaign financing arrangements, election campaigns by the president of the Republic of Croatia. And now that we are in three, with three proposals of which two are complemented, one in a more detailed, clearer and more transparent manner and guarantees, thank you fellow to the irony and guarantees transparency of this bill we will support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18745	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Same case as the last one. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Same case as the last two. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18746	Dear President of the House, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, this Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic. Well, there's no doubt the law is necessary. It remains unclear why such a haste? Why emergency procedure? The president's term of office is ongoing. It is certain that it will continue until the end of the mandate, January, February, and why now, on the last day of work before the constitutional break, suffer such a law. And it's an emergency procedure. And the promoter has no logical explanation for it, and as we heard exactly from Mrs. Lalić is not even a businessman. It's breaking the Rules of Procedure. We ourselves violate the Rules of Procedure by accepting this urgency. This can go peacefully in two readings to see if these are the rights listed here, would they be more detailed? I just think you would. You know it's good to pass this law, but I think some solutions should be better. The Americans say, "Once a president, always a president." They're holding up their former presidents. We could see that now after President Reagan died. Croatia I also think should stick to the institutions of its President of the Republic. That's where he's supposed to have two clerks. Well, look, it's two secretaries. They must have some work hours, 8 hours of civil service. I guess one of them'll be working first thing in the afternoon. If one of them gets the flu this guy has no one to cooperate with, there's no one to pick up the phone. I mean, we could have written it down to five, that's five clerks. We can discuss it, but it would be better to discuss it in, in two readings. In the event of the death of the President of the Republic, and this is a special law on rights after the term of office. So in the event of death, which is in case he never dies. So after he's dead, he has some right after death. All illogical one expression. And then you've got an ex-president before, and now you're talking about the death of the President of the Republic, so it's unclear who he's referring to. What, for example, about military honors? The President of the Republic is commander-in-chief. As former President of the Republic of the former military commander, he has the right to military honor. Look at the other laws when it comes to the rights of soldiers, that's what they say. So they have the right to some military honors. There's no need for us not to work it out in the law when we're already bringing it in. And it's in this one because we don't have anyone else to work on. And why it wasn't done and why he's in a hurry now is completely unclear. When it comes to this second law and it's financing election promotion, the thing is even worse. There's an impression, so I have the impression that it's written in the Ministry for one afternoon left hand on speed and again unclear why by emergency procedure... It's good luck. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This way sending it to the Parliament is almost offensive to the Parliament. It's rude in one way. First of all, that's not where the concepts are defined. The Committee on the Constitution had the need to correct it with amendments and I must say quite successfully it tried very skillfully, and not to make it all right with the amendments. It's supposed to be all over again to get some kind of head and, uh, tail. And despite the commendable efforts of the Constitutional Committee, something will be improved but not everything will succeed. First of all, it's unclear what's being financed? Election promotion. What does the word election promotion or campaign mean? This should be defined, first of all, to define the concepts. From what time it lasts, from election call to election day. But you have it all in the SDP bill that I don't know why you didn't at least copy it. Well, look at the mass of other cases you prescribed opposition proposals where you didn't have any good ideas. But that's not where you made it. Well, I wish you'd done it, and you didn't send an unfinished solution like this. Watch out for what is being done in article 1. Election promotions and activities considered an election promotion. And who thinks so? Who does? Article 2, watch out: “The election promotion is funded by its own resources and donations by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons.” The parties will finance the election campaign of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Legal and physical. Well, look, this is offensive to the state that you wrote. Well, you could've written more, and you're calling foreign intelligence to get them to choose a candidate to finance it. Well, a stranger can't be allowed to finance an election campaign. Well, this is, this is, this is a shame. This is really outrageous. Then what amount? It says nicely in the SDP proposal up to 7 million kuna. Well, you could have written 6, you could have written 14, anyway. But you didn't predict the amount at all. Well, the president, the candidate for President of the Republic, can't raise donations worth 300 million kuna. And tell me that's how long it takes for the campaign. And you send it to the Parliament without even writing a note. Then Article 3. Now “no donations from foreign states and foreign political parties must be received”, and individuals can also be made by foreign companies. There's a lot of parties that can't be allowed by the states, I guess the governments can't. Then you lack what the SDP has in its proposal, which is the whole point 4. These are domestic entrepreneurs and legal entities operating with state authorities in order to acquire profits. That's unusually important. And why did you miss it? I'd like the Ministry's representative to tell me if it was deliberately dropped, if it counts for someone to finance someone's election campaign or if you missed it because you were working fast. Article 4: “For the organisation of promotional events”. What is a promotional event? What is a promotional event? Is that a pre-election rally? Is this a tour of the entire country? So watch out for the presidential candidate has to visit the entire country. And it's a campaign and that's what it costs among other things. He's got to sleep somewhere. He's got to stay somewhere. E, and personally see Article 6. I have the impression that this was written to accommodate one of the presidential candidates, and that's why it's going into an emergency procedure, and that's why it's written like this. Because look at what the article 6 provides. The report on these costs must be submitted to the State Electoral Commission no later than 7 days before the elections are held, which will then assess the need to publish them. And then three days before the election is held at the top of the campaign, when voters actually decide that election commission will announce publicly that a presidential candidate has been collecting donations contrary to this law. And by doing so, the electoral commission will clearly eliminate the presidential candidate from the next race. It will decide the result of the election. If you had that in mind, don't throw it away because you're not funny and you're bothering me. Please don't throw away Mrs. Babic-Petrichevic. And Mr. President-in-Office, warn the representative not to interfere with my exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18747	I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18748	Yeah, he hears. And he doesn't hear, you don't hear well?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18749	I'm tired. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18750	You don't hear well? Look if you keep that in mind don't think this is going to run out of echoes in public. If you had in mind disqualifying a presidential candidate, the public will read it. That's what the press will write you. And if you didn't have that in mind, pull the emergency procedure. Let's discuss this in two readings. Let us discuss this and the institutions of civil society. Let's get to the solution, so they're normal. Don't do this because this scandal, this is a scandal for both the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic, and for the government that sent this to the entire country. Something like that could happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18751	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18752	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I chose to discuss this subject personally, for the simple reason that I wanted to make some amendments. And to one amendment to the adjudicated SDP repatriate club, because I do not believe that the issue of the right of the candidate of the President of the Republic is sufficiently resolved so that it can object to the electoral commission and I therefore propose that in Article 47 of the applicable law behind the word: as well as a candidate for the President of the Republic who is satisfied with such a decision to delete them. This could practically enable such a situation. And I propose that a new article 15 be added to Article 14 of the current 15th to become 15th in the SDP's proposed club. However, I must say that I did not propose a coelga or the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the law on the financing of the electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia I made a whole set of amendments. And this amendment, which not only relates to the proposed text of the law, but also to amendments that go and go beyond the proposed text, respecting the rule that in the Emergency Procedure Act it is distributed in law and other readings and that it actually opens up the possibility of an amendment trying to recover throughout this matter. I must say that I have worked on these amendments together with associations that follow the elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia and not only for the president of the Republic of Croatia, but for the election campaign in the Republic of Croatia. And in this regard, in particular, I point out to gong both in accordance with both theirs and my free stand and the club's position, I believe that a law should be passed that regulates an election campaign rather than an election promotion. And that is why I propose an amendment first to the title of the law so that the title of the law is changed and that it is the final draft law on the financing of an election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that Article 1 should quite differently regulate the issue of what this law regulates, and therefore I propose that the text reads, this law regulates the definition of the election campaign, the campaign orator, the kind of gifts of fundraising for the election campaign, the activities considered an election campaign for the presidential elections in the Republic and so on. In the article behind Article 1, I think it is necessary to add Article 1a, which would define the time of the start of the election campaign, and what makes the election campaign, and in this respect I also propose one amendment. Article 1b is replaced by the following: which would arrange an election campaign which could also be organised by, of course, the legality of carrying out an election campaign. I also believe that an amendment should be put on the article to change it. And that it clearly defines what an election campaign is doing, which is financed from the funds and which means can be used by natural and legal persons. Furthermore, Article 2a should be added to Article 2a which would actually be regulated by the campaign organiser, who must practically osgiuate to open a special account for the implementation of the election campaign. And, of course, the common obligation that candidates or organisers of the election campaign are obliged to pay the funds to that account within 72 hours of their arrival. Article 2b is replaced by the following: which would arrange the kinds of donations. And in this way actually remove them all doubts about what is considered donations, donations. What with financial resources, what with material goods, rights and so on. And, of course, the services that es can collect and which are secured by the collection. Article 3 would require more precise arrangements to cover the election costs of the electoral promotion because donations are not to be received. Now different legal entities, and now that I believe that it can be exceptionally allowed in smaller quantities of donations and natural and legal persons and foreign states, but that these donations, as well as anonymous donations, should not exceed 5% of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia because such donations, if they appeared, would eventually have the opportunity to fit. Of course, Article 4 should, in particular, address the issue of funding not promotional but electoral campaigns. And Article 5 should be completely edited in a different way. Thus, candidates for the presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia should not use the funds of the state budget during the election campaign, i.e. when they can use the funds from the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. Article 6 should be completed quite differently. And after that, add Article 6a, which grumbles about early and final reports. In particular, Article 6b should be added, which actually deems permanent sanctions for non-compliance with the law on the issue of financing an election campaign or collecting donations. And it's from the funds collected to the ones that are collected that are recorded. So by means of what is done with the funds that are actually collected and which should not be used by law for the election campaign, the proposal is in a special article to make such funds a state budget. Or I can come back if you can even recognize their donor. Here, these are the amendments that practically cover a whole series, and I am aware that there is a constant danger that these amendments will not be adopted. Alil is also very well aware that these adms will remain recorded in the phonogram and file, respectively, documentation of the Croatian Parliament. And that it will be very, very important to see already in these elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia and after who has proposed anything about the transparency of the election of the President of the Republic and the election of the President of the Republic. I think that's very important, and that if we're looking for a question like this, we shouldn't allow ourselves not to solve this issue until the end, but to solve it in part. The more this issue can have, the more political connotation, and even on the international agenda, because we must not forget that we are still on the monitor's council of Europe and the OSCE that are following the elections, and in particular the legislative regulation of the election of all and the President of the Republic, and that we will take care when we have already agreed to adopt this Law, we have given the whole and the right way to regulate this issue because we must not forget that, among other things, we have had an average score of 3.25 to conduct the elections by the OSCE. And international communities. Among other things, because we don't have the law on financing election campaigns in the Republic of Croatia. Now, if I bring him in then it is time to bring him in whole and in a quality way and to avoid any possible traps that may arise because of a partial or inappropriate way of regulating this issue and if we are not already at this extraordinary session in an emergency procedure, I believe that we will soon reach out to the Croatian Parliament documentation and reach out to these solutions - we will probably find it easier through the new law all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18753	Thank you very much. Where are your amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18754	There are amendments I can give you Mr. President because they're also given in procedure. But the days would be a dilemma the amendments are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18755	Yeah. That's it. Otherwise, it's not a campaign. It's a campaign. There's a sugar tail campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18756	...on a little bit of an emphasis that you're using in this case is quite correct. But when they are used West-Srijem or East-Srijemic in Croatia, then it is in the campaign, it is so in my County unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18757	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18758	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I won't take more than a minute. Staying entirely in the name of the SDP club, I apologize to the Honorable colleague Arlovic and Mrs Ljubica Ladic on behalf of HSS. In the name of responsibility for the laws that we bring in this honorable House, and whether I may influence them or not, I want it to remain recorded that I have warned that all the dangers contained in Article 6 that the Government has proposed and that it may have, if it remains this, direct influence and error, accidentally on the results of the elections and the minimum for the adoption of this law if we already adopt it by an urgent procedure, it is up to me to adopt an amendment to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Amendment of their number 4 to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18759	Thank you very much. State Secretary Antun Palarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18760	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be brief to finish the job sooner. I thank you for your support for the Law on Special Rights of the Presidents of the Republic and I think it is good for this law to be passed and to fill that gap in the Croatian legal system. I thank you for the discussions on the Law on the financing of election promotion. The government is still intent on resolving this issue on time before the start of the electoral promotion because today it has not been resolved. Obviously, the government had more confidence in the State Election Commission than anyone else has, but we will consider these amendments to the Constitution Committee very carefully tomorrow at the government meeting in Gospić and probably also accept it so that if the dominant debate goes in the direction that this is a better solution, we will not insist on our part of the law in that part and in that part that is being corrected without a technical solution. Thank you very much. We stay with the proposal to pass this law along with the amendments that we will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18761	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate in the final draft of the law... I'm sorry, you're right. Dear Representative, Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18762	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to thank all the participants of tonight's debate of this law, in particular their presence, and especially those who participated in the debate. In particular, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Palaric, who indicated that all amendments submitted because he said amendments submitted to the Law on the financing of election promotion by the President of the Republic of Croatia would be discussed and if they are good enough to be accepted. It is therefore quite certain that a large number of my amendments will then be accepted because they are heading towards improving this law and resolving these issues. But not to discuss further what the government will eventually do is its constitutional and commercial and legal right to decide differently than is said here. Thank you again very much. I hope that this debate is not only about this law, about this proposal that was here, but about this problem that we are going to solve in this way, perhaps now, and maybe tomorrow this debate will be a good basis for us to address this issue in quality and complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18763	Thank you very much. I was left to conclude the debate in the final proposal of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic upon termination of office, the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would tomorrow continue with the remaining remaining item of the agenda, which is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98, where the same procedure of emergency procedure was adopted. The amendment to, those who are in accordance with the law and Rules of Procedure in the rebalancing of the budget and the Budget Law has 110 on the budget, several on this Law on the implementation of the budget, to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education around 60 amendments, to the Law on Road Safety around 80. A little less, much less about amending the law and supplementing violations, a dozen of amendments and additions to the Penal Code. If all these calculations could be done by midnight, then after midnight, which opens up another problem, then an extraordinary session. Tomorrow, therefore, this debate, which starts at half past ten, would be good for the Parliament to do it rationally, so that we may be in a position and the possibility that perhaps even earlier than the announced vote, at 6:00, the vote will begin, but that will depend on the development of the event. Thank you very much. We'll continue at half past ten. Good night. 2. Final proposal of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 138 - PUBLICATION The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like Secretary of State Antun Palaric to be made aware of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18765	We accept both amendments and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18766	Thank you. They become an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find that, unanimously with 96 votes, the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia was passed following the termination of its duties in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Now we only have three points left for which I suggest they join one with the clubs for 20 minutes, or who's speaking on behalf of the clubs. - Final draft law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of office, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 138. - Final draft law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading. P.Z. No. 139; - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 119; There is a proposal for a SDP representative club and these two previous are the Government. The promoter of these two is the Government, the debate was conducted in all three draft laws of the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution and the political system. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. I would first of all ask State Secretary Antun Palaric to further explain these two proposals to the government's laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18768	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the council. We are ahead of us with presidential elections, so the government wants to settle with these two draft laws all of those open issues concerning both the financing of the electoral campaign and the rights of the President of the Republic at the end of office, so they also concern those who will be presidential candidates. The Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic, upon termination of our duties, proposes to further strengthen the integrity of the functions of the President of the Republic by creating material and technical assumptions that the President of the Republic may continue with the activities that are appropriate to the former President of the Republic. We suggest that the government provide the former president with physical protection and personal driver and personal official vehicle. We also want it to be prescribed that the President of the Republic is made available at the end of his duty to the office room suitable for the conduct of his activities that he will have at the end of his duties. Two civil servants who will assist the president in his work will also be provided with a burden on the state budget. We suggest that salaries for officials and energy costs, equipment, furniture fall on the burden of the state budget. This right of the former president of the Republic could benefit while he considers it necessary in the government's view it may be permanent but according to the president's opinion it will last as long as he wishes. And we also want to solve a possible open question, and this in the event of the death of the President of the Republic of Croatia, that funeral costs fall on the burden of the Republic of Croatia. The final draft law on the financing of electoral promotion wanted to introduce order in the way of obtaining funds for election promotion. We wanted to define what these funds could be spent on, as well as to attribute certain sanctions if the promotion funds were supplied contrary to the provisions of this Act. Our basic principle that the candidate for President of the Republic can finance his promotion from his own resources and from donations of domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. Of course, after the election results have been announced, the presidential candidate who carries out the legally prescribed majority of votes, which is according to the current 10% vote law, will receive a fee from the state budget for part of the cost of the election pre-demand. And according to the decision on the amount of electoral promotion to be settled from the state budget that the government has made 30 days before the election day. We want to remove the possibility and abuse of positions by this law and also remove the possibility that the elected president will come into conflict with the dependence on the people who made the donation, so we suggest that donations from foreign states and foreign political parties be banned. Of public companies, legal persons with public authority and companies in the majority ownership of the auction. These other legal persons in which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional self-government or regional self-government have majority ownership over shareholders and shares. These public and other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia and units of local or regional self-government. further, we want to prohibit receiving donations from Synicates and employers' associations. We also want to prohibit receiving donations from trust and foundation associations, whose members are members of state authorities. Or our intention was to eliminate the possibility for the heads of state to manipulate the funds of the associations and finance the campaign against this bill We prohibit and propose that the financing of presidential promotions from the budget of the units of local self-government and the budget of the regional co-government units be prohibited. From the assets of companies owned and co-owned by units of local and regional self-government. This institution which is the founder of states or units of local or regional self-government. The means of electoral promotion could be used to organise promotional events, distribution of promotional materials, production of radio and television videos, and other things commonly considered an election promotion. It is possible that the candidate for President of the Republic will be the current state official. Which benefits from the regular implementation of its activities to fund the state budget, and therefore we want to exclude it by this law, unless in the case of a person protected by a special regulation, he or she has a obligation or a right to physical protection. And he could use what special regulation allows him to use in his promotional travel activities, by coming to various gatherings. Because this regulation is not only a right but also an obligation to protect a national official of a given category. The government has therefore gone from full confidence in the state election commission to overrun the procurement control mechanisms, in such a way as to give great authority to the State Election Commission that it can publish donations that are not in line with this Act. However, in discussions on the Committees, particularly on the Committee on the Constitution of the Rules of Procedure and the political system, this provision has proved to be controversial, therefore it has been sent here to the Government of the Amendment Committee and I trust you and the Government in principle to accept the weight of the part in the content of that amendment. Therefore, I would not like the debate to be burdened with such a proposed solution. Already as one whole text in line with the amendments of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. In order to address these open issues in time before the official launch of the election promotion, we propose that these laws be adopted by emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18769	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the honourable representative, Vice-President of the House, Matu Arlovic, to explain the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the election of the President of the Republic, the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18770	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP representative club has been motivated for several reasons to prepare the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic. Of course, one that can be pragmatic is that it is nearing the end of the current term to the current elected President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Stjepan Mesic, and that soon it is expected, and certainly somewhere at the end or early next year, to call the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia again. We believe that issues about elections, rights, obligations and responsibilities should be regulated both by candidates, both parties and all other participants in the election in time so that there should be no and should not be any appropriate irregularities, questions and problems in the framework of the election campaign, or rather, we feel that it is necessary to ensure that the electoral system is familiar, stable and in this respect to ensure fair, fair and legal election promotion, campaign, or overall elections that must enable all candidates to have an equal position, i.e. equality with the law. The second reason that it motivated us is because of this we have just proposed, I will start with this, believing that if the majority party, in principle, has more hands in Parliament, determined not to accept our bill that it will initiate and motivate the majority party, or the government to prepare the necessary amendment and addition of the law. Why? For this reason, another reason that motivated us to approach the amendment of this law, which is, above all, necessary to bring the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia into line with the new draft Constitution, i.e. the amended Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, notably with the decision of the Constitutional Court of 11 May 2004 and, of course, the decision of the 2002 Constitutional Court. You see the third reason is the need to align this law with the legal system in relation to laws within the legal system that are sometimes reported as jus generalis or as jus specialis, i.e. as lex specialis. It is therefore necessary to see and for these reasons to bear in mind and to approach the actual arrangement of this amendment and addition. Of course, the fourth reason is materially legal. We felt and felt that it was really necessary to introduce in our electoral system another law, a law on the financing of election campaigns that would regulate the issue of election campaigns of all representatives, i.e. all participants in the elections from local representatives to local, representative bodies of local and regional self-government units until elections for the Croatian Parliament and for the President of the Republic. But until this single law was passed, we felt that it was necessary for the sake of transparency, for the public's insight into the financing of the election campaign only to implement the election campaign, to spend the funds and relations between the candidates, to practically regulate this issue both with the President of the Republic, and in this way we suggested that amendments and additions should be extended, practically complemented by this law and with these issues, and that, of course, as we can see it has already been initiated in some way by the Government to propose its own special law, not by a special chapter, or by a special couple of articles, to settle this issue, so let's go in order. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is prescribed that, within 60 days, elections must be held in cases where cases set out in the Constitution referred to in Article 96(3) occur and that is where, because of the permanent prevention or the God of the death of the President of the Republic, the second president shall be replaced, then, within 60 days, the conditions for holding elections must be maintained or must be established. We in the current Law on Elections for the President of the Republic have, in fact, the situation that this was similarly arranged, but this was referred to in Article 97(1). The Constitution, therefore, is quite different from what is now in the Constitution after the amendments to the Constitution and therefore the issue should be settled. The second issue related to compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court is the fact that the Constitutional Court has found, among other things, that Articles 44(1) and (2) and 47(1) are unconstitutional and that it is practically necessary to open the space for the President to be able to participate and submit objections to the protection of his rights in relation to the State Election Commission, which has not been explicitly stated under the law, and of course, when it comes to Article 44(1), it is necessary to provide practically all political parties and all other parties who control and these 100 voters with the ability to exercise practical control and to submit objections to the election of the President of the Republic. The third reason for compliance with the laws adopted in the meantime is the fact that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Origin and under that law has been abolished for the purposes of reconciling that matter with the constitutional matter on the protection of personal data which the Constitution explicitly prescribes and prescribes when and in what way personal data can be used, and that is explicitly when it prescribes the law on the one hand and allows, on the other hand, when it has the consent of one whose data is collected and, of course, in cases where it is approved by the Ministry of Interior, it is for the purposes of special protection of the special interest of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, we believe that in this part we should have resolved the issues that are related and as a legal void, which is, among other things, the issue in fact in the collection of gifts, i.e. donations and other means for implementing not only electoral promotion but practically election campaign presidential candidates, and therefore we propose in our proposal the law first to elect, that giving gifts to the candidate should be prohibited by the authorities of state authorities, bodies of units of local and regional self-government and other legal persons with public authority. It is then necessary to prohibit this from public companies, i.e. companies and other legal entities in which the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional regional self-government have majority ownership over shares, i.e. shares and public and other institutions owned by the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional self-government. Furthermore, it could not be done by associations of citizens and trusts whose members are members of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, units of local and regional regional self-government and other legal entities with public authority. Furthermore, we do not believe that gifts should be allowed to be given to candidates by domestic entrepreneurs and legal entities operating with the authorities of the Republic of Croatia in order to obtain profits, i.e. in the last two calendar years, which have received support from the state, local self-government units and areas of regional self-government or other legal persons with public authority who received money from funds in which the state or units of local and regional self-government transferred money from their budget and those who lost their business in the previous year. We also believe that this should be prohibited by the authorities of the state authorities of foreign states and public undertakings, i.e. companies and other legal entities in which foreign states, or units of their local and regional self-government, have majority ownership over shares, i.e. shares and public undertakings owned by foreign governments or owned by units of local self-government as well as foreign nationals themselves. We also think it is very important that the voters of the Republic of Croatia have the possibility of public control in fact the election campaign that takes place and that from the point of view of the collection, so from the point of view of spending money. And finally, fair relations in the election campaign itself. We therefore propose that the candidate for President, the Republic, is required within 8 days of the elections being held, to submit a report to the Electoral Commission on the funds spent on the selection of the promotion. Then the report must contain information on the selection of funds, and in the case of cash or non-money gifts received, data on the donor, monetary value of the gift, etc. We also consider and prescribe, we propose to prescribe that the State Election Commission will publish this information in the National Journal as a summary report with sources of funds, on the funds spent for the election promotion of the President of the Republic. In addition to these issues that we covered, of course, that we covered a very specific issue, which is participation in the financing of election campaign of presidential candidates from the Croatian budget, i.e. units of local self-government. And we think, first of all, that election campaigns need, to spend resources on candidates in some way to limit the instructive norm. And we propose to limit it to 7 million kuna, some believe it is a little too much, some that it is too little, but in any case all are to limit such spending in the election campaign and given the opportunities in which the Republic of Croatia, its citizens, etc. And on the third hand, the fact is it's not small money for an election campaign. Therefore, we believe that it should be limited to 7 million, but we also believe that it is necessary in a certain way to ensure proper sanctions if the candidates do not comply with this restriction. In such a situation, we believe that those candidates who do not adhere to restrictions could not participate in the division of funds allocated from the state budget to assist candidates in the election campaign because of their own wasteful behaviour in the election campaign itself. We also believe that there is another way to regulate participation in the division of funds. So far, it is legal to see that every candidate who has crossed at least 10% of the electoral threshold, so he would have had to have the opportunity to participate in those funds and receive compensation for those funds and they were generally shared with those candidates equally. We believe it is not correct to give the same than to apply the electoral criterion. Because each candidate, depending on how much he won the fallen votes, should actually enable him to participate in the funding of the state budget that is being financed and thus, practically stimulated by the one who received the most, which is ultimately given to citizens and voters the highest degree of trust. We support the firm idea that appeared in our political and democratic practice from different institutions and the institution of justice that it is necessary to adopt in Croatia as soon as possible a law on a permanent electoral commission that would be permanent, professional and that would, in an appropriate way, actually follow and conduct all elections. But we also believe that until a new law on permanent election committees is passed that it cannot be left to guess who is president of the electoral commission in the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why we suggest that it be until such a law is passed, the President of the Supreme Court. Furthermore, we propose to align this law with the whole, with the terminology that is necessary and not only for nomotechnical but also for substantive reasons, and it is related to the amendments and additions to the Law on Government, the Law establishing the Ministry, administrative and other organisations. Then it is related to harmonising with the Law on Croatian Television and the Law on Elections that they have accepted, and they have stated that we do not have an electoral commission of the Republic of Croatia, but the State Election Commission, so to speak, etc., etc. And therefore for nomotechnical reasons. From all these situations, we conclude very simply. The fact is that some of the provisions we have proposed in the amendments and additions to this Act are now covered by the proposal for a law on the financing of election promotions by the President of the Republic of Croatia. But it is also a fact that some important provisions that are not large are not covered, and it is necessary to make them in order to comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court's decision. And in this respect, we are fully aware that, given the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there is a certain danger that, in fact, after the debate, no decision on acceptance will be taken but the most likely decision on non-acceptation will be taken because the Government does not support this Amendment and Supplements Act on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. But at the same time, we feel that it is necessary to be fully aware of the real situation in which we are for formal and content reasons. And in this respect, we, as a club, will be pleased if this leads to a new amendment and addition of the bill that will come from the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the majority party's club in the 9th month. Because it is necessary to make these amendments in order to ensure fair and fair law, and based on the law and the Constitution, a legally executed election for the President of the Republic of Croatia. In this regard, we must only say a small one of the dipressions in relation to the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We fully support the argument that the Government of the Republic of Croatia states in the light of its opinion why it does not support the Bill's proposal and I quote what it says: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that the newling of electoral legislation is not directed or justified before the elections are held, and it is necessary to tend to adopt, establish electoral institutions, and in particular to establish their application." And we agree with that, but unfortunately, this time is an emergency because of the need to comply with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision to make an amendment to the law. And in such a situation despite this argument that the Government has indicated in its opinion, and we propose to the Parliament to discuss this Law and to accept it. Or if it does not accept it again for politically motivated reasons, then we suggest that the ruling party accept the conclusion that it will commit itself, that is, our Government of the Republic of Croatia, to prepare amendments and additions to the parent, or the relevant Law for the fall, to ensure the legal conduct of elections in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18771	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18772	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament at its 17th session, I will first say about the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia, upon termination of its duties, supported the proposal to adopt the law by an urgent procedure. Seven votes in, two votes against. After the debate, the Committee proposed by a majority of votes, 8 for, 1 vote against, to the Croatian Parliament to pass the proposed law. As regards the Law on the financing of electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the law in the debate supported the motion for the motion to pass the law by an urgent procedure with 7 votes in favour and 2 votes against. In the debate, the Committee raised its comments on the text of the final law and established its amendments, and following a debate with the majority of votes 6 for and 3 abstentions, proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the law with the amendments that we have explained in this opinion. The amendments refer to Article 2 where we are actually regulating this issue with an international practice where actually foreign natural and legal persons are not allowed to participate in the financing of election promotion. Amendment number 3 is, in fact, explained and specified in Article 3. A government proposal that actually regulates which gifts are not to be received. Article 4 also clarifies that electoral promotion within the meaning of this law is not only considered a media promotion but also all the costs of candidates from election day to election day. The most important article is Article 6 which we have actually changed de facto the whole article. We propose to amend the Government's proposal where we ask that the issue of transparency and the public be properly addressed to the level and sources of funds used by each candidate for the election promotion. And under this third law, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee concluded not to accept the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements with 6 votes to and 2 votes against but we expressed our opinion that the Government is considering the need for the necessary amendments and additions to the applicable Act to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision and the applicable legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18773	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee, no. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Damir Cain on behalf of the IDS Club. He's gone, he's lost his word. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18774	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The SDP advocates club supports the need for the adoption of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia upon termination of our duties, we also support the need to settle the issue of campaign financing, we are very sorry that this bill covers only election promotion but we believe that there is no need in either case for an emergency procedure to be applied. In this first Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic upon termination of my duties, I am not present with a view to the urgent procedure of this Proposal for a simple reason, there is enough time for this question, so I need some more questions to be settled and some circumstances to be considered and to be taken into account before this matter can be regulated to the end. We also have very serious remarks of principle and individual nature regarding the proposed Law on the financing of electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal of the Law. So let me put them in order. The first observation that we have seems to be at first sight to be of a formal legal nature and, in fact, it includes the content of nature is actually the constitutional basis for the adoption of this Law. It cannot be the constitutional authority of the Parliament to adopt the laws referred to in Article 80(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitution... for the adoption of this Law. For the adoption of this Act, it is not a constitutional basis, but the constitutional basis is, in fact, the general constitutional basis referred to in Article 2(4) of the first subparagraph of Article 1 which is otherwise authorised by the Parliament to legislate individual political, economic and other issues and Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which prescribes and contains in itself the provision that elections against the President of the Republic will be governed by a special law. And that little letter writes the law, so it can be by one law or by several laws the matter of the election of the President of the Republic. Of course, when we talk about this, we must say that, in our view, the reasons and arguments for the urgent procedure cited in this Law are not valid because it would be difficult to accept the situation that there are reasons here for the country's defence, for the development of the economy or for preventing the country's development or interest, because there is still a lot of time until the election of the President of the Republic is held and, moreover, there should be a different way to address these issues in a quality way. The other reasons are of course of content nature above all, and we must say in this respect that we believe in the SDP that it is not enough to pass a law which will only be regulated by part of the electoral process for the President of the Republic, nor is it at all good to regulate only one section of the elections in the Republic of Croatia related to election campaigns, but rather that a single law should be adopted to regulate the election campaign in all cases where elections are being held, and if we cannot go to such a law at this stage now, then, as between the phase, a law on the financing of the election campaign of the President of the Republic should be made. Another thing we need to point out is that if such a proposal were to be accepted, then the question and the name of the Law itself should be considered. We must, in particular, point out some more of the questions that itself stem from these facts. In fact, when viewing the content of the Law, he opened a whole series of questions but even more raised questions about unopened issues. For example, there are no open issues about editing, nor are they defined as donations, which are resources, which are state resources, limits, donations, minimum and maximum, as are the case for anonymous donations, and how reports on the funds spent are submitted, and sanctions for non-execution of this Act are filed. It is, of course, particularly interesting if such a proposed law were to be adopted by the promoters by the public, it would, in fact, remain short on the information on which the donors are and which is the amount of donations and which is the real purpose of all these laws. Therefore, if we are looking at this aspect then we do not have to point out our observations regarding, for example, Article 1 we believe that the law regulates the way to raise funds only for the financing of electoral promotion but also for the activities, not only for the collection of funding of election promotion but also for the activities considered an election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, but not for the issues that define what donations are, which are state resources, then in particular extend it all to the entire election campaign and not just to the promotion. In Article 2, we need to define what is considered an election promotion by the campaign itself. It is necessary to determine the time when it starts and until it lasts and, of course, should prescribe the percentage of votes that candidates hold in the elections in order to exercise the right to compensation, the cost of election promotion from the state budget should be entered and to consider whether it should be entered into this law or whether it should remain in the electoral law as it is now prescribed that it is 10% of the votes. About Article 3 we believe that it is necessary to define what donations are, then see why donations are not, why... that they are only financial means and they are not but material rights, such as means of transport, technical equipment and other services, all except volunteer work, sympathisers, party colleagues, candidate presidents who will do so when volunteering, of course, if it is not professional work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thereafter, it is necessary to regulate the issue of anonymous donations, donations on behalf of third parties, and the amount of these donations, too, is lacking to regulate the amount of the limits of individual donors that he can donate, and of course is missing if that article remains the same ban on donors, to apply to other foundations and foundations but not to other non-profit organisations. What about religious, humanitarian organizations, etc. We have to say that the amendments to the Constitution Committee to a significant extent make our remarks easier and correct the situation with the proposed law but not until the end of what we believe we should get and regulate this law. Article 4. We believe that immediately in the beginning that we are fundamental conceptually different, in concept we are different, we do not think that the law should apply only to promotion because, according to us, the promotion is not the only activity of candidates in the campaign, and in addition, it is the Electoral Law that makes a difference when it makes a difference from the time when elections are called through the emphasis on the election, the implementation of the election campaign, the elections themselves, and the end of the situation after the elections have been held. For this reason, we believe that the Law should be extended to the entire election campaign and then extended and regulated to the use of funding and other goods and services at travel costs, work on the ground, functioning and... candidates as well as other payments of co-workers and services and need to regulate that, at that time, restrictions on candidates in the campaign, what they can do, what they cannot, in particular, limit the total resources that we need to spend in the election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic. In relation to Article 5, we believe that it is necessary to disappear and that it is necessary to define the resources of the state budget of units of local and regional self-government not to be used by officials. This could not only be financial resources, but must relate to material rights, from computers, phones, office materials, etc., jobs, services, transport, on the one hand. and, on the other hand, it is necessary to prohibit the use and work of the deputies themselves if it is a candidate who is already the President of the Republic. Now, it's important that we actually notice that it is necessary to install a few more articles. A number of articles must be incorporated which will be clearly spoken when the candidate who is the current President of the Republic performs as President of the Republic and which means can be used in the conduct of the duties of the President of the Republic is known, and when he performs as a candidate, which means necessary to protect the institution not only of the candidate, but the President of the Republic has the right to be boned exclusively in relation to all other candidates, which all the other State resources cannot benefit from. Of course, we also feel that it is necessary to extend Article 6 of the Report to the amounts of the funds of individual donors. We also believe that it should be extended to the cost of the election campaign in full, not just to the promotion. It should then be defined in Article 6 of the time-limits in which the time period is reported on elections and amounts. The reporting period cannot be completed before election day. Then we believe that the election and donations report should be delivered to the state electoral commission every 8 days and they must be public in full because it is of public interest. We need to prescribe and include a report on the funds spent in the campaign. and, of course, we believe that it is necessary to lay down sanctions for the violation of the provisions of this law and of the bodies implementing the elections in case they do not comply with the prescribed mandatory legal standards relating to an open account, collected funds, reporting, donations, elections of funds, ways of spending, whether anonymous donations have been collected, etc. We believe that everything should be prescribed and that it is... Article 6 does not prescribe. But there is another dimension of Article 6 which we would particularly like to point out about solutions offered, the truth of the will we repeat that the new Article 6 proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system does this significantly differently if this amendment is accepted and, in our opinion, it is much better, than the solution that is in the proposed text of the law, and in this respect we can support it, although we do not think that it fully resolves this issue, but just as a special side medicine a temporary medicine in, which should prevent further development of the disease. But our grudges aside from what I've said are those that have a serious political grudge and a political dimension. Namely, Article 6. I'll quote it. "in paragraph 1, the election report on the cost of election promotion must be submitted to the State Election Commission no later than 7 days before the election day which will assess the need to publish it." First, the fact is that the entire election promotion is not covered, let alone the entire election campaign, because 7 days before the elections are held, a report is practically to be submitted, and what about the funds that will be collected in those remaining 7 days and of course what is particularly from the aspect of their spending. Secondly, this is a very important collection of funds in order for the public to actually be informed about how candidates collect and collect funds from whom, because candidates, voters, must know and have the right and the ability to assess, whether to support that candidate who, for example, is funded by institutions from outside or that candidate relying on support within the country, or that candidate who may be relying on the support of natural and legal persons in the country and abroad, who can practically come into conflict of interest because he has promised certain services or counterproducts in such a situation. That is why we think it is not a good solution that the state commission will assess the need to publish them. We believe that if we want a transparent and public election campaign, and it should be, because it is an important element for the voter's decision-making actually to whom they will give confidence and their voice, that these reports must be published and that these reports must contain elections of funds, donors themselves and must contain a way of spending. The second item is even more dangerous to us. He says the State Election Commission will make public donations contrary to this law no later than 3 days before the day of the elections. Look, if that's the case, then we have a situation where the State Election Commission under the law discreetly assesses whether or not someone has raised a legal asset. At the same time, in the illegality of the elections and the constitutionality of the elections actually, the decision in the final line is taken by the Constitutional Court, not by the State Election Commission, which only at a certain stage of the administrative procedure actually makes such a decision. So, what can happen? There may be a very interesting situation, in order to be published by the State Election Commission on the basis of their assessment and their arguments that they have announced that some of the candidates have received illegally collected illegal funds. A formal legal fulfillment of the State Election Commission's task, but a major impact on the quality of the voter's opinion on whether or not to give that candidate confidence, imagine what kind of president it will be if he illegally raises funds to carry out an election campaign? This can have a significant impact on the final result of the election. And that, at the same time, the candidate for president cannot achieve the protection of the proper protection of his right. Why? Because when all the deadlines of the State Election Commission's conduct are respected and the decision of the Constitutional Court ends, then the deadline of these three days has already expired while the word follows, and in such a situation it may happen that the Constitutional Court's decision, which will, for example, determine not that it is illegal, but that it has quite legally collected those funds, remains nothing but a moral satisfaction, because it has effectively lost the elections. And such one power must not be given to, nor to the electoral commission, to enter, nor should one in particular doubt that the electoral commission will be malignancies to anyone. However, here you need to go from a point of view that the electoral commission should not be attacked so that, possibly because of its mistakes, it may be responsible for the final result of the election. And that the electoral commissions in giving their mandatory instructions, interpretations or decisions under the protection of the electoral right may be wrong, so we have witnessed these current election cycles that we have, where there have been cases where the electoral commission has given and taken the appropriate views according to the candidates' complaints in the protection of their rights, that, in fact, in front of the Constitutional Court, decisions should be quite different and often in favour of the candidates themselves, and in such a situation, such a provision should not be allowed. For all these reasons, we of the SDP suggest that despite these amendments proposed by the Committee, which amends this bill, to postpone the decision by emergency procedure, to conduct this as a public debate, the debate in the first reading, and to actually conclude that it is going to the second reading, and to hold a debate in the second reading within 9 months, and preferably then we have the Law on the financing of the entire election campaign, not just election promotions of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18775	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18776	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. As far as this first law on the special rights of the President of the Republic of Croatia is concerned after the conduct of its duties has ceased, the HDZ Club will support this law, this law prescribes certain rights that the president has after the conduct of his duties. The law lays down specific and stated rights, and we believe that the President's office of equipment, protection, the vehicle should not be questionable, because the president simply has his place in the structure of the state government, in the Constitution and in particular, and in the obligations and powers, we believe that these rights are not something that we are exaggerating and this kind of duty I think is in charge of such rights after the president ceases to exercise that duty. I think we need to promote the importance and integrity of the institution of the president of the state. That is why the Croatian Democratic Community will support this law and, by adopting this law, we are filling the legal gap that existed in our legislation in relation to these rights. As far as this Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of presidents is concerned, it is a law governing rules on the financing of election promotion for the election of presidents. This law also fills the gaps in legislation because we do not have any rules here and therefore it is good to adopt this law because it regulates the way in which elections are financed. The proposal sent by the government certainly has good intentions, the aim is to regulate this area, but the text of the Government's proposal is burdened with certain inaccuracies and inaccuracies but which we consider relievable. Therefore, the HDZ Club considers that the Government should in any case consider the amendments submitted by the Constitutional Committee to this law, because they do significantly correct the text of the law. The HDZ Club advocates that the financing of the electoral promotion be transparent, that the cost, revenue data and the sources of revenue be made public so that the public knows exactly how someone's campaign was financed. We also advocate these restrictions on the financing of the election campaign, which means that neither foreigners nor religious organisations nor non-profit associations, state institutions, state-owned companies can actually be the source of financing someone's election campaign. We also advocate that, indeed, after the elections, the data is made public so that the public is informed and has seen a full report on who funded someone's campaign. The HDZ will support this law, which, together with the amendments of the Constitution Committee, in any case, I think also brings order in this segment, and certainly we believe that one of the very important issues in the development of democracy and multilaterals is precisely this financing of political parties and we believe that in the future this Parliament and this government will also have to adopt certain rules of conduct. As regards this third proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia, the Democratic Community will not support this law because the solutions provided for in this law are partly embedded in this Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18777	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS respected representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18778	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposal of the Law on Special Rights of the President of the Republic, upon termination of the HNS Club's duties, the PGS Club will support this law, we believe, as a colleague has just said, that it ensures a level playing field, continuity in the work of the president, and after the conduct of a duty that will continue to communicate with many factors in the world, in us, etc., there is nothing disputed about that. This law is almost identical to the law in some of our neighbouring countries. Therefore, we have no doubt that it will work in us. But as far as the remaining two laws are concerned, given that time has moved away, I will take my exposure to only four short questions. The first question is whether it is necessary to adopt rules on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The answer on behalf of the PGS Club is certainly yes, we must bring it to us and it requires our public as well as democratic standards in Europe. The second question is whether the rules of the game should be regulated by a special law, as proposed by the Government or by a way to supplement the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, which is a proposal from a fellow SDP. In the HNS Club of the PGS, we are convinced that the amendment and addition of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia can properly and qualitatively regulate the way in which elections are funded or even better financed by the entire election campaign, as Mr Arlović said earlier, and here we agree with colleagues from the SDP. The third question is whether this law should also be passed by emergency procedure in July 2004 or whether the same law can be passed in September and October by regular procedure. If the election for the President of the Republic of Croatia as we believe it will be in February of next year then we could work on a regular procedure, give more time clearly to all of us NGOs and those who are interested in manifesting themselves and to help us make this law as high as possible. If, however, someone has different information regarding the term of holding the election for the president, then we understand the haste. The fourth question is what is the objective of this law. In the HNS Club of PGS, we would like to believe that the aim is to ensure a fair election race and full transparency of the financing of the elections. If so, we must decide between the two bids, the Government's offer to ensure transparency through a brief report of the National Election Commission in the National Journal several days before the elections themselves, or as co-workers from the SDP suggest, through a more extensive report by candidates on spent funds on sources of monetary and non-financial donations within eight days of the elections being held. If transparency is at stake, then the second proposal is probably ahead. If, through short reports before the election, it is intended to reach or send a specific message to the electoral body, then we will recognise the cunning of the second proposal, but also the danger of the proposal. In the HNS Club of the PGS, we will follow closely the course of this debate, possible acceptance of individual amendments by the proposings, and support a bill that will be more comprehensive, more correct, ensure greater transparency and a more correct electoral race. To be perfectly honest, we have no illusions that this law will deal with all the issues mentioned on our committees these days, in the media, in the reports of NGOs, but we will undoubtedly move our colleagues and colleagues in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18779	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, respected representative Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18780	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs! Well, here we have a whole set of laws relating to the election of the president of the state, but I would look a little more closely at the proposal for a Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. If we keep in mind the goal that the law should achieve, then we must say that we have a very strange proposal, which is why it is very superficial, does not regulate key areas and where it is trying to regulate to a large extent is unclear. The aim of the law should be to ensure transparency of funding for the presidential candidate. The aim will not be achieved by this law, and the public's interest will continue to be compromised. The public interest is to know who it is and what amounts it has financed the future president of the state who will represent the state on behalf of the citizens in the next term. Under this law, citizens will still not know this because it is proposed to regulate only the issues of how to raise funds for the financing of electoral promotion and the activities considered to be election promotion rather than election campaigns as a whole. Article 2 of the Law states that election promotion is financed from own resources and donations from domestic and foreign natural and legal persons, however, the law does not define the concept of donations. Donations can be different. They can be in money, things, services, rights, etc. For full transparency, a clear definition of the donation as well as the determination of the maximum amount of the donation is necessary. In our opinion, the Law also needs to determine the time considered an election campaign. The law stipulates which donations are not to be received, so it says no donations from foreign states and foreign political parties are to be received with which we fully agree. Neither public undertakings, legal persons with public authority and state-owned enterprises are to be accepted, with which we also agree. However, donations shall not be received from associations, foundations and foundations whose members are members of the state authorities of the Republic of Croatia, local and regional self-government bodies and other legal entities with public authority. We wonder how in practice this regulation is enforceable. The assumption of enforceability is the possibility of control and control is not possible because there is no single register of membership of the implementation associations of foundations and foundations. By accepting this provision, we would get another regulation that would be a dead letter on paper. I remind you that we already have laws that prohibit certain appointments of persons who are members of political parties and yet are regularly appointed party members, and only because it is the only relevant evidence of party membership of the candidate himself that he is not a member of any party. The Pharisee's law doesn't need it, it doesn't belong there, and that's why we throw it out not only of this but also of all the laws. So it seems indisputable that this law must ensure transparency of funding. The Proposer obviously believes that this transparency is provided by Article 6 which states that election reports for election costs must be submitted to the State Electoral Commission no later than 7 days before the election day, which will therefore assess the need to publish them. Then, the state electoral commission will make public donations contrary to the law no later than three days before the day of the elections. This article does not guarantee transparency for at least two reasons. First, the reports contain only sources of funding but not the names and last names of individual donors and the amount and type of donation. Secondly, the report shall contain data no later than 7 days before the date of the election. What about the sources and amounts that appear in the last seven days? These donations may be more than previously received and they do not even have to apply. What about the donations after the election? They don't have to apply either. Third, there is no obligation to publish these missing data, but the State Election Commission will assess the need for publication. Is that transparency? Is it the realisation of the right of citizens to know who he is and how he financed the election promotion of representative candidates? In particular, paragraph 2 is unacceptable, which says that the state electoral commission will make public donations contrary to the law no later than three days before the elections. It is a source of uncertainty and is also very suitable for manipulations and abuses that can have a crucial impact on election results. The state electoral commission is not infallible and its decision is not irrefutable. This is also evidenced by the practice and would be too dangerous to allow the State Election Commission to announce three days before the election the content of its decision on the counter-legislative nature of the donation which, in the follow-up procedure, may prove unfounded, incorrect, inexplicable, etc. For the candidate who lost the election repairs because of the announcement, there is no one. By not being allowed and simply amazing that such a proposal was found in a law addressed to the emergency procedure. Speaking of urgency, I must say that there is no single reason for the adoption of neither this Act nor the Law on the Rights of the President nor this proposal on the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, the third proposal that we have received. In this regard, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in Article 159 states: "Extremely, the law can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons, i.e. where necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy.". So there is no reason, and this is the ridiculous explanation of the proposings, and this is the Government of the Republic of Croatia when it says: "The need for a precise definition of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia has been assessed as sufficient reason for the urgency of the procedure." It is regrettable, though I am a member of the Committee that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the Parliament itself has accepted his imposed opinion of the Government and the Parliament itself is acting against the Rules of Procedure at this time. As it is apparent the remarks are many and they are well-founded. It would be wise to discuss this issue in detail and pass a law that we won't be ashamed of. We have experience with the Law of Conflict of Interest that was brought into the atmosphere of pre-election passion, not reason. Today, it is increasingly said that it is a conceptual failure, and therefore let us not slave with passions, let us put the ball on the ground, let us think carefully to find the best solutions and then pass the Law in a regular procedure. Such a bill as the proposed Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party cannot support. Although he believes the Law on the financing of the election campaign is absolutely necessary. As regards the remaining two draft laws, regarding the right of the President of the Republic of Croatia, as I have explained, we oppose the adoption of an emergency procedure because it is indeed a violation of the Rules of Procedure if we do not keep the integrity of this Assembly alone, there is no one in the state of Croatia who will protect our digntet and therefore we stick to what we ourselves have prescribed. All these shortcomings that I have listed, as well as the harmonisation of and the positive legal regulations, with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the constitutional decision as far as I know, contain a proposal on the selection of the president of the Republic of Croatia, which was referred to in the parliamentary procedure by the SDP Representatives' Club. It contains a more detailed and transparent arrangement, campaign financing arrangements, election campaigns by the president of the Republic of Croatia. And now that we are in three, with three proposals of which two are complemented, one in a more detailed, clearer and more transparent manner and guarantees, thank you fellow to the irony and guarantees transparency of this bill we will support.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18781	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. Same case as the last one. Honorable representativeplatimir Mršić. Same case as the last two. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18782	Dear President of the House, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, this Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic. Well, there's no doubt the law is necessary. It remains unclear why such a haste? Why emergency procedure? The president's term of office is ongoing. It is certain that it will continue until the end of the mandate, January, February, and why now, on the last day of work before the constitutional break, suffer such a law. And it's an emergency procedure. And the promoter has no logical explanation for it, and as we heard exactly from Mrs. Lalić is not even a businessman. It's breaking the Rules of Procedure. We ourselves violate the Rules of Procedure by accepting this urgency. This can go peacefully in two readings to see if these are the rights listed here, would they be more detailed? I just think you would. You know it's good to pass this law, but I think some solutions should be better. The Americans say, "Once a president, always a president." They're holding up their former presidents. We could see that now after President Reagan died. Croatia I also think should stick to the institutions of its President of the Republic. That's where he's supposed to have two clerks. Well, look, it's two secretaries. They must have some work hours, 8 hours of civil service. I guess one of them'll be working first thing in the afternoon. If one of them gets the flu this guy has no one to cooperate with, there's no one to pick up the phone. I mean, we could have written it down to five, that's five clerks. We can discuss it, but it would be better to discuss it in, in two readings. In the event of the death of the President of the Republic, and this is a special law on rights after the term of office. So in the event of death, which is in case he never dies. So after he's dead, he has some right after death. All illogical one expression. And then you've got an ex-president before, and now you're talking about the death of the President of the Republic, so it's unclear who he's referring to. What, for example, about military honors? The President of the Republic is commander-in-chief. As former President of the Republic of the former military commander, he has the right to military honor. Look at the other laws when it comes to the rights of soldiers, that's what they say. So they have the right to some military honors. There's no need for us not to work it out in the law when we're already bringing it in. And it's in this one because we don't have anyone else to work on. And why it wasn't done and why he's in a hurry now is completely unclear. When it comes to this second law and it's financing election promotion, the thing is even worse. There's an impression, so I have the impression that it's written in the Ministry for one afternoon left hand on speed and again unclear why by emergency procedure... It's good luck. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] This way sending it to the Parliament is almost offensive to the Parliament. It's rude in one way. First of all, that's not where the concepts are defined. The Committee on the Constitution had the need to correct it with amendments and I must say quite successfully it tried very skillfully, and not to make it all right with the amendments. It's supposed to be all over again to get some kind of head and, uh, tail. And despite the commendable efforts of the Constitutional Committee, something will be improved but not everything will succeed. First of all, it's unclear what's being financed? Election promotion. What does the word election promotion or campaign mean? This should be defined, first of all, to define the concepts. From what time it lasts, from election call to election day. But you have it all in the SDP bill that I don't know why you didn't at least copy it. Well, look at the mass of other cases you prescribed opposition proposals where you didn't have any good ideas. But that's not where you made it. Well, I wish you'd done it, and you didn't send an unfinished solution like this. Watch out for what is being done in article 1. Election promotions and activities considered an election promotion. And who thinks so? Who does? Article 2, watch out: “The election promotion is funded by its own resources and donations by domestic and foreign natural and legal persons.” The parties will finance the election campaign of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Legal and physical. Well, look, this is offensive to the state that you wrote. Well, you could've written more, and you're calling foreign intelligence to get them to choose a candidate to finance it. Well, a stranger can't be allowed to finance an election campaign. Well, this is, this is, this is a shame. This is really outrageous. Then what amount? It says nicely in the SDP proposal up to 7 million kuna. Well, you could have written 6, you could have written 14, anyway. But you didn't predict the amount at all. Well, the president, the candidate for President of the Republic, can't raise donations worth 300 million kuna. And tell me that's how long it takes for the campaign. And you send it to the Parliament without even writing a note. Then Article 3. Now “no donations from foreign states and foreign political parties must be received”, and individuals can also be made by foreign companies. There's a lot of parties that can't be allowed by the states, I guess the governments can't. Then you lack what the SDP has in its proposal, which is the whole point 4. These are domestic entrepreneurs and legal entities operating with state authorities in order to acquire profits. That's unusually important. And why did you miss it? I'd like the Ministry's representative to tell me if it was deliberately dropped, if it counts for someone to finance someone's election campaign or if you missed it because you were working fast. Article 4: “For the organisation of promotional events”. What is a promotional event? What is a promotional event? Is that a pre-election rally? Is this a tour of the entire country? So watch out for the presidential candidate has to visit the entire country. And it's a campaign and that's what it costs among other things. He's got to sleep somewhere. He's got to stay somewhere. E, and personally see Article 6. I have the impression that this was written to accommodate one of the presidential candidates, and that's why it's going into an emergency procedure, and that's why it's written like this. Because look at what the article 6 provides. The report on these costs must be submitted to the State Electoral Commission no later than 7 days before the elections are held, which will then assess the need to publish them. And then three days before the election is held at the top of the campaign, when voters actually decide that election commission will announce publicly that a presidential candidate has been collecting donations contrary to this law. And by doing so, the electoral commission will clearly eliminate the presidential candidate from the next race. It will decide the result of the election. If you had that in mind, don't throw it away because you're not funny and you're bothering me. Please don't throw away Mrs. Babic-Petrichevic. And Mr. President-in-Office, warn the representative not to interfere with my exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18783	I didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18784	Yeah, he hears. And he doesn't hear, you don't hear well?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18785	I'm tired. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18786	You don't hear well? Look if you keep that in mind don't think this is going to run out of echoes in public. If you had in mind disqualifying a presidential candidate, the public will read it. That's what the press will write you. And if you didn't have that in mind, pull the emergency procedure. Let's discuss this in two readings. Let us discuss this and the institutions of civil society. Let's get to the solution, so they're normal. Don't do this because this scandal, this is a scandal for both the Croatian Parliament and the President of the Republic, and for the government that sent this to the entire country. Something like that could happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18787	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18788	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I chose to discuss this subject personally, for the simple reason that I wanted to make some amendments. And to one amendment to the adjudicated SDP repatriate club, because I do not believe that the issue of the right of the candidate of the President of the Republic is sufficiently resolved so that it can object to the electoral commission and I therefore propose that in Article 47 of the applicable law behind the word: as well as a candidate for the President of the Republic who is satisfied with such a decision to delete them. This could practically enable such a situation. And I propose that a new article 15 be added to Article 14 of the current 15th to become 15th in the SDP's proposed club. However, I must say that I did not propose a coelga or the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the law on the financing of the electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia I made a whole set of amendments. And this amendment, which not only relates to the proposed text of the law, but also to amendments that go and go beyond the proposed text, respecting the rule that in the Emergency Procedure Act it is distributed in law and other readings and that it actually opens up the possibility of an amendment trying to recover throughout this matter. I must say that I have worked on these amendments together with associations that follow the elections for the president of the Republic of Croatia and not only for the president of the Republic of Croatia, but for the election campaign in the Republic of Croatia. And in this regard, in particular, I point out to gong both in accordance with both theirs and my free stand and the club's position, I believe that a law should be passed that regulates an election campaign rather than an election promotion. And that is why I propose an amendment first to the title of the law so that the title of the law is changed and that it is the final draft law on the financing of an election campaign for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that Article 1 should quite differently regulate the issue of what this law regulates, and therefore I propose that the text reads, this law regulates the definition of the election campaign, the campaign orator, the kind of gifts of fundraising for the election campaign, the activities considered an election campaign for the presidential elections in the Republic and so on. In the article behind Article 1, I think it is necessary to add Article 1a, which would define the time of the start of the election campaign, and what makes the election campaign, and in this respect I also propose one amendment. Article 1b is replaced by the following: which would arrange an election campaign which could also be organised by, of course, the legality of carrying out an election campaign. I also believe that an amendment should be put on the article to change it. And that it clearly defines what an election campaign is doing, which is financed from the funds and which means can be used by natural and legal persons. Furthermore, Article 2a should be added to Article 2a which would actually be regulated by the campaign organiser, who must practically osgiuate to open a special account for the implementation of the election campaign. And, of course, the common obligation that candidates or organisers of the election campaign are obliged to pay the funds to that account within 72 hours of their arrival. Article 2b is replaced by the following: which would arrange the kinds of donations. And in this way actually remove them all doubts about what is considered donations, donations. What with financial resources, what with material goods, rights and so on. And, of course, the services that es can collect and which are secured by the collection. Article 3 would require more precise arrangements to cover the election costs of the electoral promotion because donations are not to be received. Now different legal entities, and now that I believe that it can be exceptionally allowed in smaller quantities of donations and natural and legal persons and foreign states, but that these donations, as well as anonymous donations, should not exceed 5% of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia because such donations, if they appeared, would eventually have the opportunity to fit. Of course, Article 4 should, in particular, address the issue of funding not promotional but electoral campaigns. And Article 5 should be completely edited in a different way. Thus, candidates for the presidential elections in the Republic of Croatia should not use the funds of the state budget during the election campaign, i.e. when they can use the funds from the state budget and the budget of the units of local self-government. Article 6 should be completed quite differently. And after that, add Article 6a, which grumbles about early and final reports. In particular, Article 6b should be added, which actually deems permanent sanctions for non-compliance with the law on the issue of financing an election campaign or collecting donations. And it's from the funds collected to the ones that are collected that are recorded. So by means of what is done with the funds that are actually collected and which should not be used by law for the election campaign, the proposal is in a special article to make such funds a state budget. Or I can come back if you can even recognize their donor. Here, these are the amendments that practically cover a whole series, and I am aware that there is a constant danger that these amendments will not be adopted. Alil is also very well aware that these adms will remain recorded in the phonogram and file, respectively, documentation of the Croatian Parliament. And that it will be very, very important to see already in these elections for the President of the Republic of Croatia and after who has proposed anything about the transparency of the election of the President of the Republic and the election of the President of the Republic. I think that's very important, and that if we're looking for a question like this, we shouldn't allow ourselves not to solve this issue until the end, but to solve it in part. The more this issue can have, the more political connotation, and even on the international agenda, because we must not forget that we are still on the monitor's council of Europe and the OSCE that are following the elections, and in particular the legislative regulation of the election of all and the President of the Republic, and that we will take care when we have already agreed to adopt this Law, we have given the whole and the right way to regulate this issue because we must not forget that, among other things, we have had an average score of 3.25 to conduct the elections by the OSCE. And international communities. Among other things, because we don't have the law on financing election campaigns in the Republic of Croatia. Now, if I bring him in then it is time to bring him in whole and in a quality way and to avoid any possible traps that may arise because of a partial or inappropriate way of regulating this issue and if we are not already at this extraordinary session in an emergency procedure, I believe that we will soon reach out to the Croatian Parliament documentation and reach out to these solutions - we will probably find it easier through the new law all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18789	Thank you very much. Where are your amendments?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18790	There are amendments I can give you Mr. President because they're also given in procedure. But the days would be a dilemma the amendments are there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18791	Yeah. That's it. Otherwise, it's not a campaign. It's a campaign. There's a sugar tail campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18792	...on a little bit of an emphasis that you're using in this case is quite correct. But when they are used West-Srijem or East-Srijemic in Croatia, then it is in the campaign, it is so in my County unlike you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18793	Honorable representative Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18794	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I won't take more than a minute. Staying entirely in the name of the SDP club, I apologize to the Honorable colleague Arlovic and Mrs Ljubica Ladic on behalf of HSS. In the name of responsibility for the laws that we bring in this honorable House, and whether I may influence them or not, I want it to remain recorded that I have warned that all the dangers contained in Article 6 that the Government has proposed and that it may have, if it remains this, direct influence and error, accidentally on the results of the elections and the minimum for the adoption of this law if we already adopt it by an urgent procedure, it is up to me to adopt an amendment to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Amendment of their number 4 to Article 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18795	Thank you very much. State Secretary Antun Palarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18796	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be brief to finish the job sooner. I thank you for your support for the Law on Special Rights of the Presidents of the Republic and I think it is good for this law to be passed and to fill that gap in the Croatian legal system. I thank you for the discussions on the Law on the financing of election promotion. The government is still intent on resolving this issue on time before the start of the electoral promotion because today it has not been resolved. Obviously, the government had more confidence in the State Election Commission than anyone else has, but we will consider these amendments to the Constitution Committee very carefully tomorrow at the government meeting in Gospić and probably also accept it so that if the dominant debate goes in the direction that this is a better solution, we will not insist on our part of the law in that part and in that part that is being corrected without a technical solution. Thank you very much. We stay with the proposal to pass this law along with the amendments that we will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18797	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate in the final draft of the law... I'm sorry, you're right. Dear Representative, Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18798	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I want to thank all the participants of tonight's debate of this law, in particular their presence, and especially those who participated in the debate. In particular, I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr Palaric, who indicated that all amendments submitted because he said amendments submitted to the Law on the financing of election promotion by the President of the Republic of Croatia would be discussed and if they are good enough to be accepted. It is therefore quite certain that a large number of my amendments will then be accepted because they are heading towards improving this law and resolving these issues. But not to discuss further what the government will eventually do is its constitutional and commercial and legal right to decide differently than is said here. Thank you again very much. I hope that this debate is not only about this law, about this proposal that was here, but about this problem that we are going to solve in this way, perhaps now, and maybe tomorrow this debate will be a good basis for us to address this issue in quality and complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18799	Thank you very much. I was left to conclude the debate in the final proposal of the Law on the Special Rights of the President of the Republic upon termination of office, the Final Proposal for a Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Selection of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs would tomorrow continue with the remaining remaining item of the agenda, which is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the Constitutional Court decision of the Republic of Croatia since 12 May 98, where the same procedure of emergency procedure was adopted. The amendment to, those who are in accordance with the law and Rules of Procedure in the rebalancing of the budget and the Budget Law has 110 on the budget, several on this Law on the implementation of the budget, to the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education around 60 amendments, to the Law on Road Safety around 80. A little less, much less about amending the law and supplementing violations, a dozen of amendments and additions to the Penal Code. If all these calculations could be done by midnight, then after midnight, which opens up another problem, then an extraordinary session. Tomorrow, therefore, this debate, which starts at half past ten, would be good for the Parliament to do it rationally, so that we may be in a position and the possibility that perhaps even earlier than the announced vote, at 6:00, the vote will begin, but that will depend on the development of the event. Thank you very much. We'll continue at half past ten. Good night. 3. Final proposal of the Law on the financing of election promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 139 - PUBLICATION The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Dear Vice-President Mato Arlovic, the Committee on the Constitution and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18801	The government accepts all amendments to the Committee on the Constitution and the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18802	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the law. We are going to the amendments of the respected Vice President Mate Arlovic. Amandamn 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18803	It shall not be accepted for reasons contrary to Articles 13, 14 and 16. The law on the election of the President of the Republic which explicitly speaks of election promotion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18804	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, we believe and believe that the entire election campaign should be arranged, that the election promotion is just one of the segments of the election campaign and that it certainly does not include financing only election promotions, but the overall financing of an election campaign covering a whole series of actions and of course activities, and for this reason Amendment No 1 has been proposed to replace the term "promising" with the term "camping" including the title of the law. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18805	Who's up for that election campaign amendment? Thank you. He's not accepted. Amendment 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18806	It's unacceptable. We believe that the Government's proposal has sufficiently defined the content of this law, and this proposal is in line with other proposed amendments that probably will not be accepted by the Government. We therefore remain with the Government's proposal and do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18807	Dear Representative Arlovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18808	The proposed amendment specifies the content of the law, the content of the laws, as several types of elections are being held in the Republic of Croatia and it is necessary to regulate the financing of the election campaign in all elections, and in this respect it is necessary in all segments and it is necessary to regulate more precisely the definition of the election campaign, election campaign organisations, types of gifts, means of fundraising for the election campaign, the activities considered an election campaign for the presidential elections, the way in which the financial reports on the collected and spent funds for the election campaign and the criminal sanctions are published. And for that reason, I have proposed an amendment like this, and I ask that it be voted upon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18809	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18810	The government does not accept for the reason why it is in the newly proposed Article 1a. Contrary to the current Article 13 The law on the election of the President of the Republic, because this law wishes to define in a different way the duration of the election campaign, from the day of the election, and Article 13. The law on the election of the President of the Republic is defined by the term of the presidential campaign if read carefully. That's from the day the list of candidates is announced 24 hours before the election day. Therefore, we do not accept the newly proposed Article 1b in relation to the newly proposed Article 1b. We do not accept because it deviates from the government's concept, that the election promotion for the collection of funds is a responsible candidate, and not a possible campaign organiser because we do not want to introduce this other body other than the presidential candidate, and we do not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18811	It is in this respect that we do not agree with the proposed proposal, nor with the interpretation of the Law on the election of the President of the Republic for a simple reason, because the law discusses the election promotion of the time you are talking about, rather than the election campaign that starts by calling the elections, and for this reason I have proposed this amendment number 3 which should be included in Article 1a. and b. of course a completely different composition of the election campaign and the timing of the election campaign and the time frame of the official election campaign and whose costs have been initiated, the way in which the election promotion is financed, i.e. the campaign. The duration of the Election Promotion is prescribed by the electoral law so that it can define who can organise the election campaign and why it can organise an election campaign and in this respect it is absolutely necessary to adopt such amendments in order to obtain a valid and quality law. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18812	Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18813	The government does not accept this because it considers that the Government proposal and the supplement adopted by the amendment of the Constitution Committee are sufficiently regulated by this matter in Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18814	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this amendment 4 is necessary to accept among other reasons, you know what makes sense to me why you laugh, you don't know why you're laughing, and the less you know, the more you laugh. Namely, respected colleagues and colleagues of this amendment need to be accepted among other things in order to comply with the Council of Europe's recommendation on the possibility that both foreign and legal persons can finance election campaigns but cannot be financed by states, foreign states and governments and, in this respect, such an amendment has been made and proposed that we have, if anything else in the phonogram of this session, that such an amendment has been proposed and that such substance has been discussed in this House even if it has not been adopted, if nothing else is due to history. Thank you very much. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18815	Thank you very much. Please vote. Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 5.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18816	The government doesn't accept. This amendment proposes the addition of new articles, Article 2a. and 2b. The government believes that this would be an over-injection in the organisation itself of the implementation of the presidential promotion and considers these articles to be unnecessary particularly imposing restrictions on how much a donation can be made and that this would be up to a maximum of ten average salaries in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18817	A colleague of Arlović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18818	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I agree that this does not enter into the concept of legislators, colleagues, government gentlemen, for a simple reason, because they did not see it in other countries of the modern European Union where there are limited funds to which they are donated. Not only for presidential candidates, but also for parliamentary elections by natural and legal persons. Among other things, so as not to come into conflict with any possible interest and not to have a capital impact on how the representatives of the people will behave, elected to certain bodies, as well as the President of the Republic. That is why I insist on this amendment, i.e. Article 2 (a) and (b), and Amendment 5 is voted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18819	Thank you very much. I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in? He didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18820	The Government does not accept the proposal for the Government, with the adoption of the amendment of the Constitution Committee, sufficiently precise and clearly provides for which funds cannot be received. And then, in itself, it is clear that if a donation from those funds is accidentally received that, unauthorized sources, money or service must be returned. I mean, if it's mostly money or stuff.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18821	A colleague of Arlović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18822	Unfortunately, if it were so prescribed in the text of the Law or in the amendments of the Constitutional Committee, I would give up this amendment, but it did not. It is not prescribed in the Committee and in the amendments and in the text of the law that funds that are collected in an unauthorized manner are to be returned to the contrary to these laws and gifts, or if the donor is not known to belong to the State budget. That's why I've proposed an amendment like this, and I'm asking it to be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18823	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18824	Amendment 7 has been accepted in substance, accepting Amendment 3 to the Constitution Committee, except for the word "campage". So we do not accept the amendment, but in content it has already been resolved to the previously accepted amendment of the Committee on the Constitution. The only difference is that the Committee on the Constitution says "promising" is the termology of the government, and in the amendment that we now reject is "campage".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18825	I ask that in this word that has not been accepted, therefore, a part of the amendment in which no vote has been accepted. Who's in, about the campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18826	Who's up for a "camp"?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18827	Yeah, let him vote yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18828	Not enough votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18829	It will be, will be changed and complemented after talks with the OSCE. It will be, it will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18830	What about the SS?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18831	No, no, not with the SS, but with the OSCE.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18832	What about the OSCE? Amendment number 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18833	We do not accept it because it introduces a terminology that does not conform to the other provisions of this Law. It's about "promising" and "campaño" again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18834	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18835	Please, who's in? He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment number nine.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18836	The government doesn't accept. This amendment seeks to limit the maximum amount that can be spent in the election promotion. We believe that since we have prescribed a provision that data on the funds spent must be presented that this provision is too high and voters will be able to assess how much it costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18837	Comrade Arlović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18838	I remain, of course, whose amendment I am seeking to vote on, but let me just say it one more time. In many countries they are limited, in much richer countries than the Republic of Croatia, are limited actually amounts, maximum amounts of funds that can be spent in different types of election campaign and so on for the election of the President of the Republic. And in this regard, I propose this amendment that candidates in the elections for the President of the Republic could not spend more than 7 million kuna. I hope that the Parliament will take care of the economic situation in which the country is located, bring and accept such an amendment that it will show, in fact, the modesty of the public government in relation to the fact that it should share the fate of the voters, or the people. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18839	Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough. Amendment number 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18840	The government doesn't accept. This amendment represents a modified version of the government text that has been declared very dangerous in this House and as an instrument for possible manipulation by the State Election Commission which could discredit the candidate before the elections. Since we accepted the harmonised text of Article 6 as proposed by the Constitutional Committee, I do not think we can accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18841	The vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18842	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get enough votes. Amendment number 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18843	We don't accept. Amendment No 11. proposes the introduction of a new Article 6a, new Article 6.b. In this article, the new Article 6a seeks to be specified, to be entered into the details of the report on the funds collected. We find this unnecessary, unnecessary burden on this Law, and Article 6b provides for sanctions for the violation of this Law. We were really thinking about trying to accept some of these amendments, but a number of questions have been raised. Who's going to give the sanctions, if that's what I thought the State Election Commission was going to give the sanctions, that it's going to do to the courts, whether it's going to do to judges for violations like that. Given the constitutional position of the President of the Republic who will be elected when all this is published, it seems to us that the amendment has been unspeakable and therefore we reject it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18844	Vice President Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18845	Of course, I will request a vote on this amendment for a simple reason because the amendment is complete in Articles 6a and 6.b. Not only does it provide for the way in which the early submission of the report on the funds spent and delivered, the final report of its sanctions, but it is also responsible for the conduct of the procedure, stipulates that the State Election Commission is obliged to monitor the implementation of this Act and, in the event of its infringement, to initiate a misdemeanour proceedings before the competent court. Hence, it is also determined who is in charge of determining that the offence. Therefore, for all these reasons, we believe that all of this Law and all of these provisions that have been passed, if sanctions for its, in fact, enforcement of proper behaviour were not accepted, have the character of instructive provisions, non-binding provisions regarding the conduct of candidates both in the entire election campaign and in particular its significant part and election promotion. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-14-0.u18846	Please, who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Thank you. Restraint? I note that with 87 votes for, 5 against and 2 abstentions, the Law on the financing of the electoral promotion for the election of the President of the Republic of Croatia was adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer with the proposed amendments. that one representative is going to his term of office, the other is proposed to go, so I would only ask that, in accordance with Article 204(2), I propose the addition of the agenda of this session, which I would immediately supplement and resolve. The Mandate Commission's report. Any of the MPs have any objections to this entry point? There isn't. There, then it's fixed. - A report from the Mandate-Immunity Commission asking the President of the Mandatory Commission of Damir Sesvecan to file a report.
