ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! You have before you a proposal to amend the Law on Medicinal Products in several segments, so I will briefly explain each of them. The first part of the amendments refers to the Central Ethics Commission. In fact, because of a number of irregularities observed in the clinical trial process, we are proposing here some changes that would fully clarify some of the doubts that exist in the current legislation. In Article 1, we propose that the Central Ethics Committee grant approval to examine all clinical trials, and those that take place monocentrely, so in one hospital and those that take place multicentrely in several institutions. So far, the Central Ethics Commission has had jurisdiction and has granted approval only for multicentre studies and for these monocentre approvals, it was not from the Central Ethics Commission but from the hospital Ethics Commission. So this way we raise responsibility to a higher level and double surveillance, so I'd like to ask you to accept such a change. In Article 2, we also propose to amend the contract between the clinical research providers, i.e. the product manufacturer and the institution. Although there is a obligation under the current law to conclude such a contract is not taxing that it must contain but that the contract refers to professional supervision of clinical trials because the legislator apparently considered that financial relations between the two entities were resolved by other existing laws in the area of finance. As we have seen with inspection supervision over the past month, there is often no speech in these contracts on financial relations between the contracting authorities of the clinic and the institution then we have proposed to supplement the content of the contract in such a way that it must necessarily include the financial obligations of the researcher so that these costs are not invoiced on the burden of compulsory insurance. Article 3 is the consequence of several international documents, primarily as a result of the Stabilisation and Association document. This is the consequence of a memorandum concluded with the United States and the consequences of actually respecting international rules on intellectual property and patents. In other words, Croatia enters a circle of countries that protect intellectual property and patents in the way that it protects the countries of the European Union and the United States. In this way intellectual property and patents receive the right value to be in view of the invested intellectual energy in patents and of course financial resources. The amendment therefore concerns that the finished medicinal product is identical with the finished product of the original manufacturer provided that the original manufacturer of the finished medicinal product given in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the European Union countries has been authorised to place the medicinal product on the market for more than six years ago, provided that such medicinal product is placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia, not in the European Union but in the Republic of Croatia, such medicinal product should not undergo clinical, toxicological and pharmacological research. We therefore agree with the legislation of the European Union. The following article requires that the following two articles be corrected and one illogical or, in fact, a clumsy solution in controlling the complete problem of medicines, from production to marketing. In the Drug Agency Act approximately two years ago, it was excluded from the Ministry of Health pharmaceutical inspection and was put into the Medicines Agency. Unfortunately, the Agency for Medicinal Products has been functioning for over a year but the inspection, the pharmaceutical inspection has not functioned at all. Since it has been functioning in the Ministry of Health for many years, there are personnel who have the status of a pharmaceutical inspector we suggest that the inspection be returned to the Ministry of Health, which is logical because the Ministry of Health is the authority of the Agency's administration. In this way, the monopoly of the agency would also be reduced as the Agency conducts both the registration and surveillance of the medicinal product, which is of course not far from a certain possibility of conflict of interest. And if you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment on two amendments immediately, if I may, because they're really very closely connected. Two amendments to the SDP that we cannot accept because they refer to a regulation already covered by this law. The first amendment requires the completion of a sentence after the point or to say "in one of the Member States of the European Union". This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This article must end with or because the original article, which will include a number of other options in the consolidated text. That's why the sentence ends with or because the next paragraph comes to a new indent. Why is the European Union not allowed to stand here? The European Union must not stand here even in substance because the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe, which is called the Code of Medical Products Directive, said that this refers to those medicines placed on the market in the host country, in this case Croatia and not put on the market in the host country and in the countries of the European Union. So if we had accepted this amendment, then it would be contrary to the European Parliament's directive. I'll read it correctly. Article 10 of that Directive states: "The applicant is not obliged to present the results of toxicological and pharmacological studies if it can prove that the medicinal product is essentially similar to the medicinal product authorised in the European Union or Croatia for at least six years" and now it is important that "it is the same in the Member State in which the application is submitted.". Therefore, not that it is on the market in other European Union countries, so this amendment does not comply with the European Directive. The second amendment asking to add what will happen to medicines whose registration is ongoing is also unnecessary so we cannot accept it because it is logical that the law is not applied retrogradely. All medicines that have entered the procedure of course under the regulation they have entered will and will complete their procedure so that this article cannot be accepted, this amendment cannot be accepted either. It is also not possible to accept a provision to apply this law from the date of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union because the date when we must adopt the international obligations is 1 March 2005, so in a little less than three months. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That's why these amendments are inappropriate and we can't accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29205	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Mimica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29206	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to start an incorrect quote at the very end of Mr. Secretary's presentation, which stated that on 1 March 2005, we must lay down a regulation like this, due to the obligations on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we accepted the obligation of a total package of protection of intellectual property rights, to bring this package to a similar level of state how intellectual property is protected by the European Union. So we've already brought the entire large package of intellectual property protection to a full level. If we don't do this now, we still have the arguments to interpret and convince the European Union that we are at a similar level. Therefore, there is no direct obligation for medicinal products and these generic medicinal products to make such a solution by this deadline.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29207	Thank you. Whether the committee's rapporteurs want a word. The Committee on Lawmaking, European Integration, the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, President of the Committee, Commissioner Marko Turic, is hereby adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29208	Dear Mr. President, the distinguished vice presidents of the Croatian Government. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health is held at the 21st session of the Committee on State on November 30th 2004. Discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the laws on medicines, and medical products. With a final draft of the law. The Committee discussed the law as a home working body in accordance with its rules of procedure. In his opening statement, he introduced the Committee members to the reasons for the adoption of this law. That implements the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to bring the legislation closer to the European Union. In a brief discussion, the members of the Committee supported the provisions of the law, which guarantee the level of protection of intellectual, industrial and commercial property, with the measures envisaged for the implementation of those laws. After that, members of the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the laws on medicinal products and medical products. In the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29209	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Stjepan Bačić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29210	Dear Mr. President, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the final proposal for a law on changes and supplements on medicinal products and medical products that go into urgent action. It is already explained why and I will, on behalf of the HDZ Club, immediately declare that the club will support this final bill. I would remind you that the law was passed on medicinal products and medicinal products in 2003. And the novelty brought by this law is that an agency was established as a special and legal institution, especially a legal body that runs all the care of medicines and medical products. However, already then some articles were put in part of the article that would start applying only from 1. One this year. This is Article 16(1) and Article 19(2) or (6). In fact, it is that the deadlines necessary for the Agency to approve or not approve the applicant for the medicinal product registration. So it's about 90 days, and now it's about 210 days. Therefore, the agency has its powers and, as the proposing said in this draft law that goes into emergency proceedings, it is about a change in the four parts of this law, the existing law. He's the first to be tied to the so-called. The institute is given an exclusive. Therefore, on the protection of the rights of patents there is a change already so much that the applicant is not obliged to apply the results of toxicological, pharmacological and clinical trials if it proves that the medicinal product is identical to that of the original manufacturer in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the countries of the European Union. But also that it was put into circulation in the Republic of Croatia. This also allows the provision on a memorandum signed by the Croatian state with the United States to protect intellectual property rights. The second change was related to a pharmaceutical inspection that was required under the law to be in the agency, however, it proved that the functioning of the entire inspection process was not best. And now it's continuing to keep that inspection pharmaceutically within the Department of Health. However, in the first version of the law, the agency practically made a first - degree solution in the appeal procedure and the complaint could be addressed to the Ministry of Health. In this now change is practically no more appeal proceedings, but if the Ministry of Health inspection which refuses to appeal on the framework of the Ministry of Health then goes into administrative dispute. The third thing is related to the central ethical commission which is now gaining greater authority because the Ethics Commission of the Institute in which Rijeka is being examined was responsible for monocentre studies, so when the cure was being examined only in one health institution. And now this is foreseen whether it is a monocentre or multicentre study that it is certainly the central ethical committee that controls this monocentre study. So it's just one reinforcement I'd say that surveillance so that no abuses happen. And that fourth thing that's important, and also related to the drug study, in health care institutions, so primarily in hospitals, is to give the health care institution an insight not only gives approval and consent to the examination being carried out in that particular health facility. But all financial elements of the contract must also be presented. So the part that says what the cost of the survey is, because it has often been this famous affair that has now emerged recently that in fact this financial part has been completely excluded from the supervision of the health institution, now these changes are coming back again. Under surveillance and that financial part of the health care facility. The law therefore regulates the market for medicines and medical products in the Republic of Croatia by this change. The emergency procedure is explained by the need to respect international obligations, such as a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the United States. And the protection of intellectual property rights. As well as protecting intellectual industrial and commercial property rights in European Union countries. To what we are bound by the adopted standards, from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the Interim Agreement on Trade Issues. And what should come into force 1.3. If this law is now passed, we will meet those conditions at 1.1 next year. So sooner than expected. And as the government explained, in the countries of the European Union, the deadline between 6 and 10 years is actually when this privileged position of the manufacturer of the original medicinal product is valid. From the above mentioned club HDZ supports this final draft law amending and supplementing the laws on medicines and medical products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29211	Thank you. The HSS club, the respected representative of Ljubica Lalić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29212	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to this Parliament to adopt by emergency procedure. As Article 159. The Rules of Procedure lays down the reason why the law can be passed by an emergency procedure to determine that there are actually no such reasons. But the Rules of Procedure don't matter when there's the will of the majority. The government says in its explanation of the Emergency Proposal, given the need to respect the commitments made by the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights, and the obligation to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Government estimates that there are justified reasons for the adoption of this Act by an urgent procedure. So the motive of urgency is just a quick commitment. It is an assessment of the government, but unfortunately the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that would have to protect the Rules of Procedure. If this is the only and main motive, then we must remind ourselves that the Memorandum of Understanding of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights confirmed by the Croatian Parliament on 3 March 2004. At the same time as the Memorandum in the Assembly procedure, there was also a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products. With the call for a session, the draft agenda included this bill so that it would simply disappear in the final agenda. We're assuming that the motionor pulled him out of proceedings for reasons unknown to us. The fact that the proposal was withdrawn from the procedure in February of this year, and that nothing has been done since then, clearly indicates that there was enough time for regular procedure. In the regular procedure, the subject is discussed in detail from all aspects and the best possible solutions are sought which are true in the general interest. That the reason for a detailed and peaceful debate is also a clear fact that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States and the protection of intellectual property rights has been signed since 26 May 1998. But, of course, for the creation of the obligation, the Memorandum should have been confirmed by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament only confirmed it on 3 March 2004, meaning 6 years after the signing. The question arises why is there such a gap between signing and confirming in the Croatian Parliament? The answer to this question is simple, which is that by confirming this Memorandum, newspapers are being introduced into Croatian legislation that regulate a very sensitive area of retroactive patent recognition and the institution of exclusion is being introduced. What does that mean? This means that the applicant is not obliged to submit the results of toxicological and pharmacological studies and the results of clinical trials in case it proves that the medicinal product is identical to the finished product of the original manufacturer, provided that the original manufacturer of the finished medicinal product is given in the Republic of Croatia or in any of the Member States of the European Union for the marketing of the finished medicinal product over 6 years ago and that this medicinal product has been placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia. This means that the introduction of this institute into Croatian legislation introduces the possibility of preventing competition from entering the country's market that accepts the institute. This means eliminating potential domestic competition, since for many medicines produced by the domestic pharmaceutical industry it is not possible to obtain a marketing authorisation under a reduced procedure based on the equivalence studies in the period marked as in this institute, which is in the Croatian case for 6 years. In other words, it means that the institute prohibits the registration of a generic medicine in a shortened procedure. As the preparation of a complete dossier by 2rd, 3rd, etc., the applicant for patent recognition and after that placing the product on the market is completely unrealistic in such a short period of time, in that period, regardless of the patent situation on the market, it may only be the original product. Simplifiedly, the introduction of the institute means a 6-year exclusion of any competition or domestically from the Croatian market. That institute extends the monopoly of the original product on the market and, after the expiry of patent protection, excludes generic competition. It is not clear that the prices of generic drugs are lower than the product of the original producer and that there is no need for generic medicinal products to conduct extremely expensive clinical studies of the medicinal product, and besides, there is no monopoly on the market that creates competition. The result of competition is ultimately a cheaper drug and a cheaper health care system. Therefore, the acceptance of amendments and additions to this Act is the acceptance of more expensive medicines and a more expensive health care system that suffers from a lack of money. The solution is not seen in the transfer of this burden to citizens who are mostly poor, but everything indicates that this will happen. How, of course, this proposal for the law is not visible, but the logical consequence of accepting a more expensive health care system that the state will not be able to finance. This Assembly has easily confirmed the Memorandum without a detailed study or a study to assess the effects of the application of the institute to the health and economic system in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that the members of the European Union have included that institute in their legislation and it is evident that the Republic of Croatia will have to do so sooner or later, if it wants to be a member of the European Union. However, no country which entered the European Union in this year has introduced in its legislation a provision to apply this novelty on the 8th day of its publication in the official report of the State, but the application of this institution has been extended until the moment of entry into the European Union of each of these countries. It is completely unclear why Croatia is doing this. In the way that the current members of the European Union have done so, the economy of each of these countries has been given an opportunity to adapt to the emerging situation. We choose a second time and do not want to learn from others. We at the Club of the Croatian Peasant Party believe that we have not chosen a good path, and we will not be able to express our abstention by voting on this Bill proposal because we do not want to participate in something that, if necessary, the President of the Parliament falsifies and adapts the need for a given moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29213	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the chairman of the Committee of Justice, Mr. Rade Ivas, called a meeting of the Committee today, December 2, at the beginning of 13:30 in the Chamber of Stjepan Radić, 133 in our building of the Croatian Parliament. With a draft agenda, the draft law on international legal aid in criminal matters with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 222. Thank you very much. So, at 13:30. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS Mr. Representative Nikola Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Croatian People's Party Club and the Primorje-Gorskin Union supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Products for the reasons that it supports all four points proposed by these amendments and amendments to the Law, starting with changes to action, ethical commissions, which is the first and first in a way that all research should be reported to the Central Ethics Committee, resulting from negative practice and life has shown that this is the way it should be. We support this with one thought that we do not now intend to intervene and with the intention to become part of the bill, but it seems to us that in Croatia, given how big we are, how much we have medical potential, how many hospitals we have and on a whole series of problems we have here, we can even think about whether we need monocentre research in Croatia, given that our practice shows very much that in cases where something is monocentric it usually ends with some deviations and we think that such a type of work should always be done in at least two hospitals. We don't mean to intervene, but we think that thinking about the Ministry and those who need to think about it, I think that's pretty logical. As for this second one, it is that the issues need to be regulated by a contract between a legal person, so the clinical hospital, or the hospital, and the researcher, it is quite clear, I don't think we have much to determine, we have as the top of the ice santa, what comes into the media, and the problems in this area are certain that in practice there was more and it is certain that the contract has to determine the total costs, and then further is the execution of the job, means the institution legal person who will regulate the total costs with the contractors of what needs to be explored. As for the exception of the pharmaceutical inspection from the Ministry of Health I have personally advocated that one of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Health is supervision, overall supervision, I have repeatedly said this, the Ministry of Health must have professional and organisational supervision over everything that is being touched and what is part of health care, only in this way we can do positive processes and shifts. Therefore, we absolutely support the return of the pharmaceutical industry to the Ministry of Health. And just briefly, as far as generic drugs are concerned, as far as clinical toxicological pharmacology research is concerned, whether or not, as regards the protection of intellectual property, the arguments we just heard earlier seem to be quite the opposite. On the contrary, and for this reason we also support that part, we think that the Law is in a certain way a timely alignment with what is currently to be done in this area and we support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29215	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29216	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The key provisions laid down by this Act, which relate to the market position of the domestic pharmaceutical industry, have been discussed in Croatia for a long and loud time. The truth was much louder there somewhere beyond 2000 shortly after the 2000 elections, than it was at the beginning of this year, than it did at the beginning of this year when confirming the memos signed with the United States of America, whose content should be partly legalized by the provisions of this Law. Likewise today, when a decision is made under the urgent procedure of this Act which will significantly affect the market position of the domestic pharmaceutical industry in relation to large and strong multinational pharmaceuticals, it seems to me to be an inappropriate peace and quiet that we have in the public, since these provisions have a drastic impact on the business of our pharmaceutical industries which are truly God great and powerful, far more powerful than some in other areas of production, but which are very important for Croatia. Their position and conditions of business are also important for the entire health system, as has been said earlier, depends significantly on their situation and the price of medicines, means the total cost of health care in Croatia, and in some ways the Croatian government has a better room for manoeuvre in negotiations with domestic pharmaceuticals than with large and strong multinational companies. The Proposer warns us that this Law also fulfils the obligations of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the European Union and that the fact is justified by insisting on an urgent procedure. A little while ago, we heard in correcting my colleague Mimica's incorrect allegations that that was not the case. And I'm gonna do it again. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, the emergency procedure has absolutely no justification, as the deadline laid down in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement leaves room for two readings. In addition, I will warn you that the Resort Ministry has taken about 10 months to put these several articles of this bill to bed. I think we should finally start working differently. I think that for this job the Ministry that we hear today actually just copied some of the European Union's guidelines, that it could have done it in a much shorter time. And that we are here in the Parliament, where debates and water should have left time to at least in two readings try to clarify one doubt if they are no more, one puzzle that definitely exists in the interpretation of the guidelines of the European Union, and then our obligations to comply with these guidelines. And there is, in particular, a clear difference in what we are bound by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because we do not think that this agreement creates for Croatia at all such obligations as we have been presented through this Law and through the up-to-date presentation of Minister Hebrang. The ministry's lawyers may have spent 10 months because they are busy with other affairs, perhaps if the ministry's lawyers weren't involved in planning spectacular actions taken by pharmacists, they might be faster in preparing these for Croatia very important and crucial laws. They may then be more precise in reading and interpreting EU guidelines, reading and interpreting Stabilisation and Association Agreements. And perhaps that is why they would not release into the procedure laws that are supposed to comply with the European Union, which is why they are supposed to equalise business conditions for Croatian companies, and indeed bring them a worse position than their competitors in the European Union. I thought it might have happened by accident, so we wrote this amendment in good time, which was kind of obvious, but especially in our opening statement, we emphasized one thing that we think is the key issue of this law. It was omitted in Article 3 of the Law to protect domestic drug manufacturers from the possible manipulation of major world pharmaceutical corporations and in our law it opened the space for foreign companies to postpone or even disable the registration of generic domestic products. In order for everyone to understand us better, generic drugs are actually the imitation of the originals. They're replaceable and generally cheaper than the originals themselves. It should also be said that on generic production, precisely the success and results of our pharmaceutical houses are largely based. Although they are trying to invest a lot of money in development and research and create some new originals at the moment do not exactly have the support of the Croatian state in this direction. Although we had quite a short time to intervene in this, as I said, we have written proposals for amendments which, in a very simple and European Union, acceptably make possible manipulation impossible, and the Croatian law does indeed comply with the guidelines of the European Union. What's this about? The minister said that the existence of traffic in a country should remain as proposed by law. This would, in fact, be the condition that the original medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the provision that stands in the laws, has derivated the first foreseeable condition, that the medicinal product has been given marketing authorisation in one of the Member States of the European Union. It would therefore also define a recent Regulation on special conditions for the placing on the market of a finished medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia which is authorised for placing on the market in the European Union. It should be noted that conditioning the registration of a generic medicine, the transport of this original medicinal product on a specific territory, such as in this law, allows manufacturers of the original medicinal product to have various potential manipulations with a purpose of disposal and even to disable the registration of the generic medicinal product. The placing on the market of a new product after the expiry of this period of six years which is slightly different from that withdrawn and thereby prevents the registration of a generic medicinal product in a shortened procedure is what is possible. These manipulations are known in the European Union countries because this has already happened in some European Union member markets. For this very reason, the European Union is proposing appropriate amendments to European pharmaceutical legislation. However, we do not want to, for completely unclear reasons, and we can, for this moment, especially because we are not a member of the European Union until further notice, to protect our own domestic pharmaceutical production. Why we don't want to do this seems to me to be a key political issue. Are any days of promises, or is that perhaps the price Croatia has to pay to get some deadlines on 17.12? Is it a principled and reasoned political struggle or is it simply a condescending, unnecessarily condescending behaviour of our policy. We're not talking about the profession right now, we're talking about political terms. We don't think that's necessary. And for this reason, I will once again point to the maneuvering space that exists in politics in Croatia, which exists in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which the Croatian Government obviously does not use or does not want to use. Namely, by 1 March 2005. Croatia is obliged to protect intellectual, industrial and commercial property in a way that, I underline, is similar to the protection that exists in the European Union. A similar term that does not mean identically 100% harmonised but similar. And it is a political maneuvering space that we must take advantage of in Croatia's interest. This proposal, which introduces protection within six years and announces another amendment that will extend protection and announcement, see this in the light of the law another amendment within a very short time period that will extend the protection of foreign companies in our area not only to six but to a deadline of ten years cannot be called similar but it is a full harmonisation. I am indeed appealing here to you colleagues and colleagues from the Croatian Democratic Community to help make these misunderstandings clear. In an emergency procedure, this is not easy because these discussions will only open up additional conflicts but will not open room for a reasoned debate and the best solution for the Republic of Croatia. We are proposing an amendment and this is a delay in the application of this law until the time of accession to the European Union, as well as an amendment preventing the retroactive application of this law because retroactive application is also introduced through this law into our market space of the pharmaceutical industry. I hope I was clear to the end. I think it is indeed an important area for the Republic of Croatia, that we must try to protect the comparative advantages that our pharmaceutical industry has to offer even though it is relatively small and although it comes from a small country it should remain for a while. I appeal once again to the minister and to the Croatian government, especially the Prime Minister to accept these reasonable arguments, to accept the political struggle with the great and powerful because Croatia can. There's both strength and arguments, and there's no need for anyone to unnecessarily bend their backs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29217	Thank you very much. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Hebrang. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29218	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored ladies and gentlemen! Three arguments were made in the discussions, which are certainly required in order to explain a particular comment. First of all, as far as the deadline is concerned, why now? Dear Mr. Mimica and representatives of some clubs have expressed their skepticism as to why now that we can still negotiate with the European Union and when we do not have to pass laws quite fixed but similar, etc. It is no problem to talk to the European Union as long as we want because it is our problem and we decide when and when we want to run for the European Union. And they decide whether they accept what we have done. But there's a deadline we've been through a long time. That's the deadline from the memo. The memo accepted by this Assembly and by which we had already passed that law. That is why we are looking for an emergency procedure, not because of the European Union, but because of the memorandum on the basis of the Parliament's acceptance, we have already skipped those deadlines, overstepped. Secondly, the HSS Representatives Club is concerned that this will make it more expensive. There's no lady of honor here, unfortunately. No, the drugs will be cheaper for the Croatian insurance company. It will be cheaper because we are parallel to this law-making procedure and this is the answer to why it lasted a little longer, we have adopted a new regulation on medicines based on the drug law in which we are negotiating new prices with all drug manufacturers. Lower than the former, both for the originals and for the generics. And so far, we've signed agreements that cost medicines for next year for 300 million kuna in total. Therefore, the Croatian insurance company will have a cheaper remedy and therefore we went into parallel action and therefore we have made it a little bit difficult with this law, and we have used this time to negotiate with the domestic industry so that we can no longer protect it according to international agreements, but to give it the opportunity to put its generics into the registration process, and as we know they will be brought and completed these registration processes under the old law because no law is worth retrograde. There were still objections to the pharmaceutical inspection we're returning here to the Department of Health. There has been no inspection of the drugs at all for two to three years. This results in countless irregularities that directly endanger the health and life of the public. And what's called a spectacular action, it's the routine action of the sanitary inspection we've been carrying out for a year. And this was not the first such inspection but the twelveth in a row. And not aimed at one pharmacy but aimed at endangering people's lives. In that inspection, we found hundreds of very important and potentially dangerous drugs if they were misissued in an illegal place, in an illegal room, and we found multiple recipes to confirm that they were issued. So it's a serious crime. He's suspected of a serious crime. The evidence is excluded. Unfortunately, with police cooperation because it was the first time in the history of a sanitary inspection to defend the entrance of a sanitary inspector to a room in which he must be supervised by law. It is therefore a matter of establishing a rule of law in this area of drug trafficking, which is often unfortunately due to large profits, leading to a threat to the health of citizens and their lives due to non-compliance with the law. Profiles are ahead of citizens' interests and therefore sanitary inspection, pharmaceutical and health inspection must work intensively and protect the lives of our citizens. You can't keep a drug under the law in an illegal place or issue a drug under the law. So this is something that is absolutely the cornerstone of the security of Croatian citizens. What I'm supposed to say here is that I see it today from the press when there's already an attack on the sanitary inspection that also the pharmacy has initiated a tight procedure because of these irregular actions of certain pharmacies. So please support this. The inspections are a pillar of the rule of law. Let's not tear down those pillars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29219	Thank you very much. Correction of incorrect allegations, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29220	It is incorrect that Minister Hebrang said that a serious crime has been committed in a specific case because it is the basis of doubt, at least in his words, therefore still only on the basis of the suspicion and the criminal offences of the unauthorized placing on the market of medicines, Mr Minister for which the most minor sanction known by our criminal law until one year in prison is provided. Please, nice. And for insults and slanders, it's up to 5 years or 8 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29221	Thank you very much. It's all relative. It'd be hard for me one day in prison. Yes, now we're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29222	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I've already said everything in my presentation on behalf of the club. I would now refer to only one segment of this Act and as regards regulation as the basic purpose of this Act as regards regulation of the market in medicines and medical products. The debate here discusses the need to take care of the protection of domestic production which we know is mainly producing generic drugs and precisely because the minister said on, it will soon come into effect the regulation that will significantly cost the medicines in Croatia, and this particular story of generic medicines in Croatia that should be cheaper, and everywhere in the world are cheaper by 30%, and moreover, in our case it was not, and we have had the opportunity to get some original drugs on our market cheaper than a generic. And that's why that fear that's going to disrupt the market I don't think exists. I would like to remind you of only one such time series of health recoverys that the most benefits have just had the pharmaceutical industry and, primarily, PLIVA that had mainly in its generic drug product. I wouldn't say it again right now, but I think these measures and this rule-law that's about to enter into force are just about to introduce order into the drug market. And I'd like to say one more thing. When the Ministry of Health adopts laws, it primarily thinks about the control of three segments. One is a health care system, so those who provide services, others are sick. It's the most important thing to me, how to protect them. And the third is the pharmaceutical industry and the major drugs that are attached to the health system chain. Therefore, the Ministry of Health must primarily think about what the patient gets and what the health system gets, and only then how the pharmaceutical industry will pass. Because I'm saying that the patients would get the most then have to be under control and the health system, and this segment of drug production and the drug markets, and in that case only all the laws will, and this Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, achieve the full purpose. And that is why I repeat once again that I support this bill and I hope that the drug market in the Republic of Croatia will then be at, significantly more stable and secure for patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29223	Thank you very much. Next, Madame Representative Carmela Caparin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29224	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, the adoption of this Law is a alignment with the European Union's medicines legislation and I don't know why many colleagues are surprised, what we are doing now because if we have one common consensus of entering the European Union, then we know that we are also tasked with harmonising this legislation. Many medicines are really necessary today. They are taken and obtained in different ways from the hospital, from the doctor, from primary health care, on prescription, in sales and in other ways. I would dare say that in the Republic of Croatia, there is a pill that erupted after the supplementary health insurance, and as far as the simulation is concerned, I remember from last term that the Law was brought to full health insurance without any simulation. In the first half of last year, medicines for cardiovascular diseases increased by 21%, antibiotics by 11%, for the respiratory system 31%, for the treatment of the digestive tract 11%. The drug market is huge and needs to be regulated. If we look at pharmaceutical companies that are often protected by some, we will see the highest income from Croatian health care. The pharmaceutical industry is one of the biggest money producers in the world. So they make $400 million a year. It is up to us to keep the drug consumption as low as possible, prescribed medications as possible and the patients taken care of. We need to have a clear medical policy and a health authority that can control all of this and that has not been the case so far. Mr. Hebrang, you have recently warned that the first 20 medicines on the list of 1300 that are also the most expensive on them are spent as much as 41% of the intended money on medicines. This year in the first six months, gentlemen, 266 million 813 thousand 788 euros were spent. So, they have a familiar number. By substance in the first paragraph, imagine Lipeks, which is spent in the first 6 months of 10 million 92 thousand euros. Then the next antibiotic, Klavocin, which was spent on 6 million 451 thousand 630 euros. And the cytostatics in all that drug palette that I don't list any further, from Klavocin, Irumed, Iruzid, Klavocin, and so on are 80 sites of these cytostatics. One of them famous Taxol. So this data points to the need for permanent training of healthcare professionals to conduct international pharmacotherapy. The agency is conceived as an institution that will bring news in the drug study, registration, production, transport of medicines. He's aware of the drug trade before there's even a cure on the market. We witnessed a phaser of conflict of interest, abuses of position, some pharmacists from pharmaceutical companies receive various forms of cash-on-money to win the market and promote their medicines. This law has now financially dealt with pharmaceutical companies and hospitals. In addition, changes and regulation of the market and finished medicinal products are placed on the market without the results of toxicological, pharmacological studies and clinical trials if they prove that they are identical with the finished cure of the original manufacturer provided that the original manufacturer of the finished medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia or any European Union authorisation was placed on the market of the finished medicinal product more than d6 years ago. It is novine to introduce protection of the right of intellectualngo ownership on the basis of a morand of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States. Of course, the question is also being raised whether the Croatian pharmaceutical industry will be in an independent position because it should stop the production and planning of generic drugs because of the real possibility that original engineers protect their medicine. There is a possibility that production would have been hitched for 6 to 10 years. This would also result in drug shortages, and the Croatian pharmaceutical industry would be lost. That's why I'm really doing the cheaping of generic drugs, because then there's no sure thing like that is going to happen. I support the decision to give an opinion to the Central Ethics Committee on the acceptability of the examination plan for clinical trials in the case of multicentre studies and monocentre examinations, therefore, in the food health institution in the Republic of Croatia, with the cost of costs and fees paid to exhibitors and respondents. So far, the hospital has been a signer with pharmaceutical companies. And in the end, I really do enforce this bill because we are aware of the functioning of the drug agency we are aware of the control and business of pharmaceutical companies. Hospital business, where we've never had an insight into what pharmaceutical companies and how much money they gave for a bonus they didn't even give, as you heard. They gave certain doctors from which there were travels, educations and so on and really time we put everything under control. And this government has it in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29225	Thank you very much. Now it's Madam Representative Ruža Lelic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29226	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I encourage this proposal to amend and supplement laws and medicines and medical products. With a final draft of the law. Because I believe that the proposed changes aim to protect the safety and well-being of the subjects involved in the clinical examination of the medicinal products. And personally, I also consider it important to inform the subjects and obtain consent. they are based on informed consent, so that they do not happen if the subjects are not even aware that they are actually being subjected to an examination. All of this should certainly be guided by an ethical commission, and I therefore feel that their role in each health care institution should be strengthened. I would remind perhaps here that what is essentially an ethical commission, that it is the body under the Health Protection Act that ensures the institution's activities on the principles of ethics and delinthology. In addition to its composition it has a health care professional and a health care institution but also not a health care worker outside the institution and its appointment is determined by the Administrative Council. In addition to the ethical commission at the level of each health institution, a central ethical commission has been established. It's an independent body that we see here that counts 13 members and appointed by the minister responsible for health care. According to the proposed amendments to this law, the Central Ethics Commission accepts the means and the plan of interrogation in monocentre examinations, therefore, it is an examination when carried out only in one clinic. According to the applicable law on such an examination, it was sufficient to agree that only the ethical commission of that health institution, which then certainly created room for some possible misunderstandings. Importantly, I also believe that this definition of the contract is what we are witnessing these days that there have been inscriptions and perhaps possible abuses, for which it means defining the contracts concluded by the applicant of Ishathjeva to conduct a clinical study of the institutions where this examination will be conducted. In any event, the total costs of conducting a clinical study of medicinal products, costs and medical and other services should be determined and included in that contract. I also estimate to the good that pharmaceutical inspection is carried out to monitor the examination, production, transport quality and surveillance of advertising and the notified medicinal product. It shall mean the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. For now, it has been as repeatedly highlighted in this debate at the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, and we have seen that such an inspection has not been set up. This amendment to Article 15(1), where it is proposed that the applicant for the authorisation of the medicinal product to be placed on the market, is not obliged to attach the result to the meaning of toxicological and pharmacological and clinical trial results if it proves that the medicinal product he intends to place on the market is identical with the finished product of the original manufacturer, and that original manufacturer of the finished medicinal product has been authorised to place a medicinal product in the Republic of Croatia or one of the Member States of the European Union for more than six years. This type of registration is called one shortened procedure because it means it does not require the conduct of toxicological, pharmacological and clinical trials, which is one long and expensive procedure, and we expose the subjects to the same unnecessary risk. Such studies have already been carried out by the original manufacturer of the finished product, and under the current law, meaning still valid law, the shortened procedure could only be applied if the original producer is in agreement with the shortened procedure. So I think that even now it means it was in practice, if the original producer is not in agreement then this shortened procedure could not be applied, and I believe that many original producers did not even agree that by some more favourable procedure his medicine was put into production, or a similar drug in the process. In this way, the generic medicine is cheaper than the original, and if the market is healthy the price of one and the other medicine will fall because the reduction, and thus the cost of health care will be reduced, so I think this will require the cost of health care. Here is the institution of this given exclusion which introduces the possibility of registering generic pharmaceutical product with a shortened procedure within six years. I would also like to point out once again here that this procedure is also in the countries of the European Union from 6 to 10 years, that here we have been given this deadline for 6 years where we are still in a more favourable position and it is already pointed out that we are already implementing these decisions on a memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property and the implementation of commitments made by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and obligations under the Interim Agreement on Trade and Related Issues, as well as the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. We see here that the criminal provisions in this law are also in place. I think it's also good that a formulation is being introduced by the competent ministry responsible for health care, which removes the need for harmonisation of the law in the event of a change in structure. And let me get this straight. I consider the proposed amendments and additions to the law a positive shift. The proposed amendments have been better and more precisely formulated, and as it is partly in line with the acquiss of the European Union and with the legal acts of the Council of Europe, I support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29227	Thank you very much. Now it's Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29228	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Government and the Minister of Health and Social Care. I support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices. In particular, the 2003 Act on Medicinal Products and Medical Products needed to be completed in accordance with the need to respect the obligations made by the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights. Of course, this intervention is also a commitment to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and it is also a harmonisation of our legislation with European and in this segment. Under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we are obliged to guarantee the level of intellectual trade and industrial ownership by 1 March 2005. For this reason, it was necessary to intervene in several articles as well as in Article 15. The law on medicinal products and medicinal products provides for cases of placing on the market of the finished medicinal product. Under the applicable law, the applicant for the placing on the market of the finished medicinal product is not obliged to submit the results of either toxicological or pharmacological studies or clinical trials. According to the proposed amendment, the applicant is not obliged to apply this if it proves that the finished medicinal product is identical with the finished medicinal product of origin. On condition that the original manufacturer of the finished medicinal product has been granted marketing authorisation for the finished medicinal product more than six years ago in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, or in the area of one of the Member States of the European Union. The introduction of this provision introduces into our legislation one institute given exclusion. This is the way of placing similar medicines on the market, generic medicines that are generally much cheaper and for consumers significantly more accessible than the original medicines. Under the applicable law, the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices oversees the examination of the production, manufacture, transport of medicinal products and medicinal products. The Ministry of Health and Social Care also carries out pharmaceutical inspections on products, on the production and transport of medicinal products and medical products, which means that pharmaceutical inspectors are placed under the supervision of this ministry, or the Ministry of Health. That's how the monopoly is reduced through the agencies. The central ethical, central ethical committee shall give an opinion on the acceptability of the study plan on clinical trials whether it is a multicentre or monocentre study, but it cannot be positive without the opinion of the Ethics Commission of the Health Institute. The clinical trial of the medicinal product may only be carried out in a legal person and with which the applicant shall conclude a contract. However, the addition of this article prior to the conclusion of the contract must also be accompanied by a funding plan involving all the costs of the medical and other legal persons in which the examination is carried out. And this supplement is to greet to end the will of individual interrogators. Finally, I say once again that I support the Proposal for this Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices and that it is very transparent to conduct all pharmacology studies, biological-chemical studies and clinical trials and transparency also includes the production of medicinal products and medical materials and the placing on the market of the same. This isn't covered by some secret eye that's been closely linked to people's interest groups so this shows us a recent affair... In my decision to support this law, I was not hesitated by a report or by Mrs Antunovic, who claims that this law threatens our pharmaceutical companies. But soon thereafter, she denied herself, disproved herself because she said peace and quiet rule. So that means that our pharmaceutical companies are upset and not protected by this law, you certainly wouldn't be ruled by peace and quiet. And as for whether the lawyers at the Ministry of Health and Social Services are doing their job or doing something money like that, I think we're all legalists here, at least we should be legalists and support anyone who works legally, who makes their money legally, and whoever goes past that should deserve our conviction, not put ourselves in his protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29229	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure, 10 and 43 minutes of the Rules of Procedure, it is time for the hearing to be called on for 10 minutes. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29230	It is incorrect that a colleague of ours has stated that our pharmaceutical companies are unhappy that the government would not surely go out with this proposal. This is completely incorrect because just recently the director of our pharmaceutical company Belupo just appeared to be talking about the execution of this final bill, and in particular the provisions of Article 3 which refer to the "Data Exclusivity" Institute, which practically creates a monopoly of foreign companies, and makes it impossible to actually sell and lead to, she said, jeopardising 900 jobs specifically in our pharmaceutical company.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29231	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. First of all, I'm surprised that we didn't discuss this bill last night when we ran through the Income Tax Bill and the Financial Police Proposed Law last night. Because this Law actually belongs to that category of law, given that the Income Tax Act reduces citizens' rights, reduces their tax deductions, and the Financial Police Act poses one threat to all businessmen. This law poses a threat to the pharmaceutical industry. And it would make sense that he was arguing late last night. I am not surprised, however, that the law is proposed by emergency procedure because the emergency procedure certainly implies that there are no two readings. Well, when there are no two readings, then I can't tell the truth on two occasions, for the proponent of a very unpleasant truth about what his relationship to the domestic pharmaceutical industry is. There are two deadlines for passing a law like this. One deadline provides for a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and that deadline is on 1 March 2005 and by that deadline we still have time. Well, we have time for another reading. For the second term, the minister says, he is dictated by the Memorandum of Understanding signed with the United States. He's been ratified, the ratification papers haven't been sent. Why? Because not all preparatory acts have been passed yet, and one of them is the patent law, and the patent law has been withdrawn from the procedure since the 3rd month. Therefore, there is no sending of ratification documents until the patent law is passed. So where are we in a hurry with this law? So let's take some logical order. Let's get patent law first and then this law. We'll have time to read again. Thus, no deadlines are a condition, a real condition for this law to be adopted by emergency procedure. The reason for the emergency procedure is that it is possible to better hide the relationship to the domestic pharmaceutical industry. And that's where I ask the Ministry and ask the government, and why isn't it protecting the domestic pharmaceutical industry to the extent that it could? Why is it going under there? So what are the reasons for that? And you are the Croatian Government, so you must do everything in your power to protect domestic companies. Now, why go under that, there can be two different reasons. Is that courtship? Is that courtship towards the outside centers of power? Is this some kind of secret deal that we don't know about here, and it would be good to know or are the reasons quite prosaic, the possibility of making someone's profit? For example, in Article 3, what is the additional condition in Article 3 for the electoral age to be in traffic in the Republic of Croatia? And that only in the Republic of Croatia, and not in other European Union countries? Why limit it so much? What can happen here? It may occur to us that the manufacturer of the original medicinal product after the expiry of this product or shortly before the expiry of this 6-year period which is a condition for the registration of the generic medicinal product deliberately withdraws the original medicinal product from the market, therefore, immediately before that time limit. And then put a new drug on the market, it's slightly altered, but now it's starting to run for it. If this happens, and be careful, this has happened, it has happened in the countries of the European Union. If this happens, there is no production of a replacement medicine in the Republic of Croatia. This means that the original medicinal product must be imported, which means that someone will earn money on the original medicinal product. So, come on, the SDP Club has given you some amendments. What we're proposing in our amendments, and that's what Pliva thinks, that's what the pharmacists themselves think, that's what those whose rights and interests you should protect, not go against them. Come on, accept the amendments given by our club, and thus avoid any suspicion, any doubt of your unworthy intentions in the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29233	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I have to tell you that I gotta tell you, we didn't run through the agenda. [[Intruder: He's commenting again.]] There is no running of the agenda but we have discussed according to the points of the agenda in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So if you didn't know that, that's what I'm explaining to you now. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Veljko Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29234	I would like to say to everyone in front of the government that this is not about dishonest work, not about secrets, but really one harmonisation with legislation and the European Union and what should have been respected before it was long signed with the United States. Just to fit into a circle of very transparent, transparent ways and behaviors in a modern world where we tend to get in as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29235	Thank you very much. I apologize to Agent Plesha, we have a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go, Mr. Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29236	Thank you very much. Inaccurately, Mr. Stazic said that the Financial Police Act poses a threat to all businessmen, so this Law poses a threat to all patients. It's probably just a threat for you because you taught these businessmen to work in a way that they're afraid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29237	Let's move on with the debate. Mr. Representative Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29238	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. I will begin my debate with a rhetorical question, and it says, is Croatia disowning its own generic industry? We are aware that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia must necessarily be brought into line with European Union legislation and that this is one of the necessary preconditions for full membership in the European Union. However, according to the example of the new Member States of the European Union, such as Hungary, Slovenia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia should also do so, taking account of its own economic interests while ensuring adequate medical care or availability of medicinal products. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices in Article 3 does not reflect the above-mentioned position of the Croatian Government. I will take an example of one, or the other, of the size of the pharmaceutical industry in Croatia, which is "Belupo". So, the plans of "Belupa" have already been adopted for the registration of medicines and include their portfolio for the next five and ten years, respectively, the development of the "Belupo" factory. They are based on existing legislation and, accordingly, the development of some of the new generic medicines "Belupo" is already under way. In ideal cases, the duration of development and registration of generic medicinal products may be completed over a period of at least three years. The above mentioned Article 3 of the Law without transitional provisions on the postponement of the application of an instrument given exclusion which would allow for at least the completion of the projects launched to be a blow to the development of "Belupa". Namely, "Belupo" 80% of the products produced sell on the Croatian market where it employs more than 900 workers. The aforementioned legal provision would require "Belupa" to transfer a significant part of its business to another of the European Union countries through its own related companies, which would certainly have a negative impact on the results of the business, especially the company in Croatia. On the other hand, it is difficult for us to accept the fact that, in Article 3 of the bill, for the generic application of the finished drug, the originator must be placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia. In other words, we are already witnessing it today that large world pharmaceutical companies do not need to have an interest in placing their medicine on the Croatian market of 4 and a half million inhabitants. "Belupo" as a genetic company, a generic company, a pardon, due to this legal provision and in that case will not be able to register or place on the market a generic parallel of this medicine and much longer than the period provided for by the institute given by Sivitya, because the legislator did not provide a solution for such cases. Therefore, with the inevitable issue of treatment for Croatian patients. In addition, the abovementioned formulation of Article 3 of the Law is not harmonised, not in accordance with European guidelines No 83 and its amendments which do not require that the medicinal product is placed on the territory of a Member State, but that it has been registered or registered in one of the Member States of the European Union. Experience from EU member states shows that originators unfortunately abuse their position, so after the deadline of the day, Sivita withdraws the registration of the medicinal product in a country. Even then, a generic company could not register or place its generic parallel to the originator medicine on the market, which repeatedly presents a blow to patients because it prevents them from being available. I also note that, in the light of the changes to the laws of the day, exclusion is identified with the protection of intellectual property, which it does not represent, but ensures additional exclusion, i.e. a monopoly of originators on the market. It is sufficient to note that the application of Sivitiya is mandatory at the time of accession to the European Union, and that today's members of the European Union and those who became so on 1 May of this year, Poland, Hungary and Slovenia are looking for a delay in the application of that institute for a period of 15 and 10 years, respectively. For example, Poland has delayed the application of the institute to three years, but since it became a member of the European Union. And speaking of the experiences other countries have had in this process of joining and harmonising their legislation, then it should be said that the governments of those countries seem to have been more successful in their negotiations. For example, Slovenia said that the reference country is Slovenia or any Member State of the European Union. The Czech Republic also said that the reference country of the Czech Republic or any other Member of the European Union. Slovakia also, Poland also, Hungary also, and Croatia takes as a reference country only, only Croatia. And as I said, the application of the extension of patent protection in Poland was delayed until the moment Poland entered the European Union. And now I'm asking a question, what will happen, for example, to the new factory that Dr Ivo Sanader opened this year in Koprivnica factory "Belupa"? Will Doctor Ivo Sanader come and close the factory door just as solemnly? Because what we are discussing today and Article 3 of this law will motivate the domestic producers of generic drugs to make their production, to move their patent protection to the European Union. What kind of message is that to entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia? Is it worth producing in Croatia, or is it more worth establishing wholesale drugs in Croatia and doing wholesale and trade in original drugs? If the original drugs are really cheaper, then there's no need for us to have a pharmaceutical industry at all, then we just shut down pharmaceutical companies that operate and buy originals on the world market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29239	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29240	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed Secretary of State, gentlemen of MPs and MPs. As so far as I am here, my speakers have made a very detailed and very good statement about this law, because many of them are somewhere in their business, calling family with this issue, so I will not, in fact, sublime my imaginary exposure to extenso very briefly. So this drug law was passed in 2003. There was a need for his further dorado. That's it. The reasons they are are to comply with the provisions of European Union legislation, then some international agreements on the protection of intellectual property rights, which is also said several times. The goal, so we've heard a lot about it, is that generic medicine can be placed on the market without application or without the results of clinical trials being applied. This is simply because for the first time, it is introduced into our legislation by the Institute of Exclusion and thus enables the application of the memorandum of understanding between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the protection of intellectual property rights. Furthermore, it's very important to point out here, but before I do, I'm going to say something about just being forgiven for the elemental treatment of patients to so-called. It's standard and it's different through what's called. clinical trials. This is one higher level of treatment for patients and this way is reserved exclusively for clinics, clinical hospital centres. It is important here to mention that it was really necessary from close proximity to this, that monocentre studies, therefore studies commissioned in one clinic and that his ethical commission discuss it, take responsibility for everything, and if it is multicentre studies of what is in Croatia of course such, then it was followed by some multicentre, or commission that was at Ministry level. Now everything goes to this central ethical circle, to an ethical commission that will in a very momentive way be quality, but with the protection of both the client and the interrogator, and most of the patients in whom it is being examined. Therefore, it is by my judgment one necessity that should have happened. What else happened to this change? That the financial obligations of applicants have been specified in this context, because so far we have also witnessed the recent writing of our press on the phaser ordered studies, then our respected doctors, etc. Therefore, in order to avoid all of this together here are highly precise financial obligations in carrying out these clinical trials. And finally, very important, and that's what we've already heard several times, that pharmaceutical inspection supervision that is terribly important and that is foreseen by the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices has not actually worked, is not set up. And that is why it is proposed that these jobs continue to be carried out, being carried out under the Ministry of Health. Of course, I personally advocate this proposal to adopt. And somewhere colleagues who say what a haste, what this, what we didn't want there, we wanted in Europe not only today and with this law, even before. So, if you want to get on the bike, you have to dance, otherwise nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29241	Thank you very much. The word has Mr. Agent Tonino Picula, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29242	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I really agree with what the predecessor colleague said, namely, there is no doubt that the Republic of Croatia must be one step closer to the standards of the developed and democratic world, with each act adopted by the Parliament, whose part we want to be. And one indicator of the seriousness of this intention certainly establishes mechanisms of protection and intellectual property, i.e. the rights to be derivated from it. However, the preparation of companies and the timing of implementation of international obligations is not irrelevant. Good preparation and real timing saves money, saves or opens jobs in sectors affected by change. Today's debate is actually seen as a continuation of the process of ratification of the memorandum of understanding, of the protection of the intellectual property rights between Croatia and the United States, which was signed in 98. It is a matter of repeating the Agreement that initiated the amendments to the existing Law on Medicinal Products, it is also about the Treaty not only of particular importance for bilateral relations between Croatia and the United States, but also of a contract that has a major impact on the future of domestic pharmaceuticals. In March of this year, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Mr. Andrija Hebrang said that ratification documents would be exchanged with Washington when the stability of the domestic market and certain compensation mechanisms were ensured for domestic producers. So it would be good to know to what extent today Croatia is producing medicines and medical products and supplying the domestic market, indeed balanced and ready for these new yet very restrictive institutes. Another important question was whether the Government had prepared amendments to the patent law, which as well as this Law in question had to be in the parliamentary procedure before the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding, on the protection of intellectual property rights. In March, I would like to remind myself of the parliamentary procedure of withdrawing both accompanying laws, which was contrary to Article 19(2) of the Memorandum. In the debate, I asked the government's representative not to rush the confirmation, but to simulate all not only the financial effects of applying the memos to the pharmaceutical industry in Croatia before continuing the ratification process. Some serious issues have been raised in public at the time, such as, after confirmation in the Assembly, in a particularly privileged position, not only of American pharmaceuticals, but of all other companies registered in the United States? In Croatia, however, not all pharmaceutical companies are in the same position. They don't have the same ownership structure. They're not doing the same on international capital markets, so they don't have the same perspective. The strongest pharmaceutical company in us Pliva pays the most tax in the United States anyway. Pliva is earning more than 5 billion kunas by selling generic drugs, as 80% of Croatia's market for generic drugs is trading. As in the discussion of the Memorandum of Understanding, so today, in the debate on amendments to the Law on Medicinal Products, the central issue or one of the central issues is the introduction of the Institute "Data exclusivity:" or our market exclusion. This is a guarantee to the original drug manufacturers that they will have an exclusive on our market of 6 years starting from the date of registration of the medicinal product. For most interpretations, this would mean that generic medicines less expensive than the originals could not occur quickly during that period. The information works, the competition of original and generic drugs in the first year on the market lowers their price between 20% and 30%. Which is a reasonable savings to health funds. It is also estimated that the extension of market exclusion for a leading drug for only one year in only one Member State of the European Union creates a cost of 100m euros for a health care system. International obligations and the obligation to adapt the domestic pharmaceutical industry could be balanced, so that market exclusion is calculated from the date of first registration in any of the Member States of the European Union and that it cannot last longer than the duration of the first patent on the territory of the Republic of Croatia covering the active ingredient contained in the medicinal product. Unfortunately, more serious simulations about the effects of the memoirs and this Law have not been offered by our pharmaceutical industry either. The public was only informed about the concern of certain domestic factories, about the safe decline in production and the loss of the market in favour of those who originally produced and registered. However, from the domestic drug industry, estimates come that such laws have cut the sword for our pharmaceutical industry. On the one hand, the planning of generic drugs would be halted because of the possibility of patenting the original. On the other hand, the original manufacturer may not patent his product at all. Thus, patients would lose their medicine and the Croatian pharmaceutical industry would be lost. It is also argued that it would be unfair to allow the re-getting of patents and protection of manufacturers who have previously failed to protect products in Croatia and are protected abroad. For example, this year the patents of 35 leading medicines, some of which may not be patented in Croatia, would give them the opportunity to do so. Generic drugs could thus be produced anywhere in Europe except possibly in our country where production would be hitched five, six years if the drugs were patented in our country. However, if there are no more precise studies of the impact of such laws on the domestic market, this does not mean that there is no projection of interested foreign factors. In fact, the influential lobbyist group of Farms that protects the interests of pharmaceutical industry in the United States in the State Department report estimates that the economy of the United States loses between $35 million and $50 million annually because of the inconsistencies of international contracts in Croatia, with an expected increase in losses following our country's entry into the European Union. This is a conservative assessment because other analyses talk about as much as $200 million in losses. Therefore, the implementation of this law as it stands out for reasons may not require the provision of resources in the state budget but it is absolutely certain that its effects will have consequences for domestic drug manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29243	Thank you very much. I am notifying the members of the Legislative Committee that the chairman of the Committee, Florian Boras, has scheduled the 29th session of the Legislative Committee to be held at 12 o'clock at Josip Jelačić's Hall (Centar) on the agenda of the call you received. Thank you very much. Next, Mr. Agent Neven Mimica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29244	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs! By passing this bill, old sins and new ambitions will come to us, and the truth will be confirmed that everything is coming back and that everything is being paid. The old sin committed HDZ's Matešina Government in 1997 when it wanted to favour the United States in negotiations in the Investment Protection Treaty and in negotiations on Croatia's accession to the World Trade Organisation. Then, in return for not exactly successful trade and interests, she signed an early obligation to protect the parties in this case from Croatian producers of cheaper generic versions of these drugs for another five years after the expiry of the patent protection of the original drug. I say it is premature that the extended protection of powerful pharmaceutical companies at that time was not part of our obligations to join the World Trade Organisation and it was not even part of the arrangement with the European Union. Considering all this and wanting to protect the interests of our pharmaceutical industry and facilitate the business of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance and wishing to extend the maximum time in which generic drugs of domestic production will be made available to Croatian patients by Racan's coalition government during her entire term of office, she has postponed proposing to the Croatian Parliament a ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding with the United States that regulated the issue. The memo was finally ratified months ago. And then this year we were caught up with our new ambitions to join the European Union. It has been shown that the price of accession to the Union in this part of extended protection of the interests of the original drug manufacturers is no less than that of a memorandum that regulates relations with US pharmaceutical companies. Moreover, the European Union rules require extended waiting for generic medicinal products to be placed on the market for six months and six years to ten years after the expiry of patent protection depending on the technological category of medicinal product. In the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union in 2001, we also negotiated a way of harmonising Croatian rules in the field of protection of intellectual property rights, but no specific obligations in the field of extended protection of producers of original pharmaceutical products are mentioned in this agreement. We have been able to agree on the obligation to bring by 1 March 2005 our rules on the protection of intellectual property rights, meaning all the general rules on the protection of intellectual property rights, to a level similar, not entirely but similar to that existing in the European Union. Therefore, the obligation applies to the entire package of intellectual property and not specifically to one of its smaller parts that regulates the placing on the market of generic drugs of domestic production. If we do not comply with this detail of the total package of intellectual property protection until 1 March 2005, we will continue to have enough arguments to prove that the package is similar to the European package as a whole. So, we have left room to fully comply with the deadlines of extended protection of manufacturers of the original medicines just before joining the European Union. In addition, almost all countries that have recently joined the European Union have done so, and no one has been hasty to comply with pharmaceutical regulations that will damage the domestic pharmaceutical industry and domestic drug users. And now we come up with the most important material question of how much it costs and who will pay the price of this bill. In addition to this fundamental question comes a whole series of other additional questions that I fear we have been offered very few answers. Let's take it in a row. First question, how much our pharmaceutical industry costs extended patent protection of original drugs. The government did not offer any answer as if it did not matter to her, and it felt that it would not matter to the Parliament either. There are no words or figures on the additional costs that Pliva, Belupo or HZZO will have on account of this law. But for me, that is absolutely not an irrelevant question, and I expect and expect the government to get a calculation of the costs of the application of this law. To get the right picture, I recall that Pliva, when the former government asked her in 2002 for an assessment of the increase in investment in research, or for an estimate of the cost of producing generic drugs, because of this extended protection of original drugs, then Pliva told the Government that there is no accurate calculation yet, but that these additional costs would be calculated in hundreds of millions of dollars as they were in other comparable countries and that the higher price would have to be borne by both producers and the health system. Now no longer mentioning any figures in the government's explanation as if all of this was a completely free and financially neutral operation, and it certainly isn't. However, there is another side to this issue, the consumer, the consumer, who should be interested citizens of medicines and the HZZO, or the state. I don't know why, but it seems to me that the way out of this situation is the government is trying to seek in a way that Croatian patients, of course, pay only slightly lower prices of generic drugs compared to the price of the originals, and that despite the negotiations on the reduction of domestic medicines with domestic producers, it retains a relatively small margin that exists in Croatia between the price of generic and original medicine and this margin is significantly lower than in most other countries. Therefore, it is not impossible to assume that the Government, Pliva and Belupo have agreed that the HZZO does not push too much down on the prices of generic domestic production drugs, so that neither Pliva nor Belupo now mention hundreds of millions of dollars in costs due to this law. And of course that would only mean one thing. The price of adjustment to the US Memorandum and regulations of the European Union will not go to the burden of profit or extra profit of the pharmaceutical industry but will be paid by the Croatian citizen, the consumer of medicines, either directly by paying a higher price of generic drugs than objectively possible either indirectly through the retention of the higher contribution of HZZO than objectively necessary. I'd like to hear if this is the right answer to the question of who will pay the price of passing this law. With all this already mentioned, I would like to propose answers and solutions to some additional questions that are being opened here. Could we have further extended the time until the application of this additional protection of foreign producers of the original medicinal products began? I claim that we have until the date of Croatia's membership of the European Union. That wouldn't lead to any new problems with the United States because we've already paid off using the signed memo, and the sanctions for that are already being imposed on us by the United States. And as far as the European Union is concerned, as I have already said, we have arguments that we are doing well to achieve the similarity of the solution for the overall protection of intellectual property rights, and that full compliance in this small segment of protection of producers of original medicines will be achieved until the entry into membership as other candidate countries have done. Therefore, the SDP Club also proposed an amendment which would apply the amended Article 15. The law postponed until the date of Croatia's entry into EU membership. Furthermore, the proposal for the law of this key Article 15 on the second condition for determining the start of a 6-year extension of protection should state that it runs not only from the moment the original medicinal product has been placed on the market in Croatia but also from the moment of placing on the market in one of the Member States of the European Union. This double definition was used under the first conditions of obtaining marketing authorisation either in Croatia or in the European Union, and that is also part of the European Union pharmaceutical rules. The next question is how to protect the production of those generic drugs whose production has already started in Croatia. I think that with the amendment that we have also proposed we have solutions to also very clearly protect this production. With all these additional proposals, the price of adjustment can be somewhat reduced to EU pharmaceutical regulations and shows that there is a way to rationalise the European Union’s total cost of approximation through a responsible approach and reflection. This brings us closer to concrete evidence that the overall long-term benefits of Croatia's entry into the European Union will be greater than the long-term costs despite some unfortunately I have to say to unfounded and incorrect analyses from the Croatian National Bank and the IMF mission in Croatia about the short-term deficit since Croatia's entry into the European Union. It is a shame to see that the Ministry of European Integration is also uncritically taking over and transferring such wrong analyses, which only supports and feeds Euroscepticism, and does not contribute to its reduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29245	Thank you very much. And as the last in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29246	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So let me have a few thoughts about these changes and additions to this law. We've actually heard a lot from the predecessors in this debate. I would refer to this section relating to compliance with the legislation, legislation of the European Union or to the obligations that the former government and the former governments have made and my personal thinking regarding not seeing in these proposed amendments and additions in the section relating to the application of the Memorandum of Understanding on the protection of intellectual property rights concluded between the Republic of Croatia and the United States, which fulfils the obligation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and of the temporary agreement on trade and related issues, in fact, nothing disputed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of course for putting the finished product on the market. What's the matter with the proposed amendment? That it applies to those finished medicinal products placed on the market or to a finished medicinal product that is identical to the medicinal product for which the original manufacturer had already received approval, for placing on the market more than 6 years ago. In the Republic of Croatia or in some Member States of the European Union. And that finished medicine was placed on the market in the Republic of Croatia. So in this compliance with the legislation and with previous commitments, I see nothing really controversial. Furthermore, these amendments and additions to the law regulate the supervision of the examination, production, transport, quality of advertising of the medicinal product. What do we have in this section now? We have the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices whose jurisdiction this particular surveillance was put in two years ago. However, what was controversial about this surveillance was to be carried out by a pharmaceutical inspection but it has not yet been set up to this day, or it has not functioned. And of course these changes and additions suggest returning the pharmaceutical inspection to the health ministry's jurisdiction. And I also don't see anything really controversial here because the pharmaceutical inspection as such is that it didn't work in the part that we expected or what the need is in the Republic of Croatia or in the part of the study of the production, transport or advertising of medicines. As far as the Central Ethics Commission is concerned, it has so far given an opinion on multicentre studies. What is a newspaper, or what is proposed to give an opinion on monocentric studies, and it would agree with one of my predecessors who actually puts it under question whether this monocentre examination is conducted in one health institution, in fact whether it is a good solution and I think that there are major problems and that this monocentre examination should be put under question, and that, in fact, as far as this part is concerned, multicentre studies conducted in several health institutions should be a rule, and monocentre surveys that rules of such an examination should be put under question and well elaborated. In this regard, in fact, this last part of the amendments and additions, which speaks of the contracting of applicants, and regarding the examination, clinical trials of medicinal products and health institutions, and of course there was and still has a considerable problem and is related to the financing of these clinical trials, where individuals have benefited greatly without the health care institution having not only had financial benefit but also had no control of this particular clinical trial. These amendments and additions suggest that this relationship is defined in detail and ultimately I think that such amendments and additions of this law should be accepted and fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29247	Thank you very much. Does he want a representative of the government? It's final. Here you go. The violation of Ms. Ingrid Antičević Marinovic's business.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29248	Mr. Vice-President, the provision of Rule 208 of our Rules of Procedure, which provides, in its paragraph 1, for the chairman to give the representatives a word in the order they applied for. This didn't happen to me, Mr. Vice President, for the first time, but I'm inclined to question myself rather than you, the one who finds himself at the chair table. I'm not here how I had to report before I got signed up or had my applications. But it didn't happen to me either. Here's the other day, our colleague Opacic happened that you had to take her application out of the basket. But at least she was reported. So there's no evidence here that I signed up because of me now you haven't even called. Of course it's... now the possibility to take away MPs in this way too. Because we don't guarantee that if we surrender that we'll be enrolled and that's why we'll be called. And then I would suggest that, really, with our application to the future, we have to ask and confirm that we applied, in order to counter this case so that it never happens to anyone else again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29249	Madam MPs. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken, and you may not have submitted your application. Nor can you prove to yourself that you have given her up. And as far as the basket is concerned, there's a commission check. Don't make every single thing you can think of into purpose. You didn't give up, I won't believe you for any reason. On the contrary, on the contrary. You have not registered you have not received a word, no Rules of Procedure have been broken and do not do this again because you will receive a warning. Here, which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29250	Same. Mr. Vice President, you can't claim that I didn't turn it in, as I can't prove to the av now that I gave it up. But there were colleagues who saw me fill her out here and teach her along with the other two applications and just yesterday. And the other day, you've been working out Mrs. Opacic's application cards. But I'm not even insisting on it right now, I'm just making a statement in the future that I submitted my application. And then we'll solve these dilemmas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29251	Madam representative, for the second time, you have abused the rise and the violation of the Rules of Procedure. You have not submitted your application, because here Mrs. Secretary is the plenary session not only I, therefore, according to all the rules that you can bow down to the chairman, and to the secretary of the plenary session. Because the second time you have completely unfoundedly raised a plate for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore give you a warning. Ma'am, you've been warned. Let's move on. The final word on the occasion of this point has state secretary Mr. Veljko Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29252	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs. Indeed, in front of the government, I can say that with this qualified law, our industry will not be damaged but is entering a truly fair game market. It will not be unfairly maimed, nor will it be discriminated against, but we must go into a circle of behavior that makes our future. I am surprised now that I am asking a question, and in this case, Mr Mimica, who is actually a pioneer and who is really in the fresh memory, has fought very hard to get into the European Community as soon as possible, which means respect for certain specific provisions. Clearly, somewhere there's a price, but there's going to be a lot more profit when we get into that group of people where we are and a historic place. There are no elements of such that there will now be one fracture of the domestic industry. It takes years and years to digest a generic cure, if we're honest, if we make it synthesized. I don't know from which side, perhaps from a less developed country. That's why there's the Ministry of Health and the agency that needs to work, the inspectors of the pharmaceutical industry who have to look after the quality of the drugs. And so we know that you're really right when you talk about giving us the originals are almost the same as the Gerneric medications as these final version of the copy. Unfortunately, that was the situation. I'm surprised the situation isn't so constant before, we've actually managed this year's domestic industry to adapt to the ashi needs and that these prices really follow the world prices of generic drugs. We had much more, only in these last negotiations did we admit that we were right. And indeed We have reduced so much of the expenditure of those who are on the consumption of medicines, and that the medicines may be as accessible to our citizens as possible. About this newspaper, the Ethics Commission is multicentre, monocentrely, that's a lot of it already, and we see that it's both consent and full transparency, transparency on that segment. But this is also proof that our health care is well developed and that the well-respected pharmaceutical industry from the world wants to confirm its values in the investigation of medicines. The medicines that are used worldwide are here completely in the global world, and we are truly recognized by these values. Some small non-transparency with this law will now be irregularized and we will be even more successful in this. Here's the government staying on these proposals and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29253	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. We're moving on. I'm closing the debate, of course. The decision will be a subsequent vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29254	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on medicinal products and medicinal products. Emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 211. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm asking Vice-President Andri Hebrang. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29255	It is not accepted because it is a variant that is in accordance with European Parliament directives in law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29256	Since there is not one member of the Club of the SDP or president of the Ivica Racan Club, there is not one member of the Club in the assembly. We should vote. Who's up for that amendment. No one. The amendment didn't go through. the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29257	It is also not accepted because it implies setting a deadline that would include medicinal products already under registration, and according to the Constitution there is no retrograde action. The law is therefore, it is already included in substance, so it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29258	Since the amendment by Ivica Racan and no one from the SDP Club is proposed, there is no one in the assembly. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's for him? No one. I find that the amendment has not passed. Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please engage. Please, we can vote here. Score. I find that, unanimously with 79 votes, the Law amending and supplementing the laws on medicinal products and medicinal products in the text is proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29259	We move to point 29, - Final bill on taking and transplanting works of the human body for treatment purposes, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 111; Proposer of Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. Article 155 to 157 of the Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health. You received the reports at the session, would the proposing representative like to take an additional explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Velimir Bozikov State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29260	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, one law that not only confirms that we have already agreed with many European laws but also a law that confirms our abilities and the development of our medicine. We really do not lag behind the world here, but at last there are no organs that can not be transplanted in Croatia. We're seeing more and more successful liver transplants, and the kidneys and some and other organs so far, I'm not going to mention. This law indeed has nothing more valuable or noble than giving part of itself, or, in this case, something our loved one or man for his life to determine that his body parts can mean an extension of life to his fellow citizen. And also unrelentingly improve the quality of his life. All this procedure is truly elaborated with a legislative and ethical aspect so that we will not be a failure, God forbid abuse. Yet it was not in our country, there was debated in the first reading of possible trade, it was completely excluded by our law, but somewhere we had a lot of these good remarks we had installed and indeed there was during the first reading a great harmonisation was all MPs and there was no expecting because it really was a very universal law for the benefit of all our citizens and world well-being. One thing we have complemented that I would just point to, is that question of a person with the necessary needs in a case that has no vision and who are deafer and in these situations how they can demonstrate this universal right to give part of their body, or to contain that right. We predicted this when we first read through the notebook, so we realized that it was really complicated to give such a person a statement in front of the public notebook. They can do so according to this new proposal in public notebooks, but we have given one simpler option, it is that with their doctor general medicine where otherwise these people go to their checks, controls like all citizens, that they can now show their wish in front of two witnesses, we predict it in law because it is... law, that they do not want to give part of their body in the event of death for the purpose of transplanting. With that, they are fully equalized with all other citizens. And yet we are in one place, that death must be determined by a three-member medical commission, and the findings of death are clear, and that is so very well worked out, that those persons who find death should practically be in no professional interest to call it that, because it must be neutral and make an independent decision. Here's how much I thought I'd fill out, or these few notes, which would be qualitatively new under this law that's now ahead of the second reading. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29261	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Do they want committees? The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, President Marko Turic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29262	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, esteemed MPs and MPs. At the 21st meeting of the Committee held on 30 November 2004, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health discussed the Final Proposal for a Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment. The Committee discussed the law as the parent body in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Following the opening explanation of the committee's representatives, the Committee's members expressed satisfaction with the fact that a significant part of the comments made by this Committee in the broad discussion mentioned in the first reading was adopted and incorporated into the text of the final draft law. This primarily refers to a national waiting list found to be being led to the Ministry of Health. In this way it is highlighted in the debate, stricter control is possible to regularly update and transparency of the waiting list, thus achieving objectivity in the distribution of tissues and organs. The debate reiterated the need to further educate and raise the level of social awareness by increasing the number of donors and transplanted bodies. After a brief discussion, the members of the Committee proposed unanimously to the Croatian Parliament for the adoption of the Law on the collection and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29263	Thank you very much. Do the other committees want, presidents, representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Drago Prgomett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29264	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think we can all agree on one finding that is well known, which speaks of the number of organs collected from the dead for transplants really talking about the civilizational degree of a country and the scale of the country's development. I began my stand and last time with this sentence, however, with a certain suspicion of our civilizational level of development in view of the number of transplants, however, I must admit that several facts since then have brought far more optimism into this problem. The number of donated and transplanted bodies in recent years has been really growing, and even this leap has been progressive between these two readings when it comes to this law. Secondly, we have before us this law, which does not simply intend to bring our legislation into line with the European Union, or the laws of the European Union, but rather lay down clear criteria of medical and legal practice, or bring legal certainty to both the donor and the organ recipient. And thirdly, it is certainly worth pointing out, the considerable resources that the Ministry of Health planned for the budget for the next year precisely for the organ transplant project and the exclusion of one part of this process is the exploitation of organs outside the limit system, which relieves the normal functioning of hospitals, and supports this project. It should certainly not in particular be stressed that organ transplants of exceptional national interest are not only scientific, professional, ethical and professional but also financial. For comparison, the price of one kidney transplant is almost three times cheaper than the price of haemodialysis. In addition to the legislation and all those projects and which are part of the work of the Ministry of Health which we can freely call the fundamental role of the health system, they are of little importance and so on. activities outside the health system, above all, we think of the impact of public change and of the media. With this law, I would like to remind you that this law is not the first law to speak of this issue in this House. I would like to remind you of the resolution to encourage organ transplants from 99th and the conclusion of the 45th session of the Committee on Labour, Social, Care, for health care from 2002 concerning the problem of organ transplants. In addition to the legislation without public support, a shift will not be made in the process of transplanting an increase in the number of transplanted organs. The transplant process must be clear to us all, always starts and ends in public. Citizens are mobile forces and fundamental benefactors, and I therefore call for a reminder of the importance of prominent public figures to be involved in a project to support organ transplants, primarily politicians and health professionals. I will draw attention only to this second part, because a clear view of healthcare professionals over this problem or around this project would certainly crack those doubts and fears that exist in a certain number of citizens related to the transplant process. The media. The role of the media is very important in the process of supporting transplants as a public national and human process. Finally, the value of this law is that it breaks or reduces certain contradictions that are always present in the public when it comes to organ transplants. The first of them is to be exclusively rich and famous on the list. However, according to this Transplant List Act, they must also be public. The principle of fairness of the requirement that no one can be placed on these lists either on discriminatory or on other requirements, but on immunological and clinical facts must be the only criteria as to how to set lists which, as I said, must be public. Another very common question that ordinary citizens ask, if an accident occurs, and I am a potential donor whether doctors will try to save my own life. First, the teams that are regulated by this Law and the transplanting teams are completely separated in order to avoid abuse, over-interest in the truth, and on this side is respected this requirement that there are different teams. One for the establishment of death, the other for the implantation and the third for implantation, which is regulated by a special member of this Act. The fear of the authorities being sold, abuse is almost impossible because it is at the same time teamwork, as I have already said, of a number of experts and other staff. It is also not possible to take account of the procedures for the disposal of storage and transport where this procedure needs to be kept secret, especially when we speak, when religious transplants, but Article 7 of this Law speaks very clearly of this problem. Second, a question that can also be heard often or better said by ignorance that can be encountered is related to the attitude of religion. There is hardly any religion in the world that prohibits transplants, and even those religions that prevent and prohibit blood transfusions do not prevent or prohibit organ transplants. It may be good for us as a predominantly Catholic country to recall the attitude of the Catholic Church contained in the words of Pope John Paul II. how it is necessary to encourage organ transplants from the brain dead to help preserve the life of incurable patients. And as he says, "to give without compensation a part of his own life for the health and well-being of another person, that is, everything that can serve the living, sin is to be buried." The Croatian Democratic Community Club, in support of the adoption of this Act, appreciates the adoption by the applicant of a series of amendments and suggestions that could be heard in the first reading, also supports all the objectives, measures, activities of the Ministry of Health in implementing the programme of increasing the organ of donation, i.e. transplants. Furthermore, we call on the Ministry of Health to continue the same projects that want to enable media and other public knowledge, further education of the staff involved in the transplant process as well as interventions in infrastructure facilities, and cooperation with other ministries and especially with international communities in order to increase the number of organ exchanges with other countries. For these reasons, given what has been done so far, this is an opportunity for us to express our deep gratitude to families who have so far been given their generous and noble permission to allow the lives and health of a large number of patients from the time of death, calling for the overcoming violence of the culture of death, the organ donation culture to become a recognizable feature as part of the general culture of the life of all Croatian citizens. For this reason, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29265	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you on behalf of the President of the Committee on Finance and State Budget, Mr Sime Prtenjača, scheduled a committee session today on 2 December at the Chamber of John Mažuranic at 13:30, hall 84. Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29266	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The final draft of the law incorporates certain observations made in the first reading and from the ranks of opposition MPs, although this is not explained. It is of particular importance to me that several of our opinions are embedded in the Final Bill, although it has obviously become a practice for the Proposer to even accept certain opinions of opposition advocates or clubs to avoid it in an explanation on the basis of which the thinking is incorporated into the Law. However, the 2 remarks I made in the first reading were not incorporated into this Law nor was the answer given at that time, so I will repeat not for myself personally but because I believe that this could improve and encourage the citizens of Croatia to make as many decisions as possible to donate the organs. I warned then, I warn you now, and this is Article 28, that health institutions that are to be running and requesting a certificate for abortions are nowhere intended to be compensated for these increased, objectively increased costs in regular funding. The fact is that the displantation of parts of the human body, especially if it increases year after year, is an objective cost of the hospital that should be settled from the existing limited monthly or annual budgets of the hospital. So if we want to stimulate health care professionals, doctors, in particular that function of the coordinator that is being introduced in Article 30, then it would be correct for all institutions that will request this certificate because they have technical and personnel conditions, we say that we will pay them an increase in costs after they have obtained the certificate. The average price of the plantation should be calculated and by the number of partial or total allocations carried out subscribe to those costs. Secondly, Article 32 re-emerges or introduces obligations to all healthcare professionals, and I quote: "To promote organ donation". I don't think this word "promising" is adequate in the subject that we're talking about and that the subject is either an expression or an obligation of education, counselling is far more acceptable than promiscuity. I leave it to the Government's representative whether these two suggestions will be accepted and I did not go with the amendment and I believe that this law should be passed for two reasons. First, in this area we are still applying some of the legislation from the former state, which is almost incredible but true. And secondly, the need for organ transplants for Croatia is still high even though the number of implants has increased in recent years. In the last year, according to the data I have available, 73 kidneys, 8 lizards, 28 livers, 9 hearts were transplanted, and for bone marrow I failed to obtain the data. There are now thousands of patients on the waiting list for kidney transplants, and this year's program envisioned 90 transplants. There are 20 patients on the waiting list for heart transplants, the annual program predicts 8 implants. There are 60 patients on the waiting list for liver transplants, the annual programme predicts 33. I couldn't find any data on the lungs, but there are 10 patients on the waiting list, and the annual program predicted 8. For bone marrow transplants, about 300 patients and corneal transplants, as well as 300 patients. So that's the data, when we see the waiting list of the annual plan, it's visible that we still have to make great efforts to increase people who decide to donate organs, but probably also introduce more and more general hospitals that will have a certificate for implantation because there's no transplants. However, what I find very problematic are the provisions of Articles 22 and 23 and that I am not misunderstood. There are countries in Europe that have solved the issue of donation in a way that respects the will of a previously expressed desire or the willingness of every citizen to be a donor. So it was with expressions of willingness or desire that someone wanted his organs or parts of his body to be used for transplanting. This bill goes the other way and regulates only one who has made a statement that he does not want to be a donor is not considered a potential donor. There are such models in Europe and the world. I'm not saying he's a bad apriori, but I have to remind you of these provisions that mean something in practice. So some Croatian citizen who decides to oppose the use of part of his body and body for the purpose of transplanting and treating must give a written statement to the primary health care doctor, the doctor must deliver this list to the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health must include him in the list of non-gifters which is a professional secret. Let's simulate the situation that on Friday at midnight there's a tragedy and hospital x has a potential donor and should execute even a total transplant of all the organs that are, which means that the hospital will wait until the ministry starts working to carry out the check. If not, tell me in which article it is written that it is not. Secondly, this topic is still in part of the Croatian taboo issue that is not wanted, dared, or unable to talk because there is not enough data and facts, we wanted to admit it or not. But that problem exists objectively. Let's go back to this case I mentioned. Whether the doctor or that co-ordinator at the facility will execute any part of the human body, after checking that the patient is not on the donor list and will not report the nearest person to be killed. Will he, having an obligation to inform his wife or wife, parents or children of a potential donor that they will be executed, or does he not have to do it, or does he not have to do it, or does he have to do it? And what if a health care institution respects this law, carries out a check that someone is not on the donor list, executes a plantation, doesn't inform the nearest who finds out afterwards and opposes this act, and there's a dispute, there's doubt, there's infidelity to the subsequent interpretation of the law, there's litigation, there's litigation. And any such affair as is lawfully pure will create fear of doubt and mistrust in such potential donors because it's cloudy to God. We want to avoid such situations, because all citizens don't know the laws by heart. When it happens in a family of tragedies, then emotions are stronger than knowing the law and everything that's rational in that moment. Why are we passing or passing a law that is not crystal clear and that protects every health care professional, every doctor who suggested someone to be explanted and he executed it. I therefore consider it necessary to install in this law a provision from which obligations will be clearly established, the obligation of the hospital coordinator, which is introduced in Article 30, to oblige him to verify before each implantation whether or not the donor is or is not on the donor list and only after the confirmation has been obtained that he does not give consent to the displantation. I also believe that if we apply such a model that there must be an obligation in the law of that coordinator to bring the closest ones, so those who are legally mentioned notices that a plantation will be carried out or that an implantation has been carried out. I want to believe that you will carefully consider this amendment and what I've just told you, not in the desire of the law alone, but in the desire to really avoid the situation that after the expansion without the knowledge of the nearest ones, and especially the inability to prove that someone was not on the list of non-donors, there is a dispute and conflict. Only one incident if we happen in the country on this subject, only one affair that will be held in the media, only one suspicion if it remains that the execution is carried out and that someone doubts the intention or previously expressed will of that donor will reduce citizens' willingness to donate organs. And no matter how late you explain to me, no matter how much anyone calls to the law, there will be doubts. We are now passing the law, and we are about to pass the law by preventing any subsequent doubt or problems that may arise. I found only so that this coordinator, apart from education and coercion, would be in the function of the last fuse and the nearest one would give assurance that, in accordance with the law, the implantation was prepared and executed. Read the whole law again, and you will see that there are no such provisions. I will wait for an indication of the amendment that has been given and end my debate with the hope that there are no more reasons for neither technically nor human or any other that this Parliament will not return to the electronic vote, to the electronic determination of the quorum instead of raising hands and that these two, three million kunas that cost this technology will finally begin to use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29267	Sir. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29268	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed MPs, very well-respected Mr. Secretary Lesar. Indeed, you're right when you say that our needs are far greater and that the waiting lists for the transplant of a particular organ are considerable. And we're aware of that, and so does our profession, and so does this government. We want these lists to be as short as possible, and we really want to satisfy all the needs of our citizens in this case of our patients. It's not true there's no means. The funds are also available teams of expansion, transport costs all this is further stimulated is not a health care facility with this damaged. Also, no organ has been transplanted because it prevents today’s health situation. No, but indeed this stopper, this profession should go on and on as much as possible in the minds and minds of our citizens where it will help and this Law that will allow organ donations. And also the willingness of our profession to satisfy these needs as much as possible so that we can all be content. Here in Article 30, it is indeed this coordinator who is in charge, so in this case with the Ministry, the...central coordinator. And be assured that this will not happen as you once said, if in the middle of the night there is a need somewhere, or the possibility that organs can be implanted and that somewhere Friday as you said on the night, that coordination will indeed work 24 hours throughout the year. And now there's a possibility, you know very well that the persons in charge, they don't even have to physically stand in the Ministry, exist... they are available, if the need to not be found, then according to the excitement system, indeed, such persons are found. Any situation as well as any crisis, our Ministry indeed responds quickly, promisingly in a few minutes and be assured that it will be carried out as it should and is being argued even now. There is no example that this coordination was scheduled at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29269	Thank you very much. We had one rectification of an incorrect allegation. Excuse me, Mr. Bačić. Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29270	So now the secretary of state has already corrected the fact that there are no planned funds for the expansion, the budget of the Croatian Institute for this year and the following, and there was also a planned amount for the expansion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29271	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HSS Club, Madam Representative Ljubica Lalić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29272	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. When we had the first reading of this Act, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party welcomed the proposal and rated it as necessary for reasons. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of transplant medicine was regulated by the 1980 Law, which was adopted as Croatian law in 1991. The fact of the development of medical science that enables an increasing number of citizens to be treated by transplants imposed the adoption of a new law. This legislative proposal bears the P.Z.E. mark. and it would be wrong to make an opinion that this is just another law being passed under the pressure of Europe. That would be wrong because we need this law and it cannot be someone else's, it must be ours. ... Donorship is obvious to have echoes in Croatia, indicating an increase in the number of donors and Croatia slowly ranks in the European Union. Despite the increase in the number of donors, however, the need is still greater and disproportionate. They're still long lists of those who wait for the donor. The citizens still resent the donorship and even after death. The reason for this vision is certainly in the consciousness of man. Is that prejudice, fear of abuse in a corrupt society, mistrust in the conduct of the principles of justice and justice. We believe that only one, one reason, cannot be singled out, and the reason is both prejudice and fear and mistrust. Prejudice stems from the belief that the body is the expression and confirmation of the person. And that's right. The body is a material confirmation of man in a spiritual sense. However, it is a gift that has been given to us, but not because we would bind it with the chains of egotism. Leaving to material decay and what life means to the nearness and brother in the mercy of giving. Inciting a donorship as the greatest human act of every man the Holy Father has said all he can serve a living sin is to bury. These strong words are aimed at breaking prejudice, and for them there must be a way to reach the consciousness of every man. Finding these paths is not just a task of a spiritual community whose Holy Father is the Supreme Head, it is a task and a civil community, which is a state. Breaking prejudice is a common task and obligation of both communities, the most humane part of one man's life is by giving its own organs to save another's life, and experts say that one man's donorship can save four lives. The further reason for observanty is fear of abuse. Unfortunately, we live in a society that morally eroded. Moral and social values have been affected, and everything is being hurt by one single goal, which is a personal material benefit. In a morally eroded and materialized society where altruism instead of nobility is interpreted as the madness of the latest romantics, there is, of course, a fear that the noble act will become the subject of another's business. It is in the state to give through legal mechanisms that will ensure that abuse cannot and will not occur. Of course it's not just law enough. The law does not mean anything without proper practice. The burden of elimination of this reason lies exclusively in the state as well as the elimination of mistrust in the fair selection of persons on the waiting list. This burden is not easy, and success is more difficult when it comes to a state that has worsened its position on the corruption scale in just a few months by 20 places. According to the Law, taking parts of the body from a living donor and taking parts of the body from a deceased person should be distinguished. Taking parts of the body from a living donor is only allowed if the donor has given consent in writing for the operation and that consent must only apply to the intended procedure. As a rule in this case and in the future it will be about donating a known recipient. A situation that's more complex when taking a body part from a dead person. The law says that parts of the body from the deceased are allowed to be taken for transplant only if the donor did not object in writing. We at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party do not object to such a provision. It seems simple, but in practice it's not like that. According to the legal formulation, it should only be established whether they have died for life in writing opposed to taking organs and, if not free, the organs are taken. Following the current formulation it is also possible but the practice is significantly different from the law. The adoption of the organs requires consent of family members. Although the Law did not regulate which members a certain practice was established. This is neither the place nor the time to condemn the gap between practice and law, the situation is very sensitive and certainly in an unspeakable difficult situation is a doctor who has to tell the nearest relative that a cerebral death occurred in the patient and that there is no return. At such a difficult moment, he still has to ask for permission to take the organ, the most unfavourable moment for a rational decision. Let us therefore consider the importance and status of the donor card. It is a means of raising awareness, of raising awareness of the humanity of organ donation, but after the death of the signatories his closest relatives will decide whether his will will be done. It doesn't even occur to us to allow organs without consent, but consent to who, of course, whose organs they are. The moment I signed the donor card, I undoubtedly expressed my free will, and I don't see who it is whose will would be beyond my will. I don't think there's any dispute in that case. The donor clearly expressed his will, and his family is not exposed to the fact that in times of greatest pain he thinks about the humanity of the donor. It is not so often repeated that the inhuman selflessness of the mother of Restetar, who, by giving consent to the organ of her 17-year-old daughter's death, saved four lives. Of course, the doctor’s relationship not only with the patient but also with his family is very important in all of this. The doctor must be confident, it is not easy, but the doctor’s job is not easy, but he has been chosen by his choice. Furthermore, the increase in the number of donors increases the need to increase the number of medical teams, to arrange new operating halls and to obtain new equipment. That is why the resources from the state budget are needed. Those funds aren't enough and they won't be for much longer. We therefore fear that we are getting another law that draws us closer and even equates with the regulation of other European Union countries, and what makes us different from others is that we may be left with a dead letter on paper. Despite this fear, the Croatian Peasant Party's Club supports this law, but it will not be able to show by voting because it does not want to participate in something that the President of the Parliament, if necessary, falsifies and adapts the need for a given moment, and in order to carry out our voting duty, it is necessary to enable us to consume the right, and above all, the right to vote in a way that determines the results in an unequivocal manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29273	Ma'am, don't come in. I will answer this, on the basis of Article 32 of our Rules of Procedure and Article 14 of the first and fourth indents, which says it is the right and duty of the representatives to participate in the work of the Croatian Parliament, debate and vote. It is not appropriate for individual representatives to invite representatives or announce a breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's what I'm talking about for those 152 MPs, who don't want us, or maybe a little harder to understand the rules of the Rules of Procedure, because of them I'm talking about. There are probably 152 of us, so I warn that calling for a breach of the Rules of Procedure is also a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ms. Ljubica Lalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. But one statement I want to believe that you didn't want to use it like that when you spoke, article 213, which obliges the chairman to keep the order at the session, and before that Article 18, which speaks about the protection of the dignity and dignity of each representative, you have been unsettled because you said that some MPs are a little harder to understand what they associate that maybe God may not be mentally retarded or not know, so if you could explain it and thus prevent what might be interpreted, and I don't even want to think that you as chairman of your colleagues wanted to tell them that they are retarded, and that they are and are chosen by the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29275	I did not injure the Rules of Procedure, but I am following the Rules of Procedure by quoting the provisions of Article 2 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure also for those who do not want to say themselves, and some are even more difficult to understand, is a small constitution, and it foresees that it also has the right to participate, debate and vote not only the right but also the duty of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, ma'am, as long as you call on how you will not vote, I will warn you that you are obliged by letter and by the spirit of the Rules of Procedure or by a small constitution to do so rather than to announce that you will violate the Rules of Procedure. So it's out of the question that I've hurt the Rules of Procedure in any way, and I said that some people don't want to, and some of them may also be normal, that maybe they're a little harder to understand, which is why I mentioned it. ... Let's move on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As long as you call for a breach of the Rules of Procedure from this table as I chair, you will be reminded by reading the Rules of Procedures of Articles 14 and 14 of and Article 32 of indent 18, under which I am obliged to ensure the duties of the representatives to be held in the Assembly. Of course you can do it, but so can I. Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the IDS Club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29276	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, This law is certainly an important topic in itself for all citizens of Croatia, and moreover, from the point of view of bringing domestic legislation into line with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe in this area. The IDS Club of course supports the intensification of the system for implantation and transplantation. Although I must stress that such a law had to be implemented before it came into practice at all, it was necessary to conduct a wider public debate so that citizens could demonstrate themselves about the way it was organised. Why is that supposed to be? So far, there has been a campaign in Croatia, there has been a lot of talk about organ donations, even the distribution of donor cards has begun, all of course, from a group of enthusiast doctors who wanted to help and who understand the importance of the transplant, of course, for the purpose of treatment. We also know that the Red Cross is performing a major blood donation campaign, because we know that blood is also a human organ. Now that the final bill is before us, I must admit that we are in the IDS of a certain dilemma because now this proposal is considered by all donors, if they are not particularly opposed to life. We know that there used to be a section in the medical book where you could indicate whether you wanted to be an organ donor after death or not. If you made a list of people who decided that in the event of an accident, or their deaths donated organs they would, of course, be signed up automatically as donors. But it wasn't the other automatisms written that they were against it. So we should now have a list of people who are against donating their organs after death. The law itself says that if there is no written clue about rejection it means that it is a silent consent. I'm just curious as to how you're going to come up with a written lead. Such a list was to be poured into one of the centers that would then be notified by the primary healthcare doctor. Such information should now be found on health cards, and the prerequisite for people to identify is, of course, good information. We can remind ourselves that the current minister, Mr Hebrang, launched a transplant problem as early as 95 years ago. It was then that a working group was formed that ended in 1998. A guideline on organ implantation, where both the organisation and the funding have been set up. We see, however, that until today, it means almost 10 years, no concept has been realised. I am afraid, unfortunately, that, apart from some way of harmonising the law with the European Union, the adoption of this Law that treatment with transplants will not change significantly because our health care is neither ready nor material. The fact is, with a system like this, we get a certain number of donors. However, I can give you an example of kidney transplants in Croatia to prove that there are about 2,000 800 people going on dialysis in Croatia, 800 of them waiting for a transplant order, and 33 kidney transplants are being performed in Croatia in one year. And we know for ourselves when kidneys are transplanted that such individuals have a better quality of life. And also, as far as health care is concerned, there's a lot to be saved because for a patient who goes on dialysis for one year, it costs 150 thousand kuna, and the one who transplants and costs health care for 60 thousand kuna. We must also be aware that in Croatia, there is a percentage of fewer organs than the dead than the European average. One of the conditions for improving and meeting citizens on transplants is a secure public debate and an explanation that organ transplant is also one method of treatment. And so all those who donate help in some way in this treatment. Good organization, knowledge, resources and ideas of giving are essential factors for successful treatment of transplants. As important as math is, we're all aware here. The method of treatment with a transplant and how much she improved medical opportunities to help a man was speaking to the Pope himself, which we have heard today, to the 18th. The Congress of the World Association for Transplantation in Rome in 2000. The Pope said that the donation of organs in the event of death for the benefit of other expressions of personal decision, the will of an individual, the expression of man's love for man. This message should be an incentive to everyone, to all organizations and people individually. Everyone needs to think about it, talk about it in the family, and express their will. As far as the idea is concerned, this idea is certainly very positive and that we all, of course, support this idea. Although we all know that it is good to have a law like this, in nature nothing will change in our lives because our health care is not ready for a greater number of transplants and transplants because so far, a small number of transplants did not depend on this legislation itself. It is always up to the state of our health, and we ourselves are aware of how bad the financial and material situation is in our health.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29277	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Madam Representative Željka Antunović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29278	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, State Secretary. We are pleased at the SDP Club to discuss this topic and this Law in this Chamber. Indeed, the results achieved by the transplant in Croatia but also significantly greater needs than the results achieved as they went in a positive direction in the modern, modern development of knowledge and opportunities in the field of medicine oblige us to regulate this area by law. This Law that we have received will answer some of these questions, and it will fill some of the gaps that have existed so far. In that direction, we could possibly be satisfied. In the SDP, however, we think that we are missing an opportunity to make an even better law that will not only fill these open legal gaps in the area of transplants but will foster the even faster development of transplant medicine that we have witnessed in the last 4.5 years. And I will use once again and every time there is an opportunity for this speaker to express the views of the SDP, but also to determine what our common public function is, and that is to further promote the function of donation, to further promote that we are all obliged to make maximum efforts to make the number of transplants in Croatia even bigger. Somewhere in the first half of the year, we can boast that we have about 12 to 13 donors, which is a really good result for our conditions. In 2000, the expansion started and the public campaign got much bigger space and I think that public campaign, that public campaign should be thanked for this significant expansion. In this very positive context, the Parliament has also participated, since the adoption of resolutions, different round tables, consultation of experts, the introduction of the health ministry's reporting obligations to the parliamentary committee on the implementation of the programme and the activities undertaken on organ transplants in Croatia. These are all activities that deserve both praise and congratulations. The card belongs to all participants, many times it has been repeated today, most often with enthusiasts, people who are willing to learn and in Croatia to develop both contemporary knowledge and modern methods and modern procedures. However, we must no longer settle for it. What we think in the SDP is that this law could be better resolved, better encouraged is what is the biggest problem in Croatia, organisation and procedure, or organisation of the transplant process. In this law as a central place to deal with the coordination and organisation of all these complex procedures is the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health and Social Care, more precisely as it is now called. I hope that everyone will agree that this is a step backwards from everything that has already been discussed in Croatia, so I would even say partly put into office. I will remind you of the function of the Croatian transplant which, which has never functioned as a whole but is partly functioning. It does not have to be called a Croatian transplant, but there should be one central organisation that would function 24 hours and would use all modern communication, communication means that would then connect all participants in these complex transplant processes. During an open discussion of the broad expert debate in the Croatian Parliament, Dr Igor Povrvanović, a man who is certainly the authority for this area, has made it very clear and therefore all enthusiasts agree, so far participants in the transplant process. Everyone thinks it's the biggest, biggest problem in Croatia. Why in the SDP, we think the Ministry of Health is not a good, good body. The ministry is a administrative organisation, the ministry has other tasks, numerous tasks, complex tasks. We talked earlier today about one of these important tasks. The ministry does not need and will not be a well operational body required in transplant procedures. We need to get this transplant office that's going to be trained for 24 hours. There is no need, no rational reason, no argument, at least this is not explained by this law that it is not separated from the ministry and is not transferred to one such independent professional and well-organised, so I would say better than the co-ordinated body so far. In this law, some other important organisations are also neglected, which should either be mentioned or in some way define their powers and their tasks. They're transplant centers. We are slowly creating these, such places within the Croatian and health systems and a complete network. There should be something more precise to define. It's tissue banks and cells. We have in Croatia today an informal, one formal bank, we have a bone marrow bank, it's a cell bank that doesn't have any formal status and we have an eye bank that has a formalized status, but there's obviously different thoughts about it and a lot of conflict on that basis. In this law, even organizations that are numerous in support of transplants are not recognized anywhere. I will mention only two of the most important, it is the Croatian donor network or the Red Cross, just before mentioned. But there are a whole series of other NGOs dealing in part or entirely with this issue and we can't recognize, I say, their place or their assignment or their functions in this law. There's another inaccuracy that could be corrected in law but obviously there's no hearing, that's what we were talking about in the first reading. Not exactly solved is the situation when the organ or tissue or cells go into international exchange. It remains unclear who makes the decision in that case. Who will judge and who will make the decision, it is not seen in the law itself, and it is quite important. It is also in the context of this international exchange or the international involvement of Croatia in international co-operation in the field of transplants is unclear and undefined what if an organ transplant situation is opened, but a much more frequent cell or tissue will need or be able to perform Croatian healthcare or foreigners. Such situations are real with the development of our health, the growth of the reputation of our health, will open up space for us foreigners to do a transplant, why not. It strengthens the reputation and opens some doors on the team, in that network of international organ exchanges, cells or tissues. It wasn't settled by this law. We also warned about this, and I don't know why our ministry was deafened to put in some of the provisions that in one way or another would give an answer to those, these are legal questions first of all. The law also does not recognise clearly the differences and specificities in organ transplants and this second segment, i.e. third cell and tissue. There are differences. Experts know, I wouldn't want to waste time on it right now, there are differences and they should be visible from the law, but there's no such thing. Another important thing, just before, a colleague of Dorotea Pesic, on behalf of the IDS Club, warned of one important fact, by this law we all become donors, we all become donors. It seems to me that this is a way to increase is’, there is the applicant’s intensity to increase the number of donors. But I think it's gone a little too far, though. I think it's serious, that you can talk about a possible threat to one's human rights. We all need to do everything to increase the number of donors, but not to be declared by the law to all donors and that we actually have a very limited opportunity, or those who have limited opportunities if they want to oppose it. In fact, in the first proposal in the first reading of the law, there was one provision, which is particularly surprising to me, by which the chosen doctor of general practice must inform the patient of the possibility of resisting the donation of a part of the body and allow him to declare it in writing. And that was in the variant when we weren't all donors by law, only those who wanted to become one. Now in the variant when the Law declares us all donors, this provision on the obligation of a doctor of general practice has been deleted. She didn't make much sense to me in the first reading. But here in the second reading should be absolutely necessary. If the Law already obliges us, or declares us all donors, then it is minimum to introduce obligations to a general practitioner that there will be no donor to notify, or if it does not want to be a donor that it must inform a potential donor. I don't know if it's, is this an accident in the law or is it some kind of intention? If this is about intent, then they need serious and harsh condemnation. If this is a coincidence, then it would be necessary for the Proposer of the Law to clear up some obvious illogicality. There'll probably be a lot of amendments. I hope I've quite clearly warned about some of these dilemmas of doubt, of some opposition. I say it is still not the law that should be rejected as a whole, but it may be necessary to reject it, we can hardly agree that it is the best and the best quality given these principled remarks that I have made here. I hope that, in the best sense, the words corrected by these defects that exist are enough quorum and will not have to be approached by counterfeiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29279	Madam MPs, there has been no falsification of the quorum in this House so far. You didn't call, you didn't announce that you wouldn't vote, so I won't talk about it any further. There was just no counterfeiting of votes, and whoever loses has the right to be angry. Sir, on behalf of the Ministry, Mr. Velimir Bozikov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Antunovic. I'd just like to answer the question, the dilemma of why it's at the Ministry of Health, not in some x-institution, there are several of them who are successfully transplanting. Because many of them are only developing, I think this current state of our health normally in the structure and the possibility of transplanting that for the time being best to do so at the Ministry of Health. There is indeed a way of establishing, a way of coordinators who are there and are available 24 hours throughout the year, so there is no possibility that they will not perform their duty at that time. Question is, when a large multi-organ center develops. You know that transplants are done not only on the heart or heart transplants or pancreas transplants, kidney transplants, and that I still don't count, you'll see time will show which ones will be the centers. The best... She's coming out clearly... [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] locations or the opening of one transplant agency, these are various possibilities. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Our view of the government that the most effective, rational, fairest, most accessible in this way that the Ministry of Health is now acting with its transplant department, where there is an organ transplant chief, and there are doctors, and a position that deals with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29281	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club Mr. Representative Pejo Trčević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29282	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In Croatia, we have the right to, namely, pass one of these laws because the Republic of Croatia does not have the Law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment. In fact, there is an old one taken over from the former state that is in great dissatisfaction with the achievements of today's medical science, and is even less in line with the laws and legal solutions of the European Union. The development, namely, of medical science opens up opportunities for an increasing number of people to this type of treatment. So their relationships need to be precisely defined in order to avoid abuse and violation of the rights of persons involved in such procedures, whether donors or those to be transplanted. In fact, starting with a fundamental human right to life, and respecting organ transplants as generally accepted both medically and mentally, as well as economically and socially justified treatment. We believe that there are opportunities to increase the number of organ transplants in the Republic of Croatia, and that there is a willingness to take further necessary measures to increase the number and improve the conditions for the implementation of these human health procedures. We, in fact, express our doubts in the HSP Club regarding Article 22, because we believe that, in fact, how this Article 22 reads in paragraph 1, there is a certainty of human rights violations. Because it says that parts of the body from the deceased are allowed to be taken for transplants only if the donor for life is not in writing opposed. As mentioned so far, in this article we are all potential donors. So I ask you all of us who will raise our hands for this form of law, are we ready to take responsibility after the entry into force of this law in this form ready to take responsibility for God's unhappiness to the deaths of ourselves, our mothers, our fathers, are simply dismembered? Namely, it would be far better to stand this item and read like this, parts of the body from the deceased must be taken for human transplant only if the donor gave written consent to it for life. We in HSP support the adoption of this Act, of course with these small changes, because its adoption as a positive matter is not opposed to the church in the Croats or the Croatian Bishop's Conference. We also support the Law in order to prevent trafficking in human body parts. We know there's a black market in there. Thank God, we didn't get such a big wave in Croatia. But if a law like this doesn't come into force, we don't know how it's gonna end. That is why it is necessary to legally regulate the procedure of human taking and giving parts of the body, and also by this law and sanctioning all those whose human act is in the protection of human life is actually a big business and the amount of large profits. In order to prevent this, the HSP Club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29283	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29284	I'd like to beg Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Mr. Representative said a terrible finding didn't catch a wave with us. I'm convinced there's not one case with us, at least I've never heard of it, and I'd beg not just for you, anyone to report it to the Ministry of Health at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29285	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in the debate is Mr. Stjepan Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29286	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In our second reading, the Final Proposal for the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment is, therefore, shortened the Transplantation Act. I would point out at the outset that the applicant has already indicated that he has accepted a good part of the amendments and remarks that were in the first reading and that the two newspapers that are respected and incorporated into this text of the law are the ones that apply to persons with special needs, so that they can declare themselves and express their desire that it is no longer an obligation to go to the notebook but that they can do so with two witnesses. Second, the importance of establishing death is strengthened. So this is the essential fact that it is confirmed by three members and by doctors who were not directly related to the treatment of patients. And now I would go back a little bit when actually the transplant in Croatia started, the famous 71st year and that it was actually based on the work and enthusiasm of healthcare professionals who were also the first promoters and pioneers of the transplant. Normally, both the importance and society, civil society and all the associations that supported it were very important, but now we have come into a situation where from enthusiasm we have to move on to a serious organisation, because if we want to regulate this system then we have to apply other procedures, which means a good law-based organisation. There have been several resolutions in history, so the 99th Resolution on Encouragement and Transplanting and then promoted this donor card that you have seen more or less, and you all have it and many have signed it and it has played its part, it has been in that marketing sense, so that awareness in the public through that card is kind of strengthened and that everyone becomes aware that it is important to donate the organ to think about, because I say the task of health profession has two basic postulates, it is to extend the human life if it can and raise the quality of life. The transplant is just one of these methods, you wouldn't even mention the financial part, if it were cheaper in the ultimate goal, but what's most important is to raise the quality of life and that's the greatest range of all of our efforts. And what's important is to mention, on which postulates base this law. It is based on the principle that the transplant is done only in the case of medical justification. So it can't be an individual's wish I'm going, but medical justification and that national waiting list that's completely transparent and there's no jumping and there's no privilege. It is also important to point out that trade as well as propaganda advertising is completely prohibited, and what is the newspaper is this novelty, so the assumed consent. So it's no longer what the donor card was, I want to be a donor, but now the institute of a supposed donor is being introduced, but there are now dilemmas that have also shown in this debate that they are justified and that I think that for this final text of the law, these remarks should be respected regardless of whether they will come into the form of an amendment that may not be in the current situation of our society when moral and legal dilemmas are still quite open on this issue, that this is strengthened and with one agreement of the immediate relatives. That's what I think we should think about, because it seems to me that this assumed consent is meant to increase the number of donors, practically all of us are donors who don't stand up to it and put it in writing for life. So on that one, you should think about it somehow institutionally and explain it and explain it. And what's important is to mention, what was the purpose of passing this law. This is to bring our legislation in line with the international conventions dealing with this issue, to correctly establish the criteria of medical practice, to solve all these ethical and legal issues, and to ensure the quality of the service that must be at the best level, and therefore, it is important to establish reference centres and therefore also to escplantation and transplants only those institutions that receive this certificate, i.e. the licence. I would point out on these ethical-legal issues that are important, if not, that this is where the recipient is dealt with. Therefore, the recipient must give written consent to be transplanted by the authority. So it's not just about the donor without whom the transplants are gone but it's legally explained here and that the recipient has to give his written consent. It is also mandatory to monitor the health status of all patients who are transplanted by the organ, and a procedure has also been developed with a living donor where it is said that the ethical commission of the institution that determines it can only be done in persons over the age of 18 and normally with written consent. In the execution of a deceased person, so the donor is prescribed what I have already said, that death must be established by three members and the normally assumed consent must be, and that means this coordination between the co-ordinators of the institutions and the co-ordinators of the Ministry of Health who are following and organising the whole transplant process, that there must be all in the best order and this fear that it may not be good that the Ministry of Health, I do not think it is right at this time that it is best that it is the Ministry of Health because then it is the authority of the Ministry institution that guarantees that everything will be legal and regular. And in the end, I would say that the development of medicine is always going ahead of the law, and that's fortunate because this development of the transplant in Croatia, too, was waiting for all possible laws and regulations to be passed, but it's the task of society, which is why we in the Assembly, too, that we recognize these changes in front of us in some way in time and that we legally shape them to solve these and legal and ethical problems in the best possible way possible. And because of that I think that this text of the Law that is before us is good, as well as any law it is not definitive, and if in practice a lack of application of the law is shown then there is always time to work it out and fix it, and I hope that our Ministry of Health, which is competent to monitor and coordinate the transplant, will be at the level of its role and will respond in time. That's why I support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29287	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29288	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after the debate at the 8th session in July is before us the final proposal of this Law, a law that regulates a very sensitive area because what is technically possible is not always moral, it is not therefore morally acceptable. Transplants are a great achievement of science in the service of man and are born with many bioethical issues. These issues have been particularly intense since the first successful transplant from a living relative, it was a kidney transplant in 1951 in Paris, and the first successful kidney transplant from an unrelated donor in 1959. Of course, for the public was the most attractive heart transplant in 1967 at the hospital in Capetown when famous Dr Christian Barnard successfully transplanted his heart. But here, doctors themselves face one, with one principle, not to harm the Nile of Nights. It suffers here, suffers from transplants from a living donor, but it is still allowed in many advanced countries of Europe such as Sweden and Norway and there is a large part of transplant medicine and we can accept here that part exists for the whole. The grip must be for a good whole, it must be necessary at that time and it must be an effective way of treatment. We know that today it is possible to transplant the various 25 tissues and organs. It is precisely to encourage a wide-ranging organ donor action and also to prevent possible abuses that are necessary, I agree, legally, to regulate this area more precisely and to bring it into line with the positive experiences of the developed world in order to create public trust and convince the population of the inability and exclusion of abuse, and also to break the myths of abductions overnight to extract organs, to place the rich at the top of the waiting lists, etc., etc. But here, after this general opening part, allow me a few remarks that may help to make this Final Bill a better and better quality. I believe that Article 13 of page 4 should complement that the taking of an authority is to be decided by a qualified, qualified ethical committee. Mr. Proposer, on page 34, you took that statement from the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health and you say that you have brought it into line with Article 64. The health care law. Yes, technically, but not contentally. Why? Because a qualified ethical committee implies not these technical criteria but professional criteria in order to carry out that task. Furthermore, Article 14(2) states that the body or tissue should not be taken if there is a risk to the life or health of the donor. So who can claim there's no risk? There is always a risk, especially for the health of these situations, because if you take away one organ from the most healthy person, one kidney is a serious risk to life, especially for health. I think it might be wise to consider making some changes here in Article 14(2). And now I, and like my colleagues who spoke before, will only be a little bit more extensive, but I will also give you information from the experience of European countries looking back at Article 22. It says, paragraph 1: "Parts of the body from the deceased must be taken for transplant purposes only if the donor has not objected to it in writing". But in most European countries that have a law of assumed consent. It is customary for a close family to ask the deceased directly for permission to take organ for transplants. Look, in Germany, Ireland, Denmark, Great Britain and the Netherlands, a mandatory family permit is required, so-called. "information sent down." I propose, and that is what we will do in our group of representatives from the Croatian Democratic Community in written form of the amendment, that we also install it in this Law because, apart from being a more humane approach and apart from the reasons that other participants are instructed in this debate, it is necessary in a traditional society that inherits the Christian civilization's heritage. And besides, Mr. Secretary of State, you're a doctor, too, it's totally in line with Article 5(1). The Code of Medical Ethics and Ideontology. I also welcome the changes and distinguished proposals from the 8th session regarding the granting of consent to deaf people. It also regulates the provisions on the National List of Waitings run by the Ministry of Health and the completion of criminal provisions for offenders of this Act. I would like to extend my recognition to all of Croatia who are doing this very complex work, and I also mention thanks to everyone in Croatia medicine and health care for all the efforts they have made over the decades to find their place and application in the Republic of Croatia. Despite the comments made, let me finally say that I believe that it is a good law which together with the rules adopted by the minister will significantly improve the legislation of this area and bring Croatia closer to the European average of last month's 9 over, the first 6 months of this year 12 to 16 donors per million inhabitants, which is the European average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29289	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ruža Lelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues. I also support the adoption of the proposed law because I think this law aims to set clear criteria for medical practice in the field of transplant medicine and to place Croatia in order of European countries that have covered this area medically and legally, all with the aim of creating one legal certainty for persons seeking such medical assistance as well as those who provide it. The growing need to transplant parts of the human body... increasing potential and success of transplant medicine and broader indications for transplant treatment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although the method is generally accepted, ethically and economically well justified, the number of organs taken from the dead has not increased significantly and the problem of the lack of the organ to transplant is increasingly relevant in us, but also in the world. I would remind you that in Croatia alone in 1971, the first kidney transplant was performed, and already in 2003 we have more organic transplants of lizards and kidneys. Also when it comes to the number of donors, we have made significant progress there. In 2000 to 2001, we were at the beginning of European countries ahead of Greece, and already in 2002, we moved away from the bottom and came to a place just below Sweden and Switzerland with nine donors and here we now hear that this year we are already from 12 to 13 donors per million people and that we are already putting ourselves on average in European countries. However, this must not satisfy us or slow us down because the data suggests that every year we have 500 new patients who come to haemodialysis and that the kidney is waiting for 800 patients, not to mention other needs for the transplantation of the pancreas, the heart, the liver, the cornea, and everything else. Therefore, taking and transplanting a human body for the purpose of treatment is of paramount importance. The organ donation doesn't require a reward, it's a reward for itself, and yet I would repeat the saying of John Paul II. who said, "All that can serve the living is sin to bury." It is very important for transplant medicine to promote it in society. Reporting to the public about the importance of organ and tissue transplants is a form of healthy public change and public support, therefore the role of the media that have also helped to obtain this public, the creation of trust in the health system when it comes to transplantation, the presentation of many valuable examples of the preservation of life and health of difficult patients, thus contributing to the movement in organ donation and collection. Celebrities at all levels, starting with artists, writers, politicians and others, can play a valuable role in promoting organ donation. Here it is said in several colleagues and colleagues that the donor card, certainly the donor card is important for both us and the world. And why is it really important? So because it is known that if the deceased person's attitude is known, then the family in 90% of the cases gives permission to take organs and without that familiar attitude, the answer is 50%. Of course, they are crucial to the collection of organs found in the professional involvement of health services. They are reluctant to ask the family for permission after the death of their patient because of respect for the individual dignity of the deceased and her family, and it happens that family is not asked for permission at all, or on the other hand, family often refuses to give their consent. So today it is generally held that a model such as on several occasions here is discussed model of assumed consent with the possibility of actively shutting down the model that the public best accepts. Here is what we have seen means in Article 22, and that means that parts of the body are allowed to be taken for transplants only if the donor for life has not objected in writing. That written statement he was supposed to deliver to his primary health care doctor and he to the Ministry of Health. We see here developed over this necessary debate and I hear there will be amendments that I can generally support. I also consider an article 21 that says that parts of the body with the deceased may be taken for the purpose of transplanting to another person once death has been determined with certainty according to medical criteria and in a prescribed manner. I'd say the most common cause of non-adaptation for life but not agreeing with the family is fear that there's still hope or that no organ is taken by a person who really isn't, is not dead. In my first reading, too, I have expressed my objection to this article and I see that it is now improved, that it is more concrete, where the death of the person whose parts can be taken for transplants is determined, means the medical institution's commission is composed of at least three doctors where the doctor who has also treated his patient can certainly not participate. And I think this might satisfy it now. I think it's a good thing that the list and those who don't give it is, as well as possible donors and recipients, as well as the waiting list to be in one place at the Ministry of Health, and here we see that there's no possibility that it's possible for it to be in a special body. I also think it's good that at the Ministry of Health and Social Care that the allocated money in the state budget to increase donor numbers and improve transplant programmes last year was a million 350, this million and 700. It should be stressed that it is only with the Ministry of Health, and that normally for such services and any medical institution that has a licence for the procedure to receive additional money within its limits. This is meant by the Ministry of Health only for the costs of transporting teams and bodies to produce unique information support for the system of managing the national waiting lists and the distribution of organs and tissues to monitor the transplant program and I think it will get results. It has been said here on several occasions that the situation in our health care is both financially very materially bad, so I would say that the situation is difficult but that it is not very bad and that in these conditions our health care professionals and our health care institutions are indeed in this organ transplant area that they are due to other health institutions in Europe and could say in the world as well. I would also like to say that each of us should, in general and in the public, think this way that if we give a part of the body to ourselves, any part of our loved ones' body to make us actually feel that fills us and comforts us that one part is still trying and that we have done a good deed. Finally, I would say that the draft law is in line with the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, and I support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29291	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Lucia Chikesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29292	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Services. I'm going to try to cut short because I got information that you've got a lot of work to do. Second reading of the Law on the collection and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment, as well as the harmonisation of this same proposal with the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. So it existed in medicine very clearly and purely that only life can be preserved, and sometimes health can only be established in this way, means by giving part of the human body, or transplant. I will look back just for a short time, so the trasplantation of parts of the human body has been carried out for 50 years, the first one was performed in 1954 and that kidney, followed by bone marrow in 56, 63, 1983, heart in 1967, and heart-pulmonary in 1981. A multi-organic explosion was carried out in 1983. How important this is for the progress of human life for mankind’s overall progress is that two doctors from these teams were awarded Nobel Prizes in 1999. This is the data that's from the world. However, Croatia cannot complain about its profession and Croatia can say that there is an enviable history in the area of transplants that there are great successes, given the circumstances under which our very professional teams, i.e. very modest and also very demanding operations are performed. The first kidney transplant in Croatia was in the clinical center of Rijeka in 71, followed by the heart in Zagreb in 1988, so that in 2002 the lungs were transplanted, and together the kidneys and lizards also in Zagreb in 2002. Christian Bernard himself, who pioneered in heart and blood vessels transplants, said that surely this would not be, but this achievement did not surprise the medical world with continuous progress towards this goal, which was achieved by immunologists, biochemists, anesthesiologists, surgeons, specialists in many other branches of medical sciences, has enabled this new success in the transplant in medicine around the world. I would refer to how this method of treatment was accepted and in our society, so it's 21. Nine. In 2004, on the occasion of the European Day of Donation and Transplant, the Market Research Centre conducted a survey in Croatia and the survey was conducted on a sample of 1879 respondents and 83 of them showed a positive attitude towards this problem, i.e. supported organ and tissue transplantation. At issue were personally donated by the organ, 70% of the subjects were categorically in their response to donate. 21% responded with I don't know, and 8% just said explicitly not to donate. If it adds to this mood, then we can hope that this branch of medicine will continue to develop, that the problems of the most difficult ones will continue to be solved, which is the dying patients, because when society accepts 83% of the cases, then we can't be, not optimistic. We have to stress that, and these are my colleagues before me in our discussions, how religion sees this, how religious aspects of this problem are. And the common question is whether my decision on giving or my permission to take organs with my loved ones and me in accordance with my religious beliefs and almost all religions have answered this yes and almost all religions support organ transplants and donations. And they've already mentioned my colleagues when it comes to the question of Roman Catholic, or Roman Catholic religion, that he's the leader of the Holy Father, who's 18, about 18. In early September 2002, the World Transplating Congress came to Rome, attended this gathering in Rome for two reasons. His first message was that death of the brain is definitely the end of a man's life. And the second is that it is necessary to encourage organ transplants from the brain dead to help preserve the life of incurable patients. Transplanting is a major step in science in the service of man one of the ways of fostering culture, life is the donation of organs performed in an ethically acceptable way with the meaning of preserving the health and life of patients, but when they do not, which sometimes have no other hope. Of course there are always certain doubts in this and when I talked to my colleagues who are doing this job directly, who are in the transplant teams and transplants, then say that it is especially two misunderstandings and that those who burden a potential donor who is asking themselves whether my non-opportion to the organ donation of tissues and cells will be misused. And those potential recipients, whether the national waiting list is fair and whether I will welcome a new life, a life after a transplant. They assured me there are neither abuse nor can be, because the Ethics Commissions in health institutions that diagnose death are either cerebral, or cardiacly separate from the Explosion and Transplant Teams and have no insight into the national waiting list. Data on organ transplants in Europe say some countries have gone far. For example, I have a 1999 chart in front of me and we see that Spain is ahead of us, so the number of people who died in Spain per million in 33 are donors, in Austria 25 donors, in Belgium 22, while Croatia was in the infamous last place with 4 donors, only behind us Greece with 3. However, there has been a shift over 4 years, so in 2003 the countries that continued to lead remain leaders. However, Croatia, which had only 4 donors per million dead now has 8 and Greece 6. This year, a year later, we reached a million inhabitants of 12 dead donors. When you saw the waiting lists, then you see that for example today, in this year 2004, the kidney is waiting for more than a thousand patients. At the heart of more than 20 patients. On the liver, 60 patients. Ten patients on the lizard. At the bone marrow of about 300 patients and on the cornea of about 300 patients. And it is certain that this waiting list is consistent with this data that more than 31% of patients are waiting for a transplant for more than six years, that 10% is waiting for six years, 7% five years, 10% four years and I say 12% less than two years. In order to encourage all of this together, and I may have one proposal to simply stimulate a list of donors to be as large as possible, which is why they are the most responsible and should be the most responsible doctors of primary health care, so every patient and every doctor would have to have an informed conversation with the patient and get his consent or not consent and send these results to the central agency. The question of how and how to stimulate teams dealing with this should still be addressed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29293	Thank you very much. It wasn't short notice, but good. Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29294	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is an advanced law that needs to be backed up, but it seems to me that in just one provision where one doubt for certain reasons that I also support, But before I look back on this article, I would say something about the customs and customs of the ministry itself, this resolution ministry that looks back on and tends to refer to the comments made by committees, but not what is happening at the plenary session, which the MPs are talking about, so it is one already established remark, but I don't think it should be repeated, or at least that's how many MPs are owed by the resolution ministry itself, and then also the Government to simply say that such remarks were not established at all, and perhaps they would already be satisfied with that. But here's to starting in a row and very short. Article 1 which carries the Head of the "General Provisions" states that it is possible to regulate organ and tissue transplantation and is said to be dealt with by a special law. In the first reading, the minister himself told us here that the law in the procedure, however, was publicly published as a draft on the websites, but since then, it has been so long since, that only the Ministry and the Government had enough time to draft the Final Proposal of the Law on the Taking and Replanting of Parts of the Human Body, which, by that law, denied the possibility of what I said, but then followed one logic, a fundamental logic that at the same time or at least in the first reading, we see here on the benches to discuss exactly the Law on Out-of-Breeding. The veil of secrets suddenly prevailed over that draft, so the public is absolutely confused. We see that other institutions are very active that no one disowns their right, however, but the government is wise to remain silent. I don't think that's correct, that it's causing different misunderstandings, conjectures, and that it's time for the government to also declare a very sensitive and delicate issue like extra-body fertilization. I hope that the Secretary of State will at least say something about it about what is now with this draft of the law and about which there may be some disagreements or some debates that have come to the government and what is at all controversial or may be controversial. In Article 14, paragraph 2, as our colleague Bucan said, there is no, that, beyond any doubt, here are the laymen, especially the experts, who say on these issues that every transplant of any organ or tissue is, however, to some extent, a risk not only to health but also to the life of the donor, and this is not at all controversial and should not be disputed. Because if that weren't the case, then we'd be just the provisions on Xadavers transplants. However, here there was an invitation to the heritage of Christian ethics, so helping others unselfishly especially when we do so with our own body, or parts of the human body, then I think it is really the greatest expression of attention to another, to the neighbor, the greatest expression of love. But it seems to me here, I warned you for the first time, the ministry and the government didn't show themselves about it, why someone couldn't give their life to save someone else's life. There are no moral or possible visions about it, because giving life is a secretary of state, especially if you inherit Christian ethics. Giving life for another is the greatest expression of love for another. After all, you left, you haven't been there yet, otherwise you'd be able to figure this out. I'm sorry about this internal, our conversation. So, if it's not too slow, if our heroes who gave their lives to their country, it's not too permissive at all. There are no dilemmas, no legal, no moral, no ethical, that anyone especially closest, a mother, a father when it is too resilient to save his child's life, throw themselves out at such a risk, and also death. This state cannot take away such a form of love by its law, and here there has been a lot of words about it. So it's an incomprehensible sight of it, absolutely incomprehensible. There was also talk here about the words of the Holy Father. Therefore, it was necessary to listen carefully, and then you would come to such a conclusion if it was directed to call on the words of the Holy Father, but I say there are no ethical, nor moral barriers, and especially not legal to do so and to say there are such specific situations in life that they then require, so which the doctor then puts in doubt, and where, here I will now specifically talk about the father and mother, about such unreserved love that they show towards the child. Therefore, I think that if the proposal were to come to the vote of this law, it would also consider this provision, that we would indeed have an advanced legislation on this issue, which would be entirely in the light of our ethical principles.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29295	Thank you very much. We've got two more MPs, I suggest we finish, then we move on at 3:30 in the afternoon. At 3:30. Here comes Mr. Agent Ivan Bagaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29296	I will indeed be brief, Mr. Vice President, given the time and the fact that so far, almost everything has been said. He would immediately refer to the exposition of his colleague and, in effect, start his own exposure. No one prevents anyone from sacrificing himself for their own, however, it is clearly said that any intervention and a certain risk, however, because of that risk, and because of what he seems to be doing, is worthwhile and acceptable. So there's really no room for such speculation. When it comes to taking and transplanting parts of the body, it is not by itself the purpose of taking and transplanting parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment, in my opinion. However, as the consequences of taking parts of the body and transplanting the treatment, and infrequently healing, and infrequently saving the life itself, I believe that in terms of promoting the treatment should change our beliefs, customs and attitudes regarding this matter. One of the efforts of this change could be to change the title of the law itself and, in my opinion, it would be even more, it would be a better name if it were the Law on Treatment by transplanting parts of the human body. This would put the treatment first even though nothing in itself would change anything fundamental in the law, but it would lead to a change in our attitudes against this very important matter. Someone said in the discussion, I think it's in front of the IDS Club, that they said nothing would change by passing one of these laws. I think it's completely incorrect, this is a prerequisite that, apart from the regulation of this matter, will contribute to change, I repeat, our position on these very serious issues. When it comes to the consent that we've all talked about, giving body parts to a deceased person, then I'm also a personal list of one amendment in that sense. I don't think right now and now we might still be ready to make a statement in writing that we don't want to be a donor, that that's what we agreed to. Therefore, I think it would be good for every health insurance company to be able to make a statement about it before, not at the moment of death itself, that relatives come at such a difficult time and talk about it so important and so, I would say, difficult things in difficult times. When it comes to nomotechnically, some small remarks then, Mr. Secretary of State, I saw you actually have in your head, therefore, that Chapter II. "The taking of body parts from a living donor" should be consistent with Chapter III. "Taken part of the body from the deceased," so I ask the question. If taking part of the body is from a living donor, why wouldn't it be taking parts of the body and from a dead person? Why not bring that into line when it comes to this plural, which in itself doesn't change the essence at all. I promised to add my contribution to shortening this step of mine. My support for this law, very important and ultimately I am entitled to all those who have called here that they are for the law, and they will not be here. Because of their interpretation of the breach of procedure in this House. So, we turn out to be all of us, all of us who stayed here in the Parliament and who listened to their suggestions all the time that we were actually guilty, and they were real and just, and they actually ran away from the session. So I take their rights, and every time they come forward like that, I think that's the way to answer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29297	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Vladimir Šišljagic as last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29298	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after 33 years of experience related to implantation and transplants in the Republic of Croatia it really was high time to pass one of these laws that would regulate this area in a way that at this stage of development and medicine, actually seems to me that optimally solves this problem. So, I'm talking about a noble and human procedure in organ donation, and I assure you that the level of our Croatian medicine is at an extremely high level and that it actually seems to me that someone has said it, but it is not a waste, that there are no organs here in the Republic of Croatia, at this point it cannot be transplanted. There have also been speeches about the Ministry of Health and I agree that it was time and that this is a good solution and that with the National List of Waitings to be kept at the Ministry of Health, and also to those who explicitly refused the actual organ implantation procedure. As for the donor and these doubts that have arisen in the debate, so I can tell you that even now he's got quite a bit of an experience I'm talking about, quite a bit of a problem with the expansion and I think the promoter is, but now I might be subjective, I'm talking to the expert because I know the problem. If the applicant were to provide as many donors as possible in order to really help those patients in need and who are sick, he also proposed such a solution. So that the donor is considered any one who has not explicitly banned his organs from being taken. I also agree with the proposal that this problem may need to be defined in a more specific way, but here, I might suggest that a family be involved, but a family in a way that is not explicitly opposed. So unless they show their closest opposition. I think it would make a significant contribution to further increasing the expansion in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, I have to look back, let me, I won't be long anymore, but I'd have to comment, unfortunately, he's gone now, which is whether we agree, and I quote, "that after death we should be disbanded." Because of the public I would like to, I feel in some way certainly responsible as likely and many colleagues sitting here in the assembly. We're really trying to help in this business. This word "distribute" is very harsh, with dead patients being treated in a truly dignified, ethical and human way. My fellow doctors do it on an autopsy with a large piet, too, and the same procedure is when it comes to organ implantation. And finally, of course, as I said, it was finally and at the very end of the day that both legislative and ethical this activity of expansion and transplantation is being arranged at the current level that we have in Croatia. I think this one, that these legal solutions are optimal and I think it should be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29299	Thank you. That would end this debate about, by, and the Secretary of State, Mr. Bozikov, will ultimately address it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29300	Mr. Vice President, very respected gentlemen of the Parliament. At the end of this big debate, I cannot without thanking the very nice advice which is and the contribution that we will contribute to this amendment from the legislator Lesar, then the very valuable proposals of Bačić and Bucan and Šišljagić, indeed very valuable still contributes to this law which I believe will later improve this law in the procedure. And I'm also sorry that there is no representative Antunovic I would like to tell her to hear me directly. This law cannot stimulate something that would go to harm a person despite her great love and at that moment we very much respect but the medical profession has its own ethics which is truly universal with... For millenniums and a very strong ethics and we have no cheeks to approach there if we were convinced that this procedure would lead to the death of a person or significantly endangered health, if a person has one kidney cannot give one another, this healthy one, for example, and for her to go on dialysis instead, it would indeed be us, as medics convinced that they would not agree to it, because. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, I would like to thank all of our valuable medics who, with the sacrifice of doctors, nurses and scientists and practitioners, are all working on this big problem and are really on the rise of transplant medicine in Croatia and Croatia, and I want to thank them for everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29301	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The vote will be when the conditions are met. I interrupt the session and proceed at 3:00 and 30 minutes with the motion for a bill on genetically modified organisms and then we move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29302	Final bill of law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment. P.Z. No. 111. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the CNS PGS and the Club of Representatives of the HSP. HNS PGS representative's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29303	It is not accepted because it will be as in the law and announced in the sub-chapter act. It's a rule book.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29304	Since Dragutin Lesar's representative for the amendment is not in the assembly. I'm putting on a g flattery that amendment. Who's that? I'm saying he got two votes, so he didn't make it. And the amendment to HSP's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29305	We can't also accept it because it's falling away from the spirit of this law. There are two types of approaches to a potential donor. The assumed consent is if it does not show opposition and informed consent during life if consent is sought. We've been paying attention... with this law in this first part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it does not require consent from family or donor themselves. It is thus harmonised in Article 242 of the Criminal Code. So we've aligned with the existing criminal law. That way we can accept the days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29306	Proposer's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29307	Thank you very much, Mr. President, but I still don't think so. Because even as you have now said in your explanation and as it says in Article 22, indeed, all citizens of this law are mandatory donors of the organ transplant. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29308	Please, who's in favor of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 76 votes for, and 2 abstentions, the law on taking and transplanting parts of the human body has been passed for the purpose of treating the event as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29309	Gentlemen, we're moving on, we're moving on with the session. It's next: - Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms, first reading of P.Z.E. number 212. The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He does. State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, Mr. Jadran Antolkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29310	... I must conclude that we are not editing this matter in Croatian legislation for the first time, but it is currently governed by the current Nature Protection Act. [[The speaker was subsequently turned on.]] However, several reasons have conditionaled on a bill that will exclusively regulate the area of genetically modified organisms. The first thing that is not a component of nature protection is one interdisciplinary area for which many ministries are responsible. I'd like to list here at the moment, some, so the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Science, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, as well as the Ministry of Culture, which has the protection of nature in its portfolio. The existing provisions in the Nature Protection Act can be said that they are unsuccessfully arranged to comply with the European acquis, resulting from the reasoning that I will present to you in very short lines on the proposal of this law. Four important things should be highlighted in the interpretation of this law, which is that this proposal has made it clear that we have tried to distinguish competences for the implementation of this law. I'm going to say enough or enough of the fact that this law here represents a representative from the Ministry of Culture who really holds only one segment that's important when it comes to genetically modified organisms, which is a segment of nature protection. And to make matters even clearer in protected areas of nature, genetically modified organisms are completely prohibited so that from the aspect of the Ministry of Culture this topic and this area is very clear. However, the existing provisions do not distinguish well the competences for implementing the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms, and this also confirms one of the cases that we had in practice when importing and sowing corn seed, which was then found to have genetically modified organisms, so it had to be removed and then it was also found that the provisions of the law did not resolve the jurisdiction well. Another important, other important feature of this law is that it is important to clarify the authorisation procedure for the limited use of GMOs, for the purpose of introducing GMOs into the environment, for the placing of GMOs and products containing GMOs on the market. All these proceedings were initiated, initiated and resolved in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law, in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, which means that the body to whom the request was submitted had to prove whether the law was justified or not justified and thus to resolve the application submitted. This is in breach of the European acquis because when it comes to permitting GMOs to be introduced into the environment, whether on the market or in any of these ways, an application should be made and the applicant is obliged to demonstrate that all possible risks are removed, that there is no danger and that it is obliged to prove that there are all the conditions in accordance with the law that such authorisation is issued. Therefore, there is a huge difference in the fact that the proposal for this law is thus regulated and thus exempts the authority of the state administration which is responsible in a specific case, or from proof, rather than by the applicant of the application, while at the same time it is arranged that, if that body does not make the appropriate decision within the prescribed time limit, it is considered that the application has been rejected, it is therefore not granted a permit which is otherwise interpreted under the General Administrative Procedure Act and the administrative procedure of silence. As the third important difference between the applicable provisions and this bill is that the conduct of the infringement procedure is returned to the courts of misdemeanour. At present, it is an absurd fact that the Ministry of Culture is responsible for the implementation of infringement proceedings relating to the implementation of the provisions of the Law on genetically modified organisms. At this point, it is in accordance with the application of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy in the course of the procedure, the infringement of the procedure against the company that imported the corn that was found to have genetically modified organisms. So this bill, that jurisdiction returns to the misdemeanor courts that we keep completely natural because, because the detour really interdisciplinary and one ministry could not possibly and no other ministry, not just the Ministry of Culture, could be responsible for carrying out the infringement proceedings. The fourth important difference between the applicable provision and the proposal for this law is the determination of responsibility for the damage caused by the use of GMOs or its introduction into the environment or any use of it was legal or illegal. We believe that this is necessary because we must, although we are all in some way very suspicious when it comes to the use of GMOs, we must be aware that scientific research and modern sciences must be monitored and that we must allow these scientific processes to be monitored... I can do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would only be here for the debate and for the ease of finding yours in this matter to say just a few words about the cleavage as prescribed or as proposed by the provisions of this law. The coordinating body for the performance of all professional activities in relation to genetically modified organisms is the Ministry of Health, and the reason is that this law does not regulate two important, two important areas since they are governed by specific laws when it comes to genetically modified organisms, which is for human and animal food. It is therefore applicable to the Food Act, and as regards medicinal products and pharmaceutical products, a special regulation. In both cases, the Ministry of Health has been involved and, consequently, it is a roof, roof ministry that monitors and implements and agrees with the implementation of this law. As far as limited use of genetically modified organisms in closed systems is concerned, therefore scientific research is the responsibility of the Ministry of Science. As regards deliberate introduction into the environment, the responsibility between the ministry is combined, which means both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And as far as placing on the market is concerned, the body of the Ministry of Agriculture is in combination with the Ministry of Health. In the case of inspection tasks, the State Inspectorate shall carry out inspection operations. These provisions are presented in the proposal in order to make it easier to comply again in Articles 3, 4 and 5, and you can read from them how the division of the section is proposed. And despite the fact that this is about harmonising with the European acquis, therefore, but because of the complexity of this law, this law is as you see in the first reading to find the best solutions through the debate. I must say that just this month, an expert meeting will be held to discuss this proposal and its consistency with the European acquis. Although we have formal confirmation of the Ministry of Eurospece Integration already now for this proposal. Here, so much for the introduction I'll try if it's necessary to answer your questions in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29311	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, so let me start by saying a few sentences even though I listened very carefully to the Secretary of State and I must say that I have prepared well for this matter. Although the Secretary of State is in the Ministry of Culture, here's what I have to say. But I don't know if my fellow MPs will agree with me, that this is still a law that would be good for them to sit here and the ministers and from health care and agriculture, and I'm afraid this law has come to us a little too quickly. However, I may express some satisfaction and happiness that is not the final proposal. We have a proposal here. And I pray here and appeal for this proposal to open a public debate. This is too important a law to pass. I think that's something I wanted to say at first and now I'm going to say a few sentences and I'd like to maybe not speak so much partyly if I'm speaking here on behalf of the club of this. But don't let her see me that way. Because I think it's important here to say some of the things that we've mentioned so many times I'd say, everyone's saying. Any party is very clear about the genetically modified organisms of a very clear position in this Parliament and they are unanimously taken up. So I'm calling all of you here because it's a proposal to really spread that debate a little bit and try to contribute to making the final proposal as qualitative as possible. What I have to say about this law is definitely when I read it and I'm going to talk about the principles that you can see here that you're going to liberalize genetically modified organisms in Croatia. We're in the name of the HSS Club talking against it. We don't think that's good, and we think that if the government did, I won't believe that decision, that God forbid planting genetically modified seeds in Croatia, it's a bad decision. That we have a proposal here that the final proposal will come and that we all have to stand up to it together. But what I want to realize is that science itself is divided. Science has been shared about human interference in the genetic structures of plants and animals, so I don't think any of us here have the full right to take a firm stand on either side. That's what I'm appealing here to all of you, we still don't know we're just suggesting, there are still some definitions there are scientists. But I don't think anyone's sure yet. I'm only going to set one example here. What happened, for example, at the end of the 1980 ’ s, many of you witnessed it and was booming in beef production. We had an obvious boom, the reason was very simple. Using meat-bone flour. Boom in beef production. Everyone who's lived in this topic knows what I'm talking about. I think the reason was simple maximum attention to the technological development of the money race and what happened happened. It's only the '90s. We know what was in the British conspiracy. We know that there are many others in failure, and we think there have been unsuspecting consequences about it. So again here I call on all those who are thinking about genetically modified organisms to take with and that example as one good example where we can objectively talk about a particular situation. I won't remind you here what was done in the meantime, unfortunately, this year we opened up to imports of beef and beef from all countries. We held it tight last term. I think it's also not good because we lost one of our chances where we could still base some of our development perspectives on it. Anyway, I have to remind you that we've had concrete examples this year. The example was a few months ago when we had in front of cameras the destruction of genetically modified corn where damage was paid out of the budget. In any case, we welcomed such an act, but I remind you again that perhaps if we went in this direction such as the indications in this law will not be enough money in the budget. We're gonna have a lot of problems. This shows that, unfortunately, the government does not have a clear direction in this regard. Because I think this direction in which this law runs is still too subject to some other international institutions, however they are called. I think that by following all the eu directives, by following everything that is happening, I think Croatia has the right to define in which direction it should go. We believe in the HSS Club that the direction to which we should go has already been seen and that I will also give some examples, and the example of Austria I think is good for us. A referendum on GMOs was held in Austria in 1997. The result was a political concentration of the ban on planting or sowing of genetically modified organisms. A parlamentary resolution was also adopted in Austria in 2002, requiring the European moratorium on GMOs to remain in force. And that Austria is declared a country free of GMOs. When we know that the 10% area of Croatia is protected, the question is how will we protect when GMO pollen begins to fly in Croatian fields and forests. We can still get into that situation that it's almost impossible to protect that surface of 10%. We consider the bill itself to have a large number of illogical and inaccurate provisions, which make it possible to interpret the law differently, increasing the possibility of a negative impact on the environment itself. It is the same, although it is in line with the EU-quoted directives, which manage the proposed law, that a complete ban on the examination of imports of trade or the introduction into the environment of products containing GMOs or GMOs themselves in a country such as Croatia in the process of joining the European Union is impossible, it is possible, in accordance with the Protocol on Biosafety and the mechanisms, in particular, for the introduction of live GMOs into the environment, to prevent them. In the current Nature Protection Act, i.e. which, in the meantime, has been amended, the adoption procedure requires the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment of limited use of GMOs or the placing of GMOs or products containing GMOs on the market is regulated from 101 to 133, and the fundamental difference is that, instead of making this procedure more difficult, this is the one I would say general remark, the principle observation that instead of being from the existing Nature Protection Act of the One who was, we took those provisions and if it is possible to comply with the EU directives in any way, but to make the process more difficult, and not to facilitate it and that is what direction, and yet to look at all that we have to do, we should have acted. In view of the fact that the draft law in question should become a roof law in terms of the legal regulation of GMOs in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. that the issue in Croatia is currently regulated by both the Food Law and the Consumer Protection Act and the sublaws relating to the regulation of the health regulation of foodstuffs, it is not clear why the transitional and final provisions of the draft law of Article 69 to 75 prescribed that Articles 89 to 41 of the current or applicable Nature Protection Act should cease to apply on the date of entry into force of this law, and do not mention the provisions of the other laws, we believe that this should be harmonised. I don't know if the promoter is familiar, but some counties have declared their area free of GMOs. Using the possibility of the foundation of the Nature Act, so here I am using this pay phone and calling on all Croatian counties to do the same so that this bill or future law will not have its effect. In line with everything said in the club of the Croatian Peasants' Party, we believe that this bill was done quickly under pressure and as members of the Croatian Parliament, it is unacceptable for us to adopt such unarranged laws with special emphasis, unknown consequences. The Croatian Peasant Party and its members will not change their minds and we will not support this bill. We warn that this is a decision from which there is no return and that those who support this bill will have to explain it to their children and grandchildren. I can only hope that some other GMO opponents will become aware and that, despite the party's course or a particular party's definition, they will be truly independent and against such a proposal, and I hope that the final proposal, even before it is sent to this High House, will pass a general public debate, and then I believe that it will come in a completely different form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29313	Thank you very much. At the northern gallery our students came to visit the 8th grade O.Š. A little girl along with her teachers, so let's say hello. On behalf of the National Minorities Club, Ms. Zdenka Chuhnil. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29314	Honorable Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. I'll speak a little differently than my colleague, one and the other we're agronomists but our attitudes can differ. In 2003, this Parliament passed a Nature Protection Act trying to regulate the problem of genetically modified organisms. By then, we at the National Minorities Club warned that because of the specificity and scope of genetically modified organisms must be regulated by a special law and therefore I welcome this law that will regulate matter related to cross-border transfer, restricted use, placing on the market and production of genetically modified organisms and certainly products containing GMOs. All signed conventions, protocols and directives put first the protection of human health and the preservation of biodiversity, and thus the risk assessment and determination of safety measures. In order to be able to discuss this law more competently, so that we may all be able to assess together whether the prescribed measures in this law are sufficient or excessive, allow me to point out a few facts that have been linked to this important invention of biotechnology for years. I must say, in history, there has been no case of such a fundamental lack of understanding by the public as regards genetically modified organisms. I'll try to give you a few reasons. First of all, it's a negative information filtering. Although it is a revolutionary discovery that can rightly be measured by the discovery of computers, atomic energy, because it shortens selection time, because it controls selection unlike natural selection which, at 10-15 years of age, can also create some varieties that have undesirable properties that certainly controlled genetics does not allow. So far, we've only talked about negative connotation. Very often, even here in this House, we have unprofessionally appeared genetically modified organisms talking about a tomato that smells like fish. If it is known that the solidity gene of the tomatoes has been transmitted, then it was not possible to pass on the fish smell gene, and therefore only the fundamental non-recognitions of genetics could be transmitted and the smell could be spoken. Furthermore, very often we talk about a sensational demonstration of the potential dangers of genetically modified organisms, so we use the term accident in case of danger. Well, for God's sakes, are genetically modified organisms or soybeans going to attack us, just as there is a way to plant it, there's a way to destroy it. So there's no accident and there's no danger because it's all under control anyway. Surely, the great role plays an insufficient role in the taking of relevant scientists to really explain the details to the public and politicians. Such selectivity of information in Europe is indeed unprecedented and is primarily due to political manipulation in order to protect competitive American food and, above all, to protect European farmers. And here I have to say, and it's already said that I'm sorry that the profession doesn't really defend this law, I know that it's in the Nature Act, but what's already being said here are supposed to be the Minister of Agriculture and certainly someone from the Ministry of Health, because they may be more competent on the basis of the profession to talk about it. What are the advantages and benefits of genetically modified organisms, i.e. molecular genetics? I'll show both advantages and disadvantages. The benefits are certainly the production of more food on less land. Plants grow where they are not previously grown. Less pesticide consumption, especially those that pollute the environment. We all forget that the production of genetically modified organisms has just begun to reduce the amount of pesticides, that is to protect the soybean instead of the five, six treatments that we practice today. Therefore, environmental protection was first and certainly should not be ignored at the time and cheaper production, and thus higher productivity. In order for the public to have a proper view of genetically modified organisms, it must first of all know some elements of genetic engineering, genes, genomes, hear arguments for and against. Today, most molecular geneticists unequivocally agree that the production of genetically modified foods does not contain in itself any greater danger than existing conventional production, i.e. an existing way of producing food that uses large quantities of pesticides and can be far more harmful. Because the way we make it is still not a guarantee that we eat healthy food. Where are the dilemmas? Are there chemical differences between conventional food production and genetically modified organisms? Science gave the answer no, they didn't find any difference. The safety of consumption as well as conventional production, allergic opportunities to be equal, but nothing more than the conventional way of production. What effect do genetically modified organisms have on nature, i.e., is there any possibility of transforming genetically modified organisms into crusts? Science has answered these questions. No product is placed on the market that is not based on science and tested by science. In order for the product to be registered, it is necessary to know and contribute to the examination and construction of the organism. What gene was used how it works on the plant, how does it affect human health? Is he toxic by himself and is he allergic? Where does the gene go around or can it spread to unmodified plants? What happens to them in the soil, how they affect water, but how do they affect other insects, birds, fish? Opponents of genetic engineering use very often arguments, corporate monopolies over seeds and the production of genetically modified foods. It is forgotten that seed is actually the cheapest link in the chain of production, and let us remember that it was also resistance against corn hybrids, but today no one thinks that it would sow domestic seeds, but we only buy corn hybrids because it is more useful. Isn't it also a negative representation of genetically modified organisms actually concerned by our geneticists working naturally and slowly today, that they too will lose their jobs in competition just one more quality, faster and better technique? Many say that genetically modified organisms are a threat to biodiversity, and they also do not make sure that far more plant and animal species are destroyed in South America, India, Africa, where forests are cut down and burned in man’s efforts to appease hunger. Thus, the place to help poor occasional food deliveries may be more effective in feeding them through education and the application of science and molecular chemistry. Rice rich in vitamin A has been selected in Europe by the geneticists of Switzerland and Germany. She'd save thousands of children blinded by vitamin A deficiency in Asia. It would take a few decagrams of that rice to keep the children from going blind, that is, to keep the children healthy. But the problem is that we created a negative image of genetically modified organisms. Croatia will not be able to ban the transport of genetically modified food due to associations in which it is located and which it wants to enter. Not even scientific research should be banned. You should certainly be careful with the production of genetically modified organisms, but also be aware that if neighbors adopt this production we will not defend ourselves because insects, butterflies, winds that participate in the transfer of pollen certainly do not know the limits. We are too small a country and in 2 years genetically modified organisms will be in Croatia. We had a case of genetically modified corn this year. We destroyed it, but no one said that corn would come on the variety list, that that corn for three years at three different locations where it was examined in experiments. I'm asking you, how much in three years from three locations is that corn if it's genetically harmful or damage to the environment? Then why did we create such a big heifer this year? We advocate the limited use of genetically modified organisms intended primarily for scientific research and closed systems. Afterwards, use for medicinal products that are or contain genetically modified organisms and for the transport of food containing modified ingredients, but certainly with a label so that the customer can decide what to buy and what to consume. When it comes to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, i.e. the release of living genetic microorganisms into nature, as we can say here, it is still necessary to do our own research and give answers to our science to be sure. Because in addition to these threatening expressions of misfortune, the escape of certain species, etc., certainly shouldn't be freed, not all of it, but not all of it. In addition, it should be stressed that the 2001 European Parliament and Council Directive regulating the European Union market and as regards GMOs states that no country can refuse to import genetically modified organisms and products after having already been approved by any Member State unless there are justified reasons concerning the protection of the environment or human health. The Directive adopts a precautionary approach, setting up a prior risk assessment system, prior to importing and issuing licences from the competent authority of the Member State in which the use of GMOs is proposed. Since this law is going in the same direction, by adopting a precautionary approach, the Club of National Minority Representatives will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29315	Thank you very much. I hope that this encouraging debate will be triggered in scientific and professional circles until the second reading a fruitful debate, and perhaps eventually we will have a quality law. And now I ask for the correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29316	Well, it couldn't exactly be true, the exact claim that anything genetically modified can be just as easy and destroyed. I'd like to remind you of the beautiful algae of tropical seas that were allegedly produced in the lab to decorate aquariums with artificial fish. And in nature, she ran away by some kind of labore washing that aquarium off the coast of the sea. So the algae have spread, and in world scales today creates a problem, so has polluted our Adriatic Sea as well. And no one knows the answer. It's not so easy to destroy what's being produced uncontrollably.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29317	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Bozidar Pankretic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going to concentrate on one quote even though I disagree with my colleague in some things, but I can't correct that opinion because I know that you're going to warn me, so I'd concentrate that it's not true that we created a negative image of genetically modified organisms, but they are really very questionable and it's good that the Croatian public doesn't succumb to the influence of large multinational companies that propagate that production. And I sincerely hope that this law, and I agree with you, Vice President, will come across a big public debate, but I also believe in this House when the final reading comes, we will know how to make the right decision to support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29319	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Ms. Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29320	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The IDS Club cannot support this bill as much as possible because we know that the Istrian County has made a decision that Istria will be a region that is without genetically modified food, whether grown or imported such food. I must say that this law de facto introduces GMO food and its production in Croatia, because it all comes down to the importance of having some kind of agreement about importing or producing such food. By getting consent under quotes, we can say that we "control" production or imports. Farce is that GMOs can be controlled or can be used limitedly. But perhaps for us fellow MPs who may not be in this matter as agronomists, even though they have different views, it may be very difficult to get into the problem itself. But let's ask ourselves, what are these genetically modified organisms? Genetically modified organisms, scientists have been experimenting with them for 25 years. We know that the DNA of one organism is combined with the DNA of another organism. In other words, a basic organism is inserted into it the genes of someone else, often not even of the same kind and thus is created by GMOs. Of course, it is a procedure that cannot happen alone in nature. Why did it actually go into such a modification of the organism? The basic idea was to find new methods to protect crops from diseases and pests. Over time research has gone towards market needs, i.e. the starting point has become the assumptions of GMOs for producers or consumers, meaning lower prices or profits. The goal then became to win the largest share of the market, i.e. create a monopoly on food, for example, the seeds of the previous harvest cannot be skewed without a special additive of the owners of GMO technology. This goal is also won by the policy of intensive patenting various genetic solutions. And in the end, we're not paying for the seed, we're paying for the patents. We also know that the current experience and risks associated with genetically modified organisms, we must say that the world's largest multinational companies are the largest and the world's GMO food producers, with the WTO de facto supporting these multinational companies that are GMO producers and that they have laid down their rules so that only those GMOs can be those for which "healthy scientific evidence" is alleged to be harmful. This is in direct contrast to the precautionary principles, as one of the basic principles of sustainable development, the burden of proving harmfulness is shifted to the buyer or country that introduces the ban. There is no need to specifically explain the opportunities for poor countries to ensure this. Healthy scientific evidence that puts their population in a position to become mass walking laboratories to examine GMOs. We need to remind ourselves of the praises of DDT and other persistent organic half-pants that only after 30 years of application have been found to be true nightmares for humanity and other living things. It's similar now with the GMOs. New evidence of the adverse effects of GMOs is accumulated every day. What humanity should call for is extreme caution because the scales of possible consequences are enormous. As far as human health is concerned, as GMO food affects human organisms, I'm going to give just a few examples. It was an affair with the Starling corn that was originally intended for the feeding of cattle, which came into the food chain by causing severe allergic reactions and a large number of people in several countries. It was almost impossible to have complete control of GMO food. The second hazard to human health from GMOs has been reported through fatalities caused by GMOs therapy, i.e. unwanted gene transfer to healthy tissues with unforeseen complications. These events can become increasingly common because it is experimentally proven that the possibility of a horizontal gene transfer when, for example, genes resistant to antibiotics shifts from animals, i.e. from grains to animals, thus, to humans. And then, of course, super microorganisms are created that are very difficult or impossible to deal with. Scientists warn that the pathway is open to genetic modification of humans as a side effect of genetic modification of other organisms. In addition to having a harmful effect on human health, there are consequences for the environment and social opportunities. Through the polarization, it is one of the most controversial consequences of GMOs. With GMOs, it succeeds in pollen powder, shifts to GMO crops of the same kind, making them in a different seed at least partially genetically modified. So far, multinational companies have managed to coerce the owners of parcels of genetically unmodified crops to pay fees for the use of their intellectual property on these same crops after these unsolicited owners became contaminated GMOs from neighbouring parcels. The case of Argentina, a country that may have the best conditions in the world for food production, and in which most of the population is starving, may be even more instructive, all began in 1996 when Monsanto came with a new high - yielding technology of soybean production. Farmers have been explained that they will grow soybean cheaper and easier to use only one hebricide and their soybeans are resistant. About 10, about 90% of farmers did not resist the challenge and over time it proved that the yield was 5 to 6% lower than it was conventional. Yes, so apart from the smaller yield, the surrounding eco systems, the characteristics of the soil, leading to frequent floods, began to appear super weeds that are now using two to three times the number of herbicides. Which is the total cost of GMOs which increased 14% compared to non-conventional or conventional pardons. Because of the reduced competitiveness, small farmers have failed, and the rest of them have become the poorer because of their fixed obligations to... they have entered the cycle as much as possible. So you can't see the end of the Argentina crisis. We have to say that yet the awareness of GMO food is stronger, that the green ones have also woken up. And when we are now calling for the harmonisation of our legislation with European ones, we must not forget that now in Europe it has begun to think in a way that they are starting to fight genetically modified organisms, and we are only now harmonising the laws. So, we're going to get along now, they're going to go ahead and they're going to end some of the things that we're just proposing in our legislation. More and more countries and more individuals refuse to buy GMOs. It doesn't even depend on the state of the regulation on GMOs, there's less and less markets for GMOs. In Europe, there are increasingly popular shops that guarantee that they have nothing to keep GMOs about. Similarly, it is already happening in America, where even 60% of processed foods have GMO ingredients. It's especially, so it's particularly worrying about their multinational companies. That is why, in my opinion, we have a great responsibility and this should be a really wider discussion and I, like my colleague Pankretic, call on our counties to make a decision, not to produce GMOs in their area, and not to sell such GMOs, thus fighting against such imports and the production of GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29321	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State Jadran Antolovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29322	With respect to the fact that in two discussions, certain findings have arisen, I would like to further explain something. In this regard, one claim has been made that the bill before you is more liberal than the existing provisions of the Law. I would just like to warn you that the existing provisions of the law sanction only on purpose the introduction of GMOs into the environment or into the product. So that intention has to be proven and it's not easy when it comes to cases like this case with corn. So whoever suffered the damage, and that's the peasant who used that seed, would have to wait until he passed... the whole court case to get the damage. [[Because of the microphone turned on at the Presidential Table, the speaker does not understand]] It is the law before you that suggests that every one who does so willfully and unwittingly suffers and that the law prescribes the obligation of compensation for damages. The other thing that's said here and I'd like to clarify it, it's this call to the county to say that they're counties without GMOs, it's to welcome of course. But it's only about introducing GMOs into the environment. I also underline this, and in the opening statement, I said that the provisions of this Law do not apply to GMOs, nor to humans or animals, because this is governed by a special Food Act. Therefore, as the specific law regulates the area of GMOs and medicinal products, pharmaceuticals, etc. This is about three cases where unfortunately the county decision will not be able to help, which is the use of GMOs in closed systems, so research, which is not being conducted in the environment, because if they were to be conducted in the environment, they would be uncontrollable. It is true that part of the provision refers to the introduction into the environment, and where it helps our determination, the determination of the county to fight it. And with regard to the findings made regarding the burden of proof. At this point, the provisions that force the state to prove that any use would be risky. We propose the law makes it difficult for one who wants to introduce GMOs into any sphere of life, so he has to prove that it's harmful, not state. This makes the situation difficult, so it is incorrect to find that it is a matter of liberalisation. I must say that there are very strong lobbys for your known reasons, so financial ones who would like our area to be even more liberal in this sector. And with regard to finding out daily new facts, I would warn you of the provisions of Article 50(4) of Article 15(3) or Article 23 and several other places where it is explicitly established, that if a new circumstance is known, some new information on the harmfulness of the already authorised GMO in any of this sphere, so both sciences and the environment and the markets may be abolished. So, what hasn't been the case so far, just so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29323	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29324	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I will personally support this Law in my first reading, but you have seen for yourself what bothers us all, including at the HNS Club, the PGS. We heard two agronoms at the very beginning, two experts on this area that they expressed I would say the diametrically opposite attitudes and the practical and the legal ones that come out clearly, which we here can accept or not accept of course. In fact, I personally accept this reading because it leads us in which direction, it leads us towards harmonising our laws, our laws with not only the acquis of the European Union, but also with the Cartagena Protocol and with the Convention on Biological Variety, which is significant, these are important documents and we certainly need to introduce them into our legislation. I don't even think that we have much smarter solutions, no significantly different options at this point, given the state and knowledge of things by the most significant scientific research institutions. However, I would even say that we may have to introduce here something that has already been mentioned, and I will repeat it and I am sorry that there are no really representatives of other ministries here, because here we should start from now on very publicly talking about all these issues. And work with citizens from step to step. Look, neither these laws are a European and a European acquis that essentially solves all the issues that we are going to ask here today, nor is it able to resolve it. It essentially seeks to achieve what, primarily to prevent possible negative effects of transgenic plants and transgenic animals on natural species, natural layers and on our health. Efforts to clearly prevent the uncontrolled spread of GMOs, seek to ensure responsibility for the damage caused by the use of GMOs and address certain technical and administrative-administrative details. Nothing more practical than that. But that's why we have to tell our citizens what we haven't solved and what we haven't been able to solve today and every day. We must finally open up and say that the European acquis of the European Union essentially wants to ensure co-existence, outlines, wants to ensure the co-existence of traditional forms of food production and new GMO technologies. So, they don't rule out GMOs. It's up to us to see if we agree or disagree. I don't think we have much space at this point. Furthermore, one of the European Union Directives insists that no Member State of the European Union may refuse to refuse to import GM products after it has already been approved by any other EU Member State. This is quite harsh, but it is, except in the event that it endangers human health or has a negative impact on the environment. And who's gonna prove it? At this point, science definitely can't do that. We must also tell citizens that GMOs are still large strangers, so the law will not get rid of many of these unknowns, but we certainly seek to minimise the risk. We must also conclude that in the European Union countries, certain insurance companies are already today, this is a major problem, but today they will not provide agricultural producers of natural food because the measures to prevent convergence from neighbouring GMO fields are extremely large so that contamination occurs above those famous 0.9%. And finally, the natural food producer must mark its food as GMO foods which are certainly not good. But the fact is that insurance companies are already running away from providing such producers. And we must say it openly to our producers. Furthermore, we are not yet sure whether to mark and you know that, since April of this year, such food and such products are being marked in the European Union. We are not yet sure and Europe is not sure whether meat, eggs, milk of animals fed with food or products of GMO origin should be marked. So that's quite the third step but the question is whether to mark it or not. I think so. However, no one is obliged to do so for the time being. This segment is practically forgotten and abandoned from the whole story. Furthermore, we must also admit to the citizens that what I have already said but here again I will do that to European and world science, although for four and five years I have said very organised efforts to answer these questions have not yet answered a whole series of questions in this area. If what happened to cow madness will happen that after 10, 12 or 15 years we'll get some new variant of Kreutz Feld Jakov's disease, we don't know. It could happen. So we need to be careful, and we must certainly try to prevent it if it can be prevented. The competent authorities of the Council of Europe, here we have recently been to the last session and at one of the committees, it has been said that all countries in Europe should ask for significant resources to be provided for research into this area and that after five to ten years all these laws return to the benches of European parliamentarians and to our benches to see if further restrictive measures are needed if science proves to do so during that period. Finally, we must recognise colleagues and colleagues what is very, very important that we human beings in Croatia and technology in Croatia are very incompetent in this area. That's what we have to say. We don't have enough experts in the ministries, I dare say, for this area and not even in our health or in our scientific and research institutions. Therefore, it is necessary to do several things parallel to this law and to pass laws, parallelly simultaneously, do not waste time. We need to introduce these programmes in the curriculums and programmes of undergraduate and postgraduate studies of veterinary, agronomy, biomedical, biotechnical studies to meet our practical needs. We must enable professional training of people in inspection services and other state services responsible for the implementation of these laws and for the control of certain parts of this law, and we must co-operate permanently and closely with international scientific institutions dealing with this problem. I again regret that colleagues from other ministries are not present here today. I hope these words of ours that we have here are few and I hope that there will be a long debate on this matter that will hear, that will come to their ears. I'd really like to go from now on all together on all these fronts because it's a very serious matter. The consequences we don't know, I agree with those who said before that we should be very, very careful but I don't think we're going to be able to avoid this new technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29326	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! Let me give you a view of this bill on behalf of the HDZ Club. The Croatian Parliament concluded on November 27th 1998 that it had committed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establishing a bioethical commission as well as the legal regulation of this issue. It is now proposed to regulate the cross-border transfer, use, production and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms and products, the regulation of the process of determining the degree of risk and risk as set out now by the European Union guidelines. And one of these guidelines that we know what this is about is also the European Parliament and Council Directive of 12 March 2001. The aim of the Directive is to preserve human health and the environment from risks arising from the deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment but also to regulate the internal market of the European Union in such a way that no country can refuse to import GMOs after it has already been approved by any Member State. The adoption of the GMO Act will ensure a more effective implementation of expert, administrative and inspection tasks relating to the scope of GMOs and products containing GMOs. The potential benefit all mankind can benefit from biotechnology is its contribution to the development of medicine and agriculture. In addition to its importance in developing new medical techniques and vaccines, advocates of this new science point out that it can solve the global food problem, reduce the need to create new agricultural land, increase yields on poorly fertile soils and reduce the need for irrigation and agrochemicals. But there is no doubt that risks are taking place along with its development. The risks associated with biotechnology primarily stem from the fact that this is a relatively new area and are not fully known for the potential negative consequences that can occur for biodiversity. It is therefore important to consider the possible impact of the so - called so - called influence. living modified organisms, so those who are able to carry on their genetic heritage to biodiversity. When these organisms are found in nature outside laboratory conditions, they become a new unnatural component of ecological systems that can most often affect the overall biodiversity. Discussions on the potential harmfulness of GMOs and the dangers to human health have been taking place for a long time and at different levels. Discussions from populists to scientific ones. If we look back at scientific discussions it is necessary to stress that today, to date there is no relevant evidence that food with GMO characteristics is harmful to human health. However, it should be noted that experience and scientific knowledge suggest that any food whose physiological tolerance has not evolved evolutionaryly or whose characteristics have been changed in any invasive way is not optimally tolerated or even harmful. Knowledge of this harmfulness culminated in the appearance of cow madness because it ignored the warning that herbivores could not feed on the demoted raw materials of animal origin. The number of inhabitants in particularly underdeveloped countries continues to grow, and it is clear that food problems can no longer be solved by individual, individual production, so it is expected to reach out to all means of rapid growth, a greater contribution and a longer term of sustainability. We have long faced food products whose smell and taste do not match their name. Therefore, developed and richer countries legally protect consumers from possible health damage. An example of our neighbouring Austria. The inspection services keep watch over the food and drink market and constantly control their quality because protection of those who consume food as well as environmental protection in Austria is at the highest level possible. GMO seeds must not be grown, quoted, in naturally protected areas and where organic natural food is grown. Following such logic, Austria declared almost its territory in such areas, not just certain counties, leaving the theoretical possibility that GM seeds could be sown in the Alps. Where nobody's probably gonna do it. In the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we think that "Fair of ours" will also take advantage of all knowledge of developed Europe and as a tourist country. Two weeks after this year's outbreak of Croatia's first GMO affair, the government was promised to quickly adopt the necessary regulation to introduce game rules with such food being introduced into the Croatian market. The Croatian government will be extremely strict in early March when it is said that GMOs are harmful and all will make sure that the production of such food in Croatia does not take place. The decision to prevent any imports and planting of GM seeds, unlike the controlled authorisation, is much more significant. This view of the Government announced in March takes the side of farmers and respects the views of experts that the introduction is, under the so-called so-called signs. The devil's seed, the border that Croatia must not cross. And finally let me tell you. The main arguments against GMOs, a few examples. To control the success of the transfer of non-compromising genes, for example, from polar fish to strawberries for the purpose of creating strawberry resistance to freezing, scientists use the antibiotic resistance gene as a marker. This gene remains in the plant and can be transferred to a bacteria that then also becomes resistant to this antibiotic and what happens? Scientists in Cambridge find that because of this, the bacteria "ischerhia coli" became resistant from a total of 22 antibiotics to 21. In cattle using the genetic growth hormone used to stimulate greater milk production alongside increased production, an increase in milk hormone content was observed. The milk is fatter. There are frequent cysts in the ovaries, uterine diseases, decreased birth weights of calves and a shortened life span of cows. In humans, this also causes increased incidence of colon, prostate and breast cancer. That hormone is forbidden in the world except in the United States. And in 1998, an example of a famous biotechnologist who worked opiates on a GMO potato with an infancy gene, a viseba that was resistant to insects and gave it as food to rats. The result is a weakened immune system of experimental animals, slowed growth, damage to vital life organs. Biotechnology gets fired but multinational companies withdraw from the market such a recombinant GMO potato. So, because of everything on one side, the facts and evidence that are still missing have been scientifically established. On the other hand there are knowledge and empirical knowledge. We support this law at the HDZ Club and we believe that we will know and regulate the situation with GMOs and protect ourselves. So be careful that law and science, yes, prejudice and populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29327	Thank you very much. Mr. Tonci Tadic on behalf of the HSP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29328	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I listened with interest to my predecessor's presentation, and I expected him to end up saying that the HDZ Club does not support this law, but of course, as could be expected despite his common sense, so despite everything we have heard so far, the Croatian Government is still proposing this law to the Croatian Parliament. I will remind here of one, one small history, which is that on the far 10th of April 2002 the club of HSP representatives submitted to the procedure its Law on the ban on genetically modified organisms and that is precisely because we wanted to avoid the situation that will arise with the adoption of this Law. So the adoption of a completely non-transparent law that allows GMOs to enter the Croatian market and the Croatian environment at a small door. So we can make scientific knowledge here. We can be appalled by all the known effects of genetically modified organisms on the environment so far, but if all this is not accompanied by transparent legislation, then all this swearing to environmental protection and the health of the nation is actually cheap buying of political points and nothing else. So I'll be gentlemen of the Ministry even clearer. To me as well as to my colleagues at the HSP Club, it is completely unclear why the Croatian Government insists on adapting some parts of the legislation to the European Union's guidelines until we are not yet a member of the European Union. Why wouldn't this law have the parts involved at the moment when Croatia becomes a member of the Union, and with another moratorium of three years, why we have to devastate our environment with GMOs already now. Now, that's completely unclear to me. And there's no reason. If we pass a law like this and leave GMOs in the Croatian environment in five years we won't need any law. You can be absolutely sure of that. And that is why HSP wanted to pass a law in 2002 in which Croatia is clearly declared not to have genetically modified organisms except in two conditions. One is scientific research and the other is in medical applications. And in this case, a clear mechanism of destroying what remains after these scientific experiments or after the treatment procedure, of course, that the patient knows of all possible past known side effects. But in all other situations, the Croatian market and the Croatian environment would be freed from GMOs. No imports, just no imports. Why? Because Croatia only has a chance on the international food market if the country that is free of Geneticly modified organisms, If we declare ourselves a GMO free country then our product on the international food market is worth more. If we make a combination as agricultural as everyone else, then it's worth as much as anyone else and we can't compete with American or Canadian or Argentine food producers. We can't, the end. And that's why the GMO regulation needed to be much clearer and far stricter. Of course the last government refused our law although it passed in the first reading. In the second reading instead of our law, a bill was passed that introduced a temporary ban was actually fully taken over by the HSP law, adding that it was a temporary ban. But that's clearer and better than what's now. Therefore, for all these reasons, the club of HSP advocates cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29329	Thank you very much. On behalf of Kluba DCA HSLSA Mr. Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29330	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The DCA and HSSA support the adoption of this law. But along the way, we call all those in this process of passing this law to maximum responsibility with political, scientific, moral every other responsibility, because obviously from these discussions that we have heard so far no matter how much hit we agree with them, there is truth everywhere. Each of these discussions has some truths and concerns that are shown by colleagues to respect. Clearly here we cannot conduct scientific discussions, for the scientific basis of all of this there are people who are more learned than we are. We are here responsible for political responsibility for passing one law like this. I also wonder what the interest of the Republic of Croatia is in passing this law. If that is the case, I do not believe that it is only a reason to comply with the legislation of the European Union that we are seeking. I do not believe that the reason for this law is that we probably have some big projects that Croatia wants to be the world's champion in the production of GMOs. I don't suppose that's a goal either. I also believe that the fundamental reason why Croatia passed this law is to preserve itself from the harmful influences and risks of GMOs, food, raw materials, anything that goes with it. Croatia has so far regulated a part of this issue as Mr. Secretary of State has said through existing legislation. So we allowed the import of a GMO case that we had in the spring cost us fat. But now with this law, these solutions that we are offering here we are also becoming a polygon to sow GMOs or to produce Genetically modified organisms. clear with the strict measure they offer here. I'd say, with a tajay of the emphasis on this charm we've had on existing legislation so far. Let's say Mr. State Taik has pointed out several ministries that have jurisdiction in monitoring this issue. I'm afraid of that charm and here it seems to me that one of my colleagues told me that a law like this should be a roof law. I'd agree with that grade, too. This introduction I did because I wanted to say a few more things that are probably familiar to you all. That from genetically modified food organisms, we can no longer escape from it. It is simply a fact that stands, we have stepped into one future which is one way of attractive, however, it is challenging because full of uncertainty Everyone is aware of it that a lot of these suspenses. Genetically manipulated food and foods are on our table all of this is among us all it is decent, clearly the main protagonist of this is the pressures of manufacturers who simply want to create their market. The growth of the world’s population and the increasing number of hungry in the world have served as a good context for increasing food resources. At least they've been through gene recombination. Biotechnology has become the most productive discipline, what has been recently impossible to solve now is being solved by routine gene recombination. Genetic manipulation has now become a powerful weapon in the hands of industry, and genetic engineers are a very demanding profession on the market. It's big money that's being invested in new projects. More food means more requires more genetics more genetics means more money. And that's where that circle actually closes. Genetically manipulated foods entered me whether I was aware of it or not on our tables, entered our food chain. And in it they camped tightly. Without clear permission of ours, without testing, without our will and desire. And how fellow journalists made a joke or perhaps even serious thoughts. He says we've entered the era of Franstaine. And the French food is on our table I say, whether we know it or not, which strengthens many of us's paranoia compared to all the groceries. So this is the context in which we are now being technology and genetics are there but now little Croatia has to know how to defend it and that is why I see what is offered in this law as a form of defence against negative and unwanted consequences. Furthermore, in these materials presented to us when a man reads them carefully, he simply wonders what production in Croatia will look like when this law comes into force. How it will affect the commercial product in our country, if it will destroy many of the productions that these effects will be of the lady, the social, and others. I'd like to hear if there's such an assessment or an assessment of this bill. If there isn't, it'd be a good idea to think about it. Furthermore, we should consider whether we have secured personnel, technically, financially, so they have given institutions qualified to implement such a law. For the implementation of such a law, we can pass a law of good, perfect, suitable for Croatian occasions, I fear its application as with many other laws. On page 5 here, the preamble states that this law is partly based on the European Parliament and Council directive of 12 March 2001, he said deliberately releasing the environment of genetically modified organisms. There's a sentence here that kind of scares me. It also states that the Directive regulates the internal market of the European Union in such a way that no country can refuse to import GMOs after it has already been approved by any Member State. This is a very important sentence, my colleague Zdenka also mentioned here what would happen if we were not highly qualified, and we entered the European Union, and some other country had adopted the regulation and allowed imports of how we would be able to deal with it. I'd like to say two or three more words about some of the articles offered here in this law. Let's first of all think here about article 39 where it's about placing GMO products on the market that contain or originate from GMOs. In this respect, the applicant of the application is required to make an assessment of the risk that may lead to the intended placing on the market of GMOs or products containing GMOs. Now there's a trap, to me at least. Who is the one who will make that assessment, or whether it is necessary to prescribe that assessment of what type of qualification and what kind of reference should be, what kind of expertise should have, what responsibility should be had, whether it can be bought with a thousand euros, and that it simply gives such a risk assessment, and then we all go to hell with that assessment and assessment. What time should I give that assessment and evaluation? Because I'm saying, I'm afraid of us when some things are completely unsaid and there's going to be too much freedom that could cost us. And yet related to Article 56 responsibility for the damage caused by the use of GMOs. It is clear that the figures given here in connection with the punishment of responsible persons, I think they are not just enough, that legislation should be significantly sharpened, that criminal prosecution should be tightened for those who cause adverse consequences for citizens, in the environment, by biological balance, because whoever commits biocidal, or ecocid by me is as flat as someone, when someone kills a man. It's a kind of murder, and murder should also be prosecuted for whether she was conscious or unconscious. So all of this I insist on, I insist that it be prevented, better prevented than treated. Better to prevent the consequences than to treat them. Here's to the very end I've worked a little bit on the Internet budget and let's say I found a few items here in which GMO food is popularized, how GMO food and commercial food are tried in some way equalized. It's often said that there's no difference between commercial and GMO food. It's actually a sweet delusion that is subject to under-educated, but also many very educated people. Furthermore, it is often said that GMOs are tested and completely safe. He says of all prejudices this must be the most dangerous, because so far there has been no clinical trial based on which such a conclusion would be made. The drugs, supplements and additives have been tested, but GMOs do not, while millions of dollars have been spent on the examination of manipulation procedures, nothing has been spent on clinical trials simply out of fear of the collapse of the map tower. Those who produce GMO food won't give money for questioning, and those who should give it to them clearly don't have any money. There is no guarantee of safety for GMOs, and the best evidence is often to avoid declaration and labelling. Or, say, when you criticize GMOs, or food, it says, if you don't want GM food to choose the other one, i.e. Conventional. It says it is a flossula that is often heard as a message to consumers who are confused and scared. As much as it's just a hoax, let's say the evidence. Since major global multinational campaigns have pushed through GM food without declaring on self-service shelves, you can no longer recognize what is modified and what is not. Simple GM food is imposed as such. And here I read yesterday in "The Vesnik," and I'll read this short text on the last page, said the European Food Agency accused it of GMO food preference. Says the group of environmental activists, on Monday, accused the leading European Food Safety Agency EFSA of acting on a biased basis in favour of genetically modified food products and of giving associated to the biotechnical industry. The report concludes that the EFSA Committee in charge of the survey of GM products ignored the views of scientists engaged by the governments of a Member State of the European Union and issued a number of positive opinions on the security of GMOs. The authors of the report claim that the EFSA Panel on GMOs did not start well. Within a year, he published 12 scientific opinions, all of which contributed to the biotechnology industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29331	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Jagoda Martic. Here you go. Excuse me, ma'am. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first is Mr. Representative Bozo Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29332	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will correct the incorrect claim by Mr. MPs who said we cannot escape from genetically modified organisms in Croatia. I responsibly claim that we can and Croatia can be a country free from genetically modified organisms. For this, we have the necessary legislation, and here is a fellow member of the HDZ Club who called for it, which is why it depends most on us, and I think that in that part, if we are responsible enough not to accept this bill but to go in the other direction, we can be a country free from genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29333	Injury of the Rules of Procedure in the meantime or is it a correction? ... He can't fix it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second correction is Mr. Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29334	It is an incorrect claim that penalties are too mild. They're not too mild, they're completely guilty. Because if a genetically modified organism capable of further reproduction doesn't control reproduction until it escapes into nature, then it's completely pointless with 500 thousand kuna to punish whoever allowed it. Then he needs to punish a government that has also proposed such a law to the parliamentary majority who has voted such a law that it can happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29335	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mrs. Jagoda Martic. Here you go. Before that, at 16,42, it's past call time in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29336	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have yet another law bearing the label P.Z.E., but unlike most of the laws in which the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with the legislation of the European Union, this law does not put the legislator in an emergency procedure but this is the first reading of the law and that is good. It is obvious that the promoter is also aware of the importance of this law and not only because of the need to bring our legislation into line with EU regulations but primarily because of ourselves, because of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. In this way, the legislator leaves enough space for the first and second readings, and on the basis of today's debate here in the assembly, as well as the professional public in Croatia to possibly supplement and improve this bill in order to ultimately make it as high-quality as possible, and I would firstly point out what is more restrictive. The fact is, there's a hunger problem in the world today, there's a food shortage problem. As a result, science has also acted as a solution to this problem, how to increase food production. So biotechnology also contributes not only to the development of medicine but also to the development of agriculture. Proponents of this new science point out that it can solve the global food problem, reduce the need for new agricultural land creation, increase yields on poorly fertile soils and reduce the need for irrigation and agrochemicals. But the indisputable fact is that there are risks involved and, I would say, very high risks. These risks stem primarily from the fact that this is a relatively new area and therefore there are no known negative consequences that genetically modified organisms can represent for biodiversity. I am thinking primarily of the fact that the potential impact of GMOs on ecological systems and species is insufficiently known, and the fact that geneticly modified organisms can have on human health through their interrelationships is also insufficiently known. Therefore, the need and method of use of GMOs must be closely monitored and controlled. Because when these organisms are found in nature, it means when they are found outside the lab, they become a new unnatural component of environmental systems that can affect the overall biodiversity. Noting the possible consequences of the use of genetically modified organisms and products, the Republic of Croatia was involved in the attempt of legal regulation of this issue in the year 98 when the Croatian Parliament committed the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a bioethical commission as well as the legal regulation of this issue, and requested a ban on the planting of genetically modified organisms, i.e. their mandatory labelling. I will not enter into further chronology of further developments on the legal regulation of this issue in the Republic of Croatia which ended in 2003 by adopting two laws regulating this issue, and this is the Law on the Protection of Nature and the Food Act. Given the possible adverse effects on the biodiversity and health of the people I spoke about before, the need for GMOs to be separated from the Nature Protection Act and to pass a special law that will regulate the problem of genetically modified organisms is assessed. This is good because this problem is complex enough in itself and requires a separate legal regulation. This Law seeks to limit the use of GMOs, to regulate cross-border transmission, production and placing on the market of genetically modified organisms. The way and obligation of marking foods containing GMOs or their products is regulated by the Food Act. These issues of the Law are regulated in accordance with the European acquis, but I would like to stress once again that this law is in the first order because of ourselves, and only then because of compliance with the legislation of the European Union. The very problem of genetically modified organisms is intruding into the jurisdiction of several ministries, which in such cases can cause confusion in determining what is in whose jurisdiction and who is responsible. Then in practice, it sometimes looks like that "more grandmothers, more weighty diets". That this and in this case would not have been the case, the legislator made clear to Articles 3 and 4 the competences for the implementation of this Act between the competent ministries and the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare become a central and co-ordinated body for the performance of professional activities in relation to genetically modified organisms. The conduct of the infringement proceedings was within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture, but as the proposer himself said in his explanation, the Ministry of Culture did not have the necessary professional staff to implement the infringement provisions of the Nature Protection Act relating to GMOs, which significantly made it difficult to act preventively in this area. With this proposal for a law on the conduct of misdemeanour proceedings, it shall pass into the power of the Ministry of Culture, from jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture to the jurisdiction of the criminal courts, thereby ensuring that the enforcement of the provisions of this Act is safeguarded. However, since we know the efficiency and speed of the work of the courts, the question arises as to how quickly such violations will be resolved. In any case, it wouldn't be good if the court proceedings were difficult because this is a problem that needs to be addressed as urgently as possible. There is another newspaper in relation to the Nature Protection Act, which is that the authorisation procedure for the limited use of GMOs is deliberately introduced into the environment and the placing of GMOs in production and products containing GMOs on the market initiated on the basis of the application of an interested natural or legal person and not on the basis of the request. This means that it is up to the applicant to take all necessary actions to demonstrate to the competent authority the basis of its application, primarily to ensure the protection of human health, nature and the environment from the potential adverse impact of GMOs and products containing GMOs. If, after the application referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, new information is made available to the applicant which may significantly affect biodiversity, the environment or human health or the inclusion in the new level of danger, it is necessary to notify the competent authority and submit a new application. However, the question is now raised and the dilemma is whether or not this provision will be complied with, and can be resolved in Article 23(1), which states: "A competent authority may, upon receipt of the application referred to in Articles 15, 21 and 22 of this Act, request, in order to protect the biodiversity, environment or human health of the applicant, or the user to submit new information on the closed system or restricted use of GMOs within a certain period of time, or to amend the conditions of limited use of GMOs referred to in the application. I would say that this word "can" should be deleted, that it should be written "the competent authority will upon receipt of the application referred to in Article 1.", means that the actual submission of the report of what is happening is in some way a permanent obligation of an individual who in any way uses GMOs, or genetically modified organisms, and that he is actually constantly reporting on all the changes that are happening, that is, what he notices and what knowledge is happening. Then there is also one provision in Article 13 and it is said: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia may temporarily or permanently restrict or prohibit the import and use of GMOs or products containing or originating from GMOs in the event of a lack of scientific information and knowledge on possible scales of negative effects on biodiversity", etc., that I do not read all of them. I also believe that, on many occasions, me and my predecessors have pointed out that GMOs are actually something new, quite unknown, and we don't know what the consequences of human health and the environment will be, what their use will be. I believe that this word "can" because it can mean and it can, but it does not have to be replaced by the words "The Government of the Republic of Croatia will restrict or prohibit the Government of the Competent Authority" means, when there is any doubt, that any further use should be prohibited. Finally, I would like to point out the unquestionable fact that at today's level of development of humanity and at today's level of technological development, I am now primarily thinking of different technologies in food production, which are primarily aimed at respecting quality but, quantities and quality, we can put ourselves under a glass bell to isolate ourselves from everything and thus avoid potential dangers. Here's an example from practice, a few years ago, the University of Public Health of Split-Dalmatia carried out an experiment that tried to prove whether it was possible to produce, so to speak, virgin food. So the food that was actually produced by vegetables was not used by any chemical or artificial fertilisers or pesticides. But it was deliberately selected location in the traffic part of the city of Split and the results were such that both cadmium and lead were found in the analysis of these products, meaning heavy metals as if artificial fertiliser or pesticides were used in food production. Of course, these quantities were much less than they were actually used in production, but they were present. So that's just an example I wanted to show you that we can't isolate ourselves. Everything that comes into the atmosphere by human activity, and we know that the atmosphere has no limits, comes into the ground, and that's where it is built into plants and animals. That's right with genetically modified organisms. They are there, they exist, they are to say so necessarily evil, and now it is up to us to keep good and strict regulatory use and traffic of genetically modified organisms under strict control and supervision. I would appeal to both the Government and all of us here, that we keep in mind that Croatia is a small country, we do not need the production of food in such quantities that we cannot produce and that we bear in mind that Croatia actually has all the preconditions to produce, so to speak, ecologically healthy food and to provide you with a prerequisite for both regulation and our actions and to improve it to be one of Croatia's adjuvants. And that is why I appeal to the government that even until the second reading of this law, this law is really restrictive, to be strict, because only by adopting such legislation will we avoid all possible damages and abuses, abuses that may potentially arise in practice. As a result, the SDP Club supports the adoption of legislation that will strictly, but I repeat strictly regulate this problem because it is the only way we will avoid the use of GMOs getting out of control when more is really difficult to get back into some reasonable controls. And in the end, I would just say that the SDP club will not participate until there are conditions in this assembly to prevent the creation of a politically modified quorum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29337	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, the representative shall have the rights and responsibilities, but not later than 1st, to take part in the sittings and to debate and vote on them. Article 32 indent 18, President of the Parliament, i.e. whoever replaces it, is concerned about the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the duties of representatives. You've heard the duty. You are already systematically violating the Rules of Procedure and announcing further violations of the Rules of Procedure. I am obliged to every little, every announcement of your violation of the Rules of Procedure to warn the entire Assembly that the announcement of violations of the Rules of Procedure and non-compliance of the Rules of Procedure is something that should be repeated to the MPs. You, Mr. Trainer, in your usual style, have been trying to make an atmosphere here, you've been trying it for months, but your success is equal to that vote of mistrust to Minister Zuzul. Now there is, we're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. If we are, then I will multiply this and I will instruct you all, to remind you of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which is still called the "Little Constitution", so you may also be considered a violation of the "Little Constitution". The proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms will now be discussed by Mr. Representative Stjepan Bačić for 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29338	Dear Mr. Vice President, members of the government, secretary-general, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the first reading, the law in the first reading, so the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms. And so far the debate has shown that I would say duality or law to support or not to bring it, and the defense of those who say they don't need to bring it is, then we will be protected from genetically modified organisms and food. But I'd get things back to square one. We have already genetically modified food in Croatia and we have some attempts and production. Why do we need the law? So just to protect us from happening to Swiss syndrome, that I can't punish a free builder because the law wasn't meant for them until someone in our ranks showed up there, right? Therefore, we must pass the law, I am in favour of making this first reading as critical as possible and that all these remarks that many have so far in the debate have pointed out to be incorporated into the second reading and that this really law must be maximum restrictive. We must protect ourselves from this danger that what is only worth in Croatia, it is a healthy country and a healthy water to keep it that way and to take advantage of these comparative advantages for the production of healthy food, if this concept can be spoken of at all today. But let's try to take advantage of it. And what this Law, the Proposer, has indicated. We've had the Nature Protection Act so far, but it only allowed us to punish those who deliberately violate the Law, which means proving guilty. This law now that is before us it is broader, more comprehensive, and it gives the possibility of both the intentional violation and the intentional one, so it is much more restrictive already in this version in the first reading. And that's why I think it would be good for this law that really regulates a very important and very serious topic to think about it to give amendments to another reading and possible proposals that need to be improved, and in any case we need it and it is for the purpose of protecting those, so all of us from these illicit manipulations, and we can't just limit ourselves to being able to use GMOs and products only for scientific purposes and for medical purposes, because they have shown their usefulness. However, those dilemmas that remain out of the ignorance of the harmful consequences of such food and product, we must be as careful as possible, and therefore, until the second reading, all amendments and any remarks that make this law as high as possible and I would say as restrictively as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29339	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Ruža Lelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29340	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. That the issue of genetically modified organisms is very important, and it is interesting to say that the Croatian Parliament, on 27 November 98, concluded that it obliges the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a bioethical commission and legal regulation of this issue, requested the ban on any sowing of genetically modified organisms, i.e. their mandatory labelling. In 2003, the Republic of Croatia passed two laws regulating this issue, the Nature Protection Act, and the Food Act. The potential benefit all mankind can benefit from biotechnology is its contribution to the development of medicine, the development of new medical techniques and vaccines, and agriculture, the advocates of this new science point out that it can solve the global food problem, create the need for new agricultural land, increase the yield to poor fertile soils, and reduce the need for irrigation and agrochemicals. So let's say that genetically modified rice is resistant to dry, salt water and cold or genetically modified food is sharply criticised by well-fed Europeans, but poor and hungry cannot do without it. Let us remember how many millions, and even children are starving. But certainly beside these desirable effects... is that with its development there are risks. Since this is a new area of risk, we cannot fully see. Possible negative consequences that GMOs can represent for biodiversity, ecological systems and species, and genetic resources as well as human health, means these negative consequences are not entirely known, which causes the necessary strengthening of the scientific research of genetically modified organisms, their health impacts. Because science has not yet answered a series of questions that require answers. Because when these organisms are found in nature, outside the lab, they become a new unnatural component of the ecological composition, which can affect the overall biodiversity. The potential danger lies also in unintentional changes in the characteristics, virulence and other characteristics of target organisms, the possibility of the modified within themselves starting to spread uncontrollably or in one word when something gets out of control. In view of the possible adverse effects on the biodiversity and health of humans, which can result from the introduction into the environment, by placing on the market, production and use of genetically modified organisms and products, here is the Law on genetically modified organisms, which will ensure more effective management and inspection activities related to the scope of genetically modified food and products containing these genetically modified organisms. The law should respond to public concerns because new varieties of plants created by targeting genes of other species could pose a threat to human health and to the pyrodic environment. In 2001, the European Union approved one rigorous rule on genetically modified organisms, and the European Parliament adopted new laws that envision real product surveillance from genetically modified organisms. This area is particularly covered by international documents such as the Convention on Biological Variety and the Protocol on Biological Security. Now I'd like to say something about the law that's right here in front of us. I would highlight Article 16 where it says that before starting with the limited use of genetically modified organisms, the applicant is obliged to draw up an accident plan. But the question arises how will this be done in practice? The application for authorisation for the purpose of deliberately introducing a genetically modified organism into the environment should then be specified in Article 30. It is also said in Article 31 that the summary... is forwarded to the European Commission which can be shown to it. The applicant shall then, in Article 39, be obliged to obtain authorisation for any genetically modified organism or product containing or originating from genetically modified organisms that he intends to place on the market for the first time. In particular, I consider Article 51 which states that, when placing on the market, the applicant, i.e. the user, is obliged to mark with a visible label on packaging and on accompanying documentation that this product is genetically, contains genetically modified organisms. But the question is, what about vegetables, fruits that don't have original packaging how to label it? The label says it must be clear to indicate a genetically modified organism or this product contains genetically modified organisms, i.e. this product originates from genetically modified organisms. In the case of any handling of transport and packaging of genetically modified organism, the accompanying documentation should be clearly marked by GMOs. I have to say that this suggests that it's something extremely dangerous, which we're probably exaggerating, and we're forgetting about other kinds of harmfulities, let's say the uncontrolled use of pesticides, their destruction, the packaging of the same as many other pests that we're exposed to. This article also mentions a single register of GMOs run by the central body of the national health care authority, and specific questionnaires by the competent authorities in accordance with their work cycle. I think we also need a register of products on GMOs. In order to monitor the situation and developments in the area of handling with GMOs, and to provide professional assistance to competent authorities in the implementation of this Act, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall establish a decision, meaning the Council for genetically modified organisms. And in the end, I am absolutely not an advocate of genetically modified products. I like regular homemade products, tiny little apples, spots, grapes, pears and everything. I wish Croatia were without genetically modified organisms but I think in the world this globalisation will not be able to bypass it and we will obviously not be able to prevent genetically modified products in Croatia. And since that's the case, then we certainly need a law that will regulate this area in detail, and I expect this law to be, that by the second reading, they will accept all of the proposals and classify them and that here we will have one law that will still be able to preserve us from all the negative consequences that can be produced from genetically modified organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29341	Thank you. Honorable representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29342	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the first reading of the Law on genetically modified organisms. If this phenomenon were too, I would argue that the problem has not been bypassed by the Republic of Croatia best said articles in the newspaper. So already on February 25, 2000 in Vjesnik the title "Croatian experimental rabbit and dump site of genetically modified food unwanted in the west?!". It is that at the end of this title a questionnaire and a reference book was placed but it was enough to distract us, to intrigue us to read it and see that we are not far from the problem of genetically modified food. Genetic experiments were carried out on tobacco in Kutjevo, Piva released genetically modified microorganisms in the production of antibiotics and Agrocor imported genetically modified soybeans from Argentina and Brazil. All this reports activist Green Peace. Croatia faces two new dangers, for the environment and for human health. The first threat refers to the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment during testing in experimental fields and the second to imports of food, processed food with GM ingredients and possibly transkine crops for livestock. In both cases, it is something that is without legal supervision, without procedures that would allow public access to information, consultation and participation in decision-making. And therefore, this same activist notes that Croatia should currently implement the November 1998 parliamentary conclusions on banning and moratorium on the sowing of GM seeds, as well as for trying to accept the Biosafety Act, whose adoption highlights as one of the basic steps in defence against the negative influences of the release of GM organisms into the environment. Last year, signs also appeared in the newspaper, "31 tonnes of GM ingredients destroyed," and then Minister Hebrang said 31 tonnes of different substances containing more than 0.9% of GMO ingredients had already been destroyed. That it still waits 14 tonnes for destruction and that border police have managed to stop another 3.6 tonnes of imports of different food products containing GMO ingredients. Today, we would say that Croatia is still clean about food matters with GMOs because currently in Croatia the use of GMOs is reduced to the use of genetically modified micro-organisms in the pharmaceutical industry, for example in Pliva for the production of medicines, vitamins and in closed laboratory conditions. In addition, laboratory research conducted by scientific institutions such as the Faculty of Natural History and Mathematics, the Faculty of Bio-Technology and Food in Zagreb, Ruđer Boskovic Institute is also used by these organisms. And because of the absence of legal regulations and control mechanisms, there is a likelihood of entering into the territory of the Republic of Croatia GM of plants and foodstuffs produced or consisting of GMOs. This topic is certainly highly exploited in the media, so we see the closer we get and we can say that this expansion is growing in parallel. And what is a genetically modified organism? It's the organism in which we intervened the genome and changed it. This change is most often related to the introduction of one species' genes into another species' genes. The technique is called recombinant DNA technology. Genetically modified can only be an organism and cannot be fed. Namely, the gene acts only in the context of the organism rather than as some spice in the food. Therefore, what is commonly called genetically modified food is a food containing ingredients derived from genetically modified organisms. There are arguments for and there are arguments against. The problems of the world's population's diet are mostly one of the arguments that support this. Today's world population numbers 6 billion people and is estimated to be 12 billion in 2050. Some experts believe it will be impossible to feed a growing number of people without finding new and more efficient ways of producing food. recombinant DNA technology provides unsuspecting opportunities in changing the hereditary properties of both plants and animals. And as the aim is to produce plants that would be resistant to both herbicides and insecticides, which would allow for increased use of these products without changing the plant concerned. It would also be ideal to have plants resistant to various diseases because we know how much these diseases carry away every year. Plants would also be needed and found or resistant to extreme temperatures, which are dry resistant or, for example, soil salt. In addition, faster-matched plants would greatly contribute to the improvement of society because it says there would then be more harvesting and harvesting in the year. Genetically modified plant products containing and non-normally containing plant products shall be achieved. So gene recombinant can be found plants, produce plants that contain and produce what are not in normal conditions, such as rice containing large quantities of vitamin A. These are all arguments that speak for, so to support the production of GMOs. However, there is a whole series of arguments against. We can divide them into two groups. One principled argument is that it is not to be touched in the outcome and in the natural flows, and they are known to say, they call for the sustainability of natural laws andpriors. There's enough for them, and we can tell people like that that's scary enough for them to have the idea of talking about a tomato with a fish gene. It should be said that the vast majority of genes in nature are found in many species and that it is almost impossible to find some that are specific to only one species. The second group of arguments against GMOs concerns specific problems. Says the entry, this would allow the introduction of new allergens, those chemically unchanged pass through the human digestive system, but there is also a concern that people who, for example, are allergic to chicken eggs, we know that this is one of the most common allergies, could experience allergies, and an allergic reaction after the consumption of foods that do not come from chicken meat but contains a chicken gene. However, this is unlikely because such individuals are not allergic to all chicken genes and proteins but to only one at most. For example, the Vegatarians would rebel because eating tomatoes could unwittingly include animal genes in the organism. It can be concluded from all of this that there are many arguments for and many arguments against, but I would also use the one: Once the spirit is released from the bottle, it is very difficult to bring it back. So I'm not into not applying this, no, but for a law that's much stricter, for a law alone that wouldn't allow for the use of food genetically modified throughout our country because it doesn't exist yet, have I? Excuse me. Did you give it to me? Excuse me. Thank you. [[Intruder: Finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29343	Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29344	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, secretary, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to be a little shorter. Indeed, we have before us a proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms that is quite extensive with 74 articles and we have indeed heard many arguments that allow for and counter-approach. Usually, I myself wonder how my colleagues who raised their hands in 2003 for the Nature Protection Act, in which they talked about the same provisions of this Law for genetically modified organisms. And then it was said to create a commission of 17 members, a scientific board for the introduction of GMOs, a scientific committee for the limited use of GMOs, so what up to and up to this law has not been done and unfortunately today we only have a bioethical commission chosen for genetic, genetically modified organisms. So we don't live under a glass bell, we can't live in isolation, and we need to bring the Law on genetically modified organisms. Let us only remember in 1996 when GM crops were introduced into mass commercial production and what was then said to be the problem of hunger, high fertility of fellow GMOs, minor environmental pollution, the absence of insecticides and dangerous herbicides, the improvement of food quality, and so on, and so on, but after 8 years, it has not been fulfilled. They proved to be behind them the interest of large multinational corporations who wanted to achieve absolute power over food production. We've already heard that the most graphic example was Argentina, where 130 thousand acres of forest came out to plant soy, where there are no more wheat, no more cattle, no more meat and no more milk. Putting GMOs into the environment and selling food from GMOs has resulted in many discussions that are inevitably opened, the environmental issue, the issue of health, safety, ethics, the issue of costs and benefits. The wider public in our country must learn about the problem of GMOs in the context of the protection of biodiversity in the Republic of Croatia, forgive, and biosecurity. In addition to GMOs, special places are covered by foods obtained from such organisms, and this is the case in Article 9 of this Act. Today, scientific research is conducted aimed at potentially harmful effects on useful insects, untargeted organisms, example of our bee, on faster selection of resistant insects, on the potential creation of new plant pathogens, on the possibility of directly spreading GMOs to the environment or crossing with related species. New varieties of plants created by the insertion of genes, other species could pose a threat to the natural environment. Western Europe introduces stricter measures towards genetically manipulated products and this law has partly managed to design a system of control, the importance of consumer protection on the Croatian market. If we look back at Western Europe, then we are witnessing the fact that Western Europe is now introducing stricter measures towards genetically manipulated products, and even Tony Blair, although a well-known advocate of large capital and genetic engineering, was indisputable to scientists and moral ethical arguments, was forced to publicly recognise the harmfulness of genetically manipulated food. In the United States, demonstrations and opposition to engineering and manipulation of research data on the harmfulness of genetically modified organisms have recently been held. Since I am sorry, I am personally for Croatia to produce organic products, in which organic farming will be preceded and healthy food produced. I think we need to say stop seeding genetically modified crops because such crops are not more productive or possess other quality characteristics of interest for Croatia. We are aware that genetic engineering increases production, huge profits are created, but also the negative effects on the organism are undeniable, especially in the longer term. However, damage to the mutation of genetic structures is irreparable. And it's often said: genetic food to the poor, ignorant and incompetent. I believe we're not in those categories. I appeal to the expertise, responsibility and public work of the council if it survives in this law for genetically modified organisms with maximum public availability of information and public criticism. I think that by the second reading we can consider all these criticisms, proposals because ultimately and the Cartagena Protocol, the protocol on biosecurity allows Croatia to wisely resist the introduction of modified organisms into the environment, which can cause inconspicuous negative consequences for biodiversity and human health unless possible impacts and security measures are considered through the risk assessment process. The Protocol gives us the opportunity to consider each case before the imports of GMOs themselves and make a reasonable and scientifically sound decision. And let me, scientists themselves say, one of them is with, Professor Coli of Oxford: "I'm worried because we have the power to handle genes in a way that was impossible during evolution. We fool ourselves if we feel that we are able to predict the result." Or Dr. Michael Antonio from London: "Once released into the environment genetic errors cannot be recalled or cleared. They are passed on to future generations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29345	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29346	Thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, so I think my position is already very well known and I think it is unwarranted in this way that he is trying to liberalize at all in Croatia the possibility of introducing GMOs and I am surprised that the Ministry of Culture is taking on such a responsibility. Because I think the Department of Agriculture and the Ministry of Health know more than people know, not individually, but the profession of it. And education that was made by the Ministers of Agriculture themselves who say they will not allow the GMO product to enter the Republic of Croatia during this whole term. And we all witnessed the destruction of the corn and the affair of the imported food that has not been made so far. However, in order to simply silence other ministries' crossings with the minister, the Blagonaklon accept US sponsorship of multinational companies and want to create a similar state from Croatia for their failed experiments. I'm one of the participants who's had 12 days of opportunities in America to be on farm property that's failed by growing GMO products. Because multinational companies practiced strictness on them. In fact, if you start talking with a scientific aspect by proving negative causes or pain, accepting the positive effects of globalisation does not mean anything. Because GMO products don't make any more donations, they don't give better quality to the naked create a producer's dependence on a multinational company. And I think this is important for Croatia's words and I think we proved it during the 91st year when the farmers were with us. when we have raised all of Croatia to our feet and we are ready and now because believe me, it is our right as a peasant to discuss such technology and I suppose it would be good for the public debate to rise to that level, because the one concerned should also know that impact. Our right is ultimately because we think that the village vo although the controversial plan must be to put the country as an invaluable resource, that a family should be placed as a guardian of values and must be removed from materialism and recognize the values that are for the survival of this country because we are relatively in the world of a small country. In the value of what the village is is its structure, especially nature protection. If we well promote the effects they have made on the world global market to be corn, potatoes, if we're talking about soya, believe all scientific analyses are saying otherwise. No one's gonna make that product any more. There's been an awareness of the public being used with healthy natural food. I'm now asking the question if our strategy is to preserve the environment, that we've brought a strategy for the development of agriculture, without genetically modified organisms, and we're saying that we're going to keep the eco-social programme to think of the county and we've declared it and GMO Fry means no such. Why the law like this and who it pushes? I personally believe that our government is not so weak and that it is not undermining the influence of multinational companies that does not sell us all together for interest that these multinational companies are going to realize. Because we are so small that they can destroy us at the same time and by selling and addiction their technology impose their technology. And the imposition of my technology can only tell you on one example of soy where thousands of farmers have failed because soy when it's genetically modified and when it's not that I don't merge now it wouldn't be good if someone doesn't take hold of the word of a particular company, it becomes weedy. We are no longer fighting her with traditional herbicide she contaminates the area all around her, indefinitely. Because we're small we can't make a belt to isolate unity. And we're actually victims of all that. That is why this entry of GMOs is one such flossula and Europe has fenced itself from it. Europe has protective mechanisms and it does not know the accidental introduction of GMOs into the field. So I'm supposed to be responsible for that because my plot is contaminated by a GMO product of opposite parcels. Well, I guess that's who produced GMOs, not that I'm the one who proved that he contaminated me, and that's what caused him the damage. It's an attempt at please nicely, so it's not me, it's telling this law to tell this law. I have to initiate the procedure to prove that he contaminated me. No, I don't. He must not come to this production with such contamination at all. We didn't, by this law don't say goodbye, that law doesn't guarantee it. That law doesn't guarantee it. This law of subjection, this law that opens up experiments to multinational companies, would not be a rabbit where we start to grow the wolf, say, which would be a triangle, where my nose would grow as if I had no idea who else was missing if I had a big one. And God forbid my hair grows so my kids don't recognize me. I think it'd be even funnier this way at least known for who I am. That's why all these dilemmas I think we have to make up the second reading we've had to deal responsibly with the population and, our advantage is that those we are, Mr. Secretary of State, the smile tells you a lot about your knowledge and the situation we're in. But it's an honor to you, not to me. I wasn't laughing when you were talking, and you could think what you wanted to think about me. I'm a peasant.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29347	No matter what the smile of my colleague Kolar. Nobody smiles. You know who's smiling, that fellow behind you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29348	Well, that's what you see, you warn me. I don't see him. Yeah. But I see him, unfortunately. He thinks I don't know anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29349	Yeah, well, you can't see behind your back. You don't have a periscope.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29350	Yeah. We should warn him then. Yeah. Not to be confused, I think this subject is too serious and too dangerous. Because we're too small a country to even resist such an experiment. This thing that's happening to us, whether we know it or not, is playing the rules yes or no. It's a different story, but we have to pass a law that's absolutely certain not to give signs if it happens, if they do, no. We must be a GMO country because for now, Europe is allowing us to do so. You're allowed all the regulations that are now because we haven't taken any obligation. At affordable times, we have to use all our resources against it, and in fact, all the countries are actually talking about it. So this is funny that we are actually entering Europe by regulation one that imposes multinational desires, which actually puts us in a subservient position and where we turn our backs on ourselves in a way that everyone is better than ours. I assure you that soybeans in America no longer yield 2 and a half tons per hectare, same as our soybean 001, which is produced there. The same category, the same thing, but if we go into an analysis of that oil produced from that soy and we sell our oil all over the world and theirs won't buy it now either. And do a little surfing around Interente, and see what the affair is and who they sell it to. They sold it to Bud for pig food to goats, and I don't know what. And once again, we created what we had as they began to wound fleshly boned flour. They had crazy cows or crazy pigs or I don't know what happened. We'll eat ourselves. So until the second reading I really think that, and I really believe in this government that it has no intention of making us subjugated peasants who are addicted to technology, who have to buy some technology because it would be devastating for us and we would certainly be bankrupt in that way, and this is just one sight taking all of those and repressing those negative consequences on both this and that side, but if we put ourselves on the scale plus and minus so far, no experts have proved plus for GMOs, but they have only found negative consequences and fear that threatens eventually with the coming years due to the unknown and possibly harmful consequences that could occur. So on behalf of the peasants, I express a great dissatisfaction with this law at all, that we have not heard at all in the public debate or heard the voice of the people and experts who deal with this technology except that we now wanted to place Croatia on a small door depending on the intention of multinational companies who would like to celebrate their wishes on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29351	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29352	Thank you, Mr. President. Colar, a colleague, said he was surprised by the ministry because this is how imports of genetically modified organisms are liberalised. That's just not true. This is exactly the way after this law, the proposal is intended to introduce order so that what happened last year when it was based on your law, the law that you passed, based on your law, you introduced genetically modified corn, so we had the consequences of what we had. Based on that, and your colleague Pankretic signed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29353	Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29354	Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Genetics is a relatively young science, barely 50 years old, was created in 53 when Woodson and Creek discovered the structure of DNA, and organisms have only been modified genetically since recently. Three possible approaches to this problem. First by full acceptance, and he is represented by some prominent scientists, such as Prof. Radman. He doesn't see the danger of genetically modifying organisms and he says that he's not, which would be a problem if we put a gene of a species into another species and then put it all together in the organism, because he says look, so when we eat fish with blubber, we enter into the stomach and the brittle gene and the fish gene and nothing happens. There are other possible and justified reasons not to oppose the genetic spread of genetically modified organisms. Some of them brought out a esteemed colleague Chuhnil here. It's a matter of solving world hunger, for example. Another possible approach is a complete ban. And he's being advocated by some scientific authority. Thus, he too has one of his scientific backgrounds. Another reason for a complete ban can be fear of the unknown. Look when Michurin was doing his selection, he was actually changing the genetic structure of the organisms, but not by mixing two species and it's called induction mutations, and then many scientists, and especially the ordinary world thought it was something unacceptable. Well, that's how all hybrids come into existence and even the negative public attitude towards hybrids was dominant for a time. Third fear, but that fear of the unknown you know, even scientists sometimes take it as a cause of opposition. Let's say when the car was invented then the serious scientists said that a man would never be able to drive in a car more than 100 kilometers an hour because it would break his heart. Serious scientists, scientific papers have been published on this. There may also be metaphysical reasons for the opposition, and these metaphysical reasons go about like this. Atom hides the secret matter, the gene hides the secret of life, and those two secrets belong only to the creator. Man is not allowed to enter those secrets if he enters them he will destroy himself and the world he lives in. There's something about that argument. When he broke the atom, man was indeed brought to the brink of self - destruction, and this threat of self - destruction stands today. When he entered the secret gene, he may have also triggered a danger that we cannot perceive right now. Science itself seems to me too little to know about, and from the point of view of politics, it's hard to decide for this or that. But I'm asking if there's a policy to be decided at all. And if it is already to be decided from a policy point of view, then the decision should be to protect national interests. And what is the Croatian national interest? Is Croatia India so that it has many millions of hungry people to feed and cannot produce enough food so that every food is good that people do not starve. If I were an agent in the Indian Parliament, I wouldn't have any doubts about such a bill. Nothing. He'd take it right away. But I am a representative in the Croatian Parliament, and Croatian conditions are somewhat different, because Croatia has agricultural areas that it can feed half of Europe. And whether Croatia will feed half of Europe in the future, it may depend on whether it will have unpolluted GMOs, therefore GMOs, genetically modified organisms or have pure indigenous species. This law provides for two uses of GMOs, limited use in indoors and for scientific purposes, therefore. I have nothing against it personally. I think that's controlled enough. We can't close ourselves before science develops, we can't develop, we can't follow the world, but the law predicts something else, and that's deliberately introducing GMOs into the environment. Look, I think you should think about it. Why? Because an accident and her law could happen, and she predicts it, and she says, for example, in its 9th article, the use of GMOs shall be carried out in a way that prevents or minimises the risk to biodiversity by taking into account hazards etc. But look, the dangers associated with the smallest possible measure remain a danger. It's becoming a danger. Or Article 29. when you say that before starting with the intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment, the applicant is obliged to draw up a plan of measures to be applied in the event of an uncontrolled spread of GMOs into the environment, and the plan is a document describing the actions and measures carried out in the event of an accident. An accident means it's possible. The spread of GMOs to the environment is uncontrollably possible, but the people of God so it's not just an accident, it's not just any accident. Well, it's not a car accident that can be a tragedy, but it has predictable consequences. The consequences of these accidents are unpredictable. We don't know what can happen, we don't know to what extent we can destroy our own country. We don't know that. If you had an answer to that question, a decoded answer that is possible to prevent, it's possible to stop, I might not have anything to do with it. But not that you don't know, science doesn't know, world science doesn't know how to answer that question. Okay, we need to adapt to European Union legislation. Well, I am for that, for adjustment, but why in this matter now? Look, science is moving fast. In a few years, two, three years, maybe science will find this much more dangerous than it seems today. Perhaps the legislation of Europe will prohibit any experimentation even controlled in the environment. But then it'll be too late for us, too late if there's a tragedy. Well, if we don't have to now, then let's stop. Let's stop people with this. So let's not throw the country out... for adjusting which this moment is unnecessary. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Let's stop at the ball. Let's slow down. Let's get in line with Europe in other things, in other standards. Let's say, democratically. There's no danger here. Let us learn by electronic means, say, to determine the quorum in the Parliament. It is done in all the parliaments of Europe. That's where we get closer, that's where we get closer, not in GMOs. Let us learn that the number of representatives present is not falsified in the European countries' parliaments. Well, that's not hard to learn. Well, until you learn that, Mr. President of the Parliament, I, as well as my entire club, will not participate in the vote, nor will this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29355	I agree with you that we need to learn something, but we need to learn and not slander as you do and not slander or slander. And this one, you put it in your study on the other side. ... Put that in your study, that'll teach you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And it may serve as a template for writing your very successful plays. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29356	I am correcting the incorrect assumption that the vote was falsified and I am ordering that by avoiding the vote you will not conceal your own impotence from the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29357	Honorable representative Danira Bilic. Are you in favor of a breach of the Rules of Procedure? What? [[Employment: Injury of the Rules of Procedure, yes.]] Yes, go ahead. [[Injury of the Rules of Procedure, that's right.]] Please state the article.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29358	This Regulation shall enter A fellow representative hurt Article 14, here's why. In his debate, he announced that he would violate the Rules of Procedure, i.e. that he would not vote, and he certainly did not, I am sure, because of us other MPs but because of the public, probably at these moments of HRT Plus, and because of this same public, I would also read Article 14 which would thus violate the MP, who said that the representative has the rights and responsibilities to participate in the meetings of the Assembly and to debate and vote on them. And also participate in working bodies sessions and speak on them, and in working bodies to which it is a member and to vote. There, so much for the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29359	And does it really say in the Rules of Procedure that we should vote? Representative. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29360	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. I am alive interested in what this Law will look like, since I believe that this is not technical issues of compliance with the laws of the European Union, but that this is one of the essential directions of the future development of the Croatian state, especially Croatian agriculture, and when we already have such an organisation of ministries, of course and jurisdiction, I am also sorry that it is not broader in the debate included, including the Ministry of Agriculture. Because of course, I'm aware that, and in advance, I'm going to say that I belong to GMO skeptics, between those two extremes of fob and phila, I'm going to be a skeptic and say that I'm aware that we can't, of course, avoid having products that contain GMOs on our shelves. That we cannot prevent transit of products containing GMOs or even organisms through our country, but we can in that part that is vital to northwestern Croatia County from which I come. So, to restrict or ban what I advocate to sow, to produce on open surfaces genetically modified organisms, and to do so, and by declaring as president of the Council of the Croatian Democratic Community in the County of Koprivnica-križevci County's initiative, I have already implemented a decision declaring Koprivnica-križevci County as an area of free or inadequate for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, and this is one already oasis with Požak and some other which is excluded from this Law, which I also hope that this will strengthen the provisions of some articles, therefore, respecting the remarks of most of the representatives here, regardless of which parties they come from, and do. What I would like to point out is that in Article 33, I would exempt the authorisation from a reduced procedure, so I would leave in the law the only possibility of a regular procedure. To leave time between this first reading and putting the final bill before this House. And to make the profession more time to agree with each other and convince us, therefore, in every possible danger of genetically modified organisms because it is genetics that allowed us to even discuss it, but the consequences with all areas of life are far beyond what genetics itself is doing, which we don't even know about today. And that is why I would suggest, and we are invited on our own to a seminar in this House, to conduct a broader public debate and that this Law, in accordance with the Cartagena Agreement, which has enabled other countries to do so, and enables us, to ensure that Croatia's country and Croatian agriculture are protected from the primary production of genetically modified organisms. I won't be long because all of my colleagues have been looking back. I'd just say one thing. Today, Croatia with classical production is able to produce food for 20 million people according to experts' estimates. Given the negative relations of imports and exports today, we do it for 2 million people. So we could produce 10 times more with these surfaces and with this technology that we have today, if of course we were organized in all areas where possible. So I don't see any economic justification for letting him produce genetically modified plants. And also, I heard, said my colleague, I didn't want to report for the correction of the incorrect assumption that there was a food shortage in the world, so that was the cause. That's not true. The world has enough food, only it is unjustly distributed. So a small number of rich people have an excessive amount of food that is inaccessible to most poor people and there's a problem. But by introducing genetically modified organisms, this negative relationship is still increasing. So that's a problem I wouldn't want to make Croatia. Therefore, I repeat, I will support the Law, we will miss the Law in the second reading and expect all competent ministries and all experts to complete it and install protective mechanisms. And I'd just say one more thing, so the law gives the Council great powers and great decisions. The Council's composition is essentially the people who will be in the Council because we must be aware, experts in Croatia have divided. There are those who are a priority to GMO production and those who are totally against it. So the composition of the people sitting in the Council will then be dependent on possible decisions and the consequences of these decisions for Croatia. There may still be some control mechanism to be installed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29361	Thank you. Replica, Honored Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29362	Thank you, Mr. President. The colleague said she spoke of her county as a county that they freed from the use of genetically modified products, organisms, and also said she hoped the law would make it possible. Yes, the article allows this to be done in Article 27, since the law clearly states that the introduction into the environment into protected areas in the areas of the ecological network, the areas intended for organic production of agricultural products, the ecological forms of tourism, and the areas representing the protection zone of influence. So everyone, everyone who is in the best interest, and I think that, obviously, most of them are in the interest of not entering any genetically modified organism especially in agriculture. So that they can be protected and that they can declare certain, certain areas just protected from their, their introduction. This raises another question, and it seems to me that today both in the debate and in your and all other colleagues, the question of food quality has been raised. This is actually a key question, but it should not only be limited to whether food is a genetically modified organism and whether it originates from such, some, in some order of some other organisms, but really needs to be asked a question and food that is not treated with genetically modified organisms. And I'm going to say one particular piece of information specifically, namely, you need to pay attention to food processing. Here's just one illustration, rice, when they're peeled off by an envelope that consists of quality ingredients in long-term use, specifically in the eastern countries, has led to a massive occurrence of BERI-BERI's disease. So, for what? It's because of the food that's been treated with rice. And how did people heal themselves?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29363	Replica reply, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29364	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29365	Yeah. Dear Representative Joseph Leko, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29366	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. I feel that an expert debate is being introduced in the House, and we should make a political decision whether we are for GMOs or not. In particular, there is a discrepancy among those representatives who boast that their county has ruled out the possibility of using genetically modified organisms and are also well advocated to introduce it in the country. And I don't see how that's possible. I just wish the government had written from genetically modified organisms we'll get you and those benefits, Croatia will get that, that and that, will lose that and that, that. Since we all say that Croatia has a comparative advantage with its geostrategic position, cleanness of the country, protection, eco-protection, then what are the reasons, the government does not say, but states that there is a danger of introducing GMOs, so I would like to say in an explanation on the other hand possible adverse consequences for biodiversity and human health. So the government itself proposes a law to enable GMOs, while at the same time claiming that possible adverse effects on human health and the country are being introduced. I would ask that we think of a political decision because experts, you all say, did not agree on only the positive sides of GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29367	Was that a replica to the government or a replica of the representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29368	If you're not allowed to go to the government, you take whoever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29369	Yeah, the answer to... Slowly, then where, the reply to the replica, respected representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29370	I thank you, Mr. President, because it looks like you and I are thinking the same thing and I couldn't read your thoughts, so you took a piece of my replica, so I won't do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29371	I took part of your replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29372	It is, because I wanted to tell my colleagues, that by replicating me, he'd replicated with all the MPs and the bill promoter, and that's what you said, so we said the same thing. So I agree with that. And it's possible for a dear colleague to listen and not hear, and that's what happened to you. So you heard something I didn't say. So when you read what I said you'll read that I advocate that in this law or ban or limit it so much, that control mechanisms are installed that produce vegetables, fruits, plants, means seeds, anything related to primary agricultural production are banned. I stand for it, and I stand for it, nothing else. So you're not in my line at all, or you're not replicating my exposure to underline everything others have said, which you think we are. In this case, I rise above political parties and join all those who spoke, not as an expert on genetics, but I guess as one who tells what experts will raise their hands like you because I assume you will come to a vote on such an important topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29373	Thank you. It is very difficult to read the name, but I am reading it with great effort and knowledge, the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. I hope it's not that lost application card.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29374	I appreciate your efforts, Mr. President. Here and let me say hello. Is this okay? You, a respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I think in the final address of my presentation, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, our colleague, Bucan, I think he said something that he has nothing to object to. He says this law, based on scientific reasons, needs to be approached without populism and without prejudice. Is that worth maybe just this bill? Or maybe for other laws? What about our law, or the draft law on artificial insemination? Or is there any other breeds worth it, then is there prejudice, is there populism, and are we listening to any scientific reasons or other? And do you remember gentlemen who support this bill, what you were saying about this subject and only one area when the Nature Protection Act was passed. We weren't so aware, we were advanced, we weren't, then we even had some prejudice, and we didn't listen much to scientists, and I don't know that we were already flying on the wings of populism. But now there are other times, and now as you say, without prejudice, without populism with scientific reasons, this law needs to be evaluated. And I'm really going along with it. The European Union has already had a four-year moratorium of imports during a few years ago, and during that time has just used it to prescribe but then carried out over three hundred analyses and indeed these analyses have not confirmed any adverse consequences, identified adverse consequences for the human organism genetically modified organisms. And it may well be understandable that the fear of an unknown is human. He's a character of man's nature. And you see our World Voice scientist Miroslav Radman, the man who knocked down the genetic wall, that's why he got the highest national award for science, of course in France, and we got a malicious criminal application. Of course, she's been rejected but the damage to that scientist and the insult of the personality that has been inflicted on him has not been corrected to the end. No one, exactly, apologized to him, was revealed to him by a misdemeanor, or malicious applicant, of this criminal application, even though it suggests who it might be. Yeah. In order to combat the various disinformations that are often accompanied by this matter, a group of our young scientists, who use genetic engineering techniques in their work and have established a Croatian Association of genetic engineers with the task of just one professional and objective public reporting on genetic engineering. The government of advanced countries of the world on issues precisely from the field of genetically modified organisms consult these impartial academic institutions, universities, scientific associations, the Academy of Science. Of course our government didn't do it, but maybe justifiable, because it's really expensive and long-term research. But they did it to other countries, more advanced and richer and there are no obstacles to us with the results of such scientific research that are publicly published and not used. The 50th scientific studies of various academias from Australia to the Vatican, which were published between 2000 and 2003, show that genetically modified food is almost as safe or at least as safe as conventional food, i.e. it can have negative effects as this one. It is likely that greater knowledge and greater knowledge will disappear and an unwarranted fear of GMOs. This sensitive topic so far has been regulated with us as I have pointed out, and it is still part of the matter that does not concern the matter of this Law, the Food Law and the Nature Protection Act, which was adopted in 2003, so last year and according to the Food Act, imports and sales of such products have been allowed to us. However, in order for this product to be placed on the market, as we have heard here, several times a provision has been cited, it is necessary to allow the Minister of Health to be issued with the consent of the Minister of Agriculture and based on the previous scientific opinion of the Food Agency. The product must also be clearly marked by a declaration stating that it contains or originates from GMOs. And the Nature Protection Act regulates and cultivates such plants, the possibility of crop cultivation exists only in a limited area. And there is no doubt that it is true that Croatian legislation is in line with the European legislation. And then there's our basic problem with this Law, as well as with many others. So when we do have some kind of coercion, we make a decision first, and then we ask for an explanation. Instead of having our own knowledge and arguments and convictions of something then being brought about by some law and our decision. That's how we find later arguments here, because that's how we have to pass this law. And since we're going to produce that food, we have instructions. How we're going to reproduce to each other, how many of us are there, so we don't care about the world, but we don't seem to care either. We still have some prejudice here and we do not have the Law on artificial insemination, because it may not be a period, or it may be a very sensitive pre-election period for some candidates who do not want to be manifested. But I think it's about time that the public is already upset by those questions that they're asking for a clear answer. Such a procedure, I think, is something that is most sensitive in this Law, but also in the first laws to be followed. The authorisation procedure for limited use, its intentional introduction into the environment, as well as the placing on the market of GMO products, shall be initiated on the basis of whether the application was a legal or natural person, which is entirely in accordance with the European Union Directive. And not on the basis of the demands that the Nature Protection Act would do so. However, what I consider to be most important is that these persons will therefore have to highlight all possible, i.e. to address any possible adverse consequences, the degree of risk, but also the possibility of regular control of the sample. And that's what our basic problem is. So the problem is that the customer needs to know what product he buys, he needs to be informed about it, he needs to be informed about it. Therefore, and not only on the basis of this Law, but also on the basis of the Law on Access to Information and on the Consumer Protection Act. However, as our inspections do, or certain state services that are in charge of control, we saw how much trouble we had when the consumer association just started the issue, a product appeared on the market that tasted honey, the smell of honey, is honey, and honey is not. So it took months to determine if there were any... pollen particles, whether it was in that honey so that it would be declared honey. So, it's been a long time since we've had to control this one single item and make sure that the public knows what's going on with this product. And then what happens, then how will it be possible to control these products if we get that kind of control? And for nothing are such great punishments, there are quite a lot of these fines of five hundred thousand kunas even to one million kunas. But will the public know what he's buying? That's the main problem. If these services have worked so far to question certain foods, then we can't exactly hope for one good control, and I don't think there's any dispute over these provisions, but it's only a matter of effective control and citizen intelligence that they have the right to know. Also to the day of today’s public service has established inspections that certain products were treated but did not have these on the declaration and the public had no right to know, and the Law on Access to Information and the Consumer Act directly speaks, so directly there is no doubt that the public has the right to know which products they are. But just to protect certain producers, that's not coming out. Thus are those who are conscious and who follow the law. I'm afraid such a case will be and such fate no matter what vote you vote or, but we won't vote for those reasons President well-known, what voices are forged here, and then there's no doubt and doubt that you, yes me, have already identified that once we don't do quorum here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29375	Okay, thank you very much. I can't get my voices faked. Something else can be falsified. But the voices don't. There's a lot of counterfeiting in the heat of a fight. Maybe I don't know how to count well. Maybe I couldn't read what's written up there that counter gave me a sign of what was written on that file 79 and 78. I didn't count. I've read the results of the count. Just like the light to read, to get a certain result out and I say so many votes. And I ask you to, I call you to vote because by doing so you fulfill what is stated in the Rules of Procedure that MPs are obliged to vote. Dear Representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29376	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is too important a matter to be a passive observer, especially if he is also a parliamentary representative. So as much as we all know about this matter, as much as we're prepared for it, as much as we've consulted experts in this area, we need to know more, learn more, listen more, respect other opinions more. We also need to respect this proposal and the effort that has been put into the form of this bill so far. In my discussion that I have prepared, I do not see that I would give a newspaper or advance this whole discussion so far. So I give up on it and in time to the final draft of the law I will eventually try to contribute to the quality of it with some amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29377	Thank you. Dear Representative Zeljko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29378	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs! Here, allow me a few words about the proposal of this Law on genetically modified organisms. Without the progress of science and technology, today's standard of living cannot be imagined, however, this rapid development of technology does not allow the overall side effects of the use of genetically modified organisms on nature and human health. It is impossible to stop globalisation that has its own negative side and thus enable a liberalised market, which also has one great opportunity and the availability of knowledge of certain information. It is therefore necessary to consider the positive and negative effects of the use of GMOs. Research shows that the majority of the population opposes and believes in the harmfulness of the products from genetically modified organisms. Distrust is far greater, and it can be shown in such a way that most people in Europe are opposed to it. When we look at these researches with us, I also think that we can come up with similar results regardless of what I said in the introduction that they can be both positive and negative. Who actually benefits most from the use of these products? Well, in agricultural production, I'd say the most useful thing is the one that makes those products. It is also beneficial for those who process them. We also have certain percentages that are shown according to foreign research and they are in a pretty large percentage of 76 to 42% of the benefits are shown. But it seems to me that it is not enough today when we look at our country, which is another preserved oasis of nature in Europe. I would especially like to point out that we have 95% of the natural forests and that the question is then whether with some imported genetically modified organisms we have to go in nature our own and thus disable what I believe most of us are behind and that these are eco-agricultural and eco-tourism because that is why we come into one contradiction. Also, if we want to develop this agriculture, I believe that many will say that we also have the need to leave conventional production and that we have to take certain other productions that are clearly used by GMOs. But in that I would say that first of all, we need to define what we are going to develop, and given that I believe that most of us have been determined that we want to remain a preserved and natural land, then I believe that we should also turn differently according to the application of GMOs. In view of the fact that in this law that has been set aside from the Nature Protection Act that was before, it seems to me that one important item that has not been sufficiently determined has been lost and that is, above all, public participation both in the adoption of regulations and information. I think in this case, the public should be very much informed about the law itself, about the implementation of the measures. And that in this way it's practically a little bit we've been pushing her with a proposal for a special law that she doesn't have that width that she had in the previous Nature Protection Act. Also, in that part, if we exclude the public from knowledge of these, then we can do ourselves one great damage and in this way we could practically come under negative criticism, especially because today NGOs are extremely educated about the use of genetically modified organisms and it would not be good to get the impression that we want to introduce certain regulations on some small door. Also, when we talk about the bill itself, I would say that it is necessary in this proposal that I believe will go to another reading only to be updated. So, we're not going to do any new proposal, then we're going to coordinate that in certain parts there isn't just one resolute ministry which was the same case with the Nature Protection Act that I was talking about that only your resolution ministry is mentioned here, that it should be included in all the parts of the participation of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health and others that are relevant to the exact story of GMOs. In that part I have a whole series of items in which you could specify where it was, so here I believe that this will be corrected by another reading and probably correct. Here, so you wouldn't last long, I'd end up with one finding. Since we have such a nature for us still in Croatia, which is well preserved then I expect that in this correctional part of this law we try to avoid all the traps that come to us from these large corporations that want us to introduce and produce genetically modified organisms and their use and try to preserve our country as yet another oasis of ecological agriculture, eco tourism and healthy forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29379	Thank you. Honorable deputy President Luka Bebic on behalf of the HDZ Club, final debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29380	Not as a representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29381	And as an agent? That's where the club says it's supposed Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State! It is important to give recognition to these people who have made this great effort and suggested that we first read the proposal of this law because many of the world's factors care as much as we do to control the possible consequences of the uncontrollable spread of these so-called. live modified organisms to be transmitted... In nature, uncontrollably their genetic heritage is further transmitted beyond laboratory conditions, so uncontrollably with possible and such consequences. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the problem facing the whole world. But the world must be afraid of that fact, too, I'm afraid because I don't know much. That's why I'm afraid. We're afraid whenever, of the unknown, and the epochal maybe, most of the time, that fear is based on ignorance, and then it's mystified. The problem is the genetically uncontrolled spread of genetics, those parts of the gene, the recombinant genome, and it, if not controlled, can be with such consequences that it creates in nature the development of individual organisms and the genetic impact on these organisms that cannot be controlled. But the world hasn't stopped research in the area of, say, the application of atomic energy and at all these fundamental sciences in atomic physics because of the actually difficult and shock caused by Hiroshima and Nagasaky but continued to explore the area. Point it in favour of solving energy issues and vigorously. It is a risk that must be accepted in, and unfortunately it is not always a successful control of these processes. Here we see today in the world that there are conflicts and problems with the world in some countries because there is no control over the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes but also for other purposes. The same thing in another area alone is a matter of genetically modified organisms. We can bring some, some restrictions, but if it is not brought by Hungary, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia and the rest of our neighbours, then wind, insects and other ways can carry you pollen plants and cause consequences that we do not control. That's the problem. The issue of control, direction, it's the task that we have together with the whole world, and that's where we need to direct our... 10,000 years ago, the Neolithic Revolution brought about natural selection as a consequence of the Neolithic Revolution, the natural selection of wheat in Jericho and the eye of Jericho. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until then, people ate exclusively of what they found in nature, which are in hunting, fishing, and similar and forest fruits. When the selection started, then there was wheat, people began to feed on carbohydrates. And then there were some difficult adjustments to human organisms to a new kind of food. But there was a huge increase in the number of people because people got organized food production. We are not in this situation but we are far away but the problems are actually the same because in this system there is change and often people cannot control or control enough. We're proud to be a country, and I'm going to say that, and a Krapina man is a Neanderthal who has 48 chromosomes, and Homo sapiens has 46. There is no descendant of a Krapina man because he cannot cross with a homo sapien. And that's one protection in nature when you mutated a pair of genes from 48 Krapina progeny to 46 homo sapiens and we're descendants exclusively of homo sapiens. So in genetics, there are also some mechanisms that actually prevent some species from mixing and, and they create some new hybrids. And I believe that genetics as a science will advance in this sense that those fundamental characteristics of our food products, and let's say that nectar is a modified plum and peach, so it has the property of plums and peaches and we're very happy to eat it. So it is not excluded that many fruits and, this development of genetics that is controlled and directed will be for the benefit of humanity, because the potential benefit that all mankind can benefit from biotechnology is the contribution to the development of medicine, agriculture and so on, but there is always that problem, that sword, that control that we can or can't control enough and that's the problem. But we have to deal with this problem, and that is why this effort is also to reconcile what can be coordinated. To control what can be controlled. We can't close the world, we can't isolate ourselves, but I agree with all those who express their fear. Fear of how and whether it will be misused, as many epochal discoveries of humanity have been misused, and also the development of atomic energy when an atomic and hydrogen bomb was created, but therefore the world has not stopped its development. So we must encourage and control it, and when we know more, we will be less afraid. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29383	Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29384	Thank you very much, Mr. President, an esteemed and esteemed colleague, Baby. If, after the debate he had asked to pass the Protection Act against GMOs, then I would say that my colleague Bebic really presented the right reasons. But counterpart Bebic argues that the reason for passing laws is ignorance or protection from butterflies and insects, which is not in this law. ... It's not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29385	The reply to the replica, respected representative Luka Bebić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29386	My colleague didn't understand or get it wrong, I don't know. My dilemmas are only fear of lack of knowledge. That's the problem, and it's courage to admit that you don't know enough. Because giving lectures about something like an opinion when you don't know it's wrong in your very being on the ground. That's what's blaming the attitude. I'm not gonna stand for nothing unless I'm sure of what I'm saying. And since I'm not sure what happens in this area then I'm asking to call, and so support Mrs. Chuhnil who said, let's open up a scientific and professional debate. Let the brave professors, Doctor, the academics get involved in this. Because the rest of us don't know enough. And I'm not ashamed to admit that I don't know enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29387	Knowledge of force knowledge power. Dear Representative Bozider Pankretic on behalf of the club for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29388	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So I'm going to pick this one up here, maybe pick up where the important colleague, Vice President Baby, is now stopping. I could stress in any case that no one in this topic today is only in Croatia but I can claim it in the world does not know. He doesn't know because there's a conflict in scientific circles he doesn't know enough, thanks for the correction, anyway. Conflicts are so great between scientists in the area that I wouldn't have the courage to rely on either side. That is why my discussion and my call was also in this direction that Croatia should not be preceded and good examples should be taken. One of the best examples is Austria. Let us consider Austria as a good example in the European Union. We are trying to protect ourselves here, and our colleague, Bucan, has been talking about this, and let us try to do something that is possible, not by avoiding the obligations of the days, that we come under the influence of the European Union and all that is going on. And that's what I'd say one goal is one elegant way. That's why we in the last government had one elegant way. Mr. Tadic said HSP proposed a ban law. We said about a temporary ban, so he might as well not fall under the grip of certain things. According to this, there is a possibility that there is enough maneuvering space to protect Croatia in a certain way. I have to say maybe one thing that shows up many times I've heard her at countless conferences I've been to. It reads to you this way, there are 400 million hungry in the world, and those 400 million hungry need to be fed, and who won't allow everything possible in a way that a child doesn't die of starvation there so we need to allow it to be produced. But those who say that have no answer to the other question. That today the rich world of Europe and America is throwing over 20% of the food. And if we want to be correct and help those hungry, then we just redistribute. And let's not put this under quotes "experimentation." That's what I believe you as advocates here, and all of us, especially the Ministry, are not just one thing, and I don't care about the Ministry of Culture here at all. But I'm asking that they get involved here and, of course, all the ministries as they do, I believe they're doing it multidisciplinaryly. But to come up with something that won't keep us away from what we're all targeting, which is the European Union, our integration processes. But that we have the possibility of protecting Croatia. I believe that this is aimed only at us here but also at the whole of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29389	Thank you. State Secretary Jadran Antolovic, please choose a final review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29390	First of all, allow me to thank you for a real debate that points to the importance of this proposal, which shows the reasons why the Government has suggested that two readings be conducted. And this profession of yours confirms that we were right and that the only goal is to bring as high-quality law as possible and I agree with all of you as restrictively as possible. And what will be the real barrier to be overcome by the one who wants to deal with genetically modified organisms. In addition, another circumstance will be held in your premises in the Croatian Parliament on 16 December, a meeting on genetically modified organisms will be held with eminent scientists from around the world. Since all of you received invitations and this brochure of ours, which we invite you to continue this discussion in the professional circle. And that through the examination of the framework of national biosecurity in the Republic of Croatia, we come up with a solution that we will propose in the second reading to the Croatian Parliament as the final draft of the law. And take another look at this debate, because at some point it was proposed, let's stop, which means we keep the law in force. I would repeat the applicable law to us just for example the pajonir showed how it works and how its mechanisms are. Finally, he shows that he is acting and that the culture ministry should be a body that should be prevented from bringing seeds polluted by GMOs into the farm. In fact, every speech in this honorable home that has been restricted in this area is about to be prescribed by law. I'd like to be hasty, that those departments are those bodies that can objectively implement these bans in action. I can contrast, one of you said food on the market. So the state inspectorate, to train both equipment and personnel, but in the right places. Not to create new places, new bodies, and to invest in several places and ultimately not to prevent and implement any body. Indeed as a lawyer and with a long experience I can tell you is not a problem or less a problem to get to a good law. It's a lot harder to enforce the law. And here from your debates it is clear that the implementation of this law is the key. The reason why we change the law on nature protection and the provisions that are related to GMOs are simply why the law is as unimplementable. I wouldn't go into a debate here where the mandate was passed. But an interesting finding of an esteemed representative who says that the days should only be punished by one who has unlawfully acted on GMOs but also by a government that has passed a bad law that prevents the matter from being properly resolved. I don't know if this applies to the previous mandate, because what we had was an opportunity at the Ministry of Culture by conducting today a misdemeanor procedure against the company that introduced GMOs should also be applied to this case. Thank you very much, and I hope that with a better law, we will come another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-02-0.u29391	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on Geneticly modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 212. The debate is concluded I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a law on Geneticly modified organisms, any objections, proposals and opinions will be adopted to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. The result. I find that with 75 votes for, 2 abstentions, and 2 against the proposed conclusion.
