ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23254	And we move to the 7th item of the agenda - Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on the Croatian National Bank The Croatian National Bank submitted that report. You received the reports by mail, the debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction. You received the reports at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Vice Governor of the Croatian National Bank, Mr. Boris Vujičić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23255	Good morning, Mr. Vice President. I'll brief you on a summary of the annual report you received. This is the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003, so I will concentrate primarily on 2003, although in the debate we remain open to any other aspects of monetary policy and recent. In 2003 it was marked with a growth in gross social product from 4.3% in low inflation, an increase in employment by 2.5% and a decline in unemployment measured by standards of international labour organisation from 15.2% to 14.1%) and in the situation of further productivity growth. However, this also happens in conditions where we also had a high deficit in the current balance of payments account and a significant increase in foreign debt, both in 2002 and in 2003. As a result, monetary policy changed somewhat in 2003 compared to monetary policy between 2000 and 2002, when it was very expansional and when internal aggregates grew very quickly. Monetary policy, of course, as a fundamental objective under the Law on Croatia, has the maintenance of price stability, i.e. low inflation. However, as much as it can and should contribute to other aspects of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. The core objective of the Croatian National Bank, which is to achieve a low inflation rate, was achieved in 2003 in a way that consumer prices grew 1.7% at the end of the period compared to consumer prices in 12 months 2002. Prices on a small scale have increased by 1.5% on average, and core inflation, which is basically the best indicator of monetary policy opportunities, i.e. the impact of monetary policy, since it excludes administrative regulated prices, has increased by 0.7%. This was contributed by the low inflation in the European Union, which we had in 2003, by the appreciation of the US dollar exchange rate, which was in a good part neutralised inflation pressure that would otherwise have come from an increase in oil prices already present in 2003 as well as a modest rise in administratively regulated prices in 2003. As far as secondary objectives are concerned, the Croatian National Bank, in addition to this fundamental objective, tried to achieve autonomously in 2003, but what was agreed under the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund is an tightening, or a more restrictive monetary policy. Relatively narrow space for autonomous monetary policy management in the high-level situation... as we have in Croatia, where 80% of deposits in the banking system are in foreign currency, where two-thirds of the fastest defined foreign currency monetary mass. It does not exist in Croatia as we know the reference interest rate, as money is not created through normal operations in the open market, but is created through a de facto foreign exchange market. The Croatian National Bank brought the so-called so-called National Bank at the beginning of 2003. a 16% decision directly restricting the growth of credit ratings of banks to 16% a year and 4% quarterly, if growth was higher, then it would be implicitly taxed by the need for mandatory registration of cash registers that carried a very low interest rate. This resulted immediately at the beginning of 2003, especially in the first half of 2003, as the rate of bank placements slowed significantly. At the end of the year, autonomous credit demand reduction factors were working in this direction, so at the end of the year we reduced the credit growth rate from 33.6% in 2002 to 11.3% in 2003. However, of course, like all measures of administrative restriction and for this measure, banks have found detours, so that, of course, the longer the measure takes, more and more detours are created, and then at the end of the year we had more and more jobs that were directed through Leasing companies which were not supervised by the Croatian National Bank and are not practically in systematic supervision at all through ino responsibilities, where loans would be directly meant in the books of mothers of domestic banks in Croatia. And if you take into account that credit expansion that we include Leasing Ino ino borrowing, then you would get the information that the credit expansion was essentially reduced from 25.7% in 2002 to 18% in 2003. In addition to the 16% decision in January 2003, the so-called the decision on 53% relating to the need to maintain liquid foreign exchange assets in the light of the short-term foreign exchange liabilities, with a 35% decision relating to the total foreign exchange liabilities regardless of the maturity. Since it is considered better to control the short-term liquidity of the banking system, which is particularly important in the conditions in which we have a high level... and in which the Croatian National Bank cannot act as a borrower of extreme urgency in the way that the central bank in countries where domestic money is primarily the basis of the highest definition of M4 liquidity. Or if there is a withdrawal of deposits in countries where there is not such a high degree of neuralisation, the domestic central bank can always create "esnihil" in Croatia, we cannot create foreign exchanges, but only kunas therefore need to always have so-called banks. a liquid pillow determined by a 35 % decision. This restrictive monetary policy also resulted in slower growth of monetary aggregates in 2003 compared to 2002. For example, M1, i.e.... the 2002 bid rose at a rate of 30.2%, while in 2003 the rate dropped to 9.8%, while the net domestic activity increased to 43.8% in 2002 to reduce that growth rate in 2003 to 15.1%. The course was depreciated from the euro by 2.1% in 2003 as it was applied to the US dollar by 14.8%. In principle, we have maintained a policy of a stable course, although not a fixed course is needed to maintain price stability in an open and high... economy like Croatia. However, the movement of the exchange rate compared to the dollar in 2002 also reflected the financial result of the Croatian National Bank, since international reserves are held 30% in the US dollar and must maintain a combination of the total debt of the Republic of Croatia and imports in the previous period, as shown in kunas, were negative exchange rates of HRK 610 million. So the total expenditure deficit for 2003 was 342 million kuna. It should be said that this is an unrealised loss and that the consequence of our compliance with international basic standards, or harmonized with the European Union and exchange rate differences must be put into account for profits and losses. The contribution to the management of the Croatian National Bank’s active portfolio amounted to 2.58 per average European portfolio of 1.40 per delirious in a situation where... interest rates, or two weeks... the European Central Bank’s rate fell to 2% and 1% of the United States central bank, respectively, is an overnight interest rate. The banking system. The banking system also continues the consolidation process in 2003. In 2003, the banking system dropped all 46 banks to 41 banks, so it decreased by 5 banks of which four were attached to existing banks and one was liquidated. The property structure by activity remains similar to previous years, private domestic ownership of 5.6%, state ownership 3.4% while foreign banks have 91% of the market. The capital ratio, i.e. the guarantee capital of banks compared to... although the decline due to relatively rapid growth of credit ratings remained high in 2003 at a level of 15.7%, which makes the banking system highly capitalised since the minimum statutory rate of capital adequateness is 10%. The quality of the assets remains also high, fully compensateable, at 94.9% partially compensated bank placements 3.5% and fully irreparable means written off only 1.6%. However, as a result of the rapid credit expansion, the quality of the action is usually improved, the problems of course come later because the assets of commercial banks are not like good black wine, it does not get better over time but usually break down over time, so we decided to limit the credit growth of banks among other things and so that there is no later failure of this activity. The share of loans to the population is from 44.5% to 47.7% in 2003, the rest are the meanings of businesses and states, and in the population debt structure, housing loans account for 31.5% since this segment of the market has developed particularly rapidly through the development of the mortgage credit market. The decision on the classification of placements and potential liabilities of banks that were made in 2003 prescribed additional reserves for general bank risks that could arise from the rapid growth of the balance sheet and beyond... activities with these regulations starting to apply with the bank's report at the end of 2004, so let's start by saying bite this year. The banking system remains highly profitable primarily due to the growth of the volume of business,... the average capital in the banking system was 15.6% in 2003 while the contribution to the average activity was 1.5%. The large banks proved more efficient in resource management than in small and medium-sized banks, achieving the highest activity per employee and the lowest share of operational costs per employee, the average assets per employee in the system amounted to 11.5 million kuna in 2003 and increased as well as the operating costs of the total revenues dropped to 31%. All in all the banking system as such shows high stability, good capitalisation and at this point we do not estimate that there are significant risks either credit or liquids were liquid. This is what I thank and... debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23256	I thank the governor, Mr. Boris Vujcic. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Yeah, no. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Development and Reconstruction, does he? Would you like some, sir? No, good. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HSP Club, the representative of Prof. Dr. It's a famous Leticia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23257	Mr. Vice President Bebić, representatives of the Croatian National Bank. For the HSP Club, this is both a nostalgic and melanological report. If you read it and remember the dreams of the Croatian people, you cannot help but be sad. As for the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, 4.5% maximum, 91% were carried away by foreigners. Croatia's central bank is a big loser, which is certainly one of the unions in the world's central banks. The leadership of the Croatian National Bank several years ago, and also here, the rapporteur of the Croatian National Bank advocated the introduction of the euro instead of the kuna. If you go to the Croatian National Bank and I during the election campaign for this High House with my associates went to Governor Željko Rohatinski, you are also overrun by melancholy. Namely, Željko Rohatinski is indeed a real and congratulatory governor of a central bank, but he was left behind and was still left hanging, I will talk about several elements of this report. First of all, I'm going to talk about how when this report is being discussed and what it's called stand by arrangement, and it's good to always use domestic expressions when it comes to foreigners because it seems frustrating, confusing and generally related to some... and fraud. So when you always have to talk primarily competently, then you should speak honestly and preferably responsibly. I'm going to show you here a big interview that the president of the state gave a few days ago and says this is how the president of the state of CNB should change the course of the kuna. It is an old phrase that was theoretically justified 15 years ago even at the time of the government of Nikica Valentiæ but today, in the conditions discussed by the Croatian National Bank rapporteur when the total claims were euroed at a level of over 90% to advocate for this thesis is quite unserious because it is unfiscuous as it is said but a stable exchange rate, the only remaining... stability of Croatian entrepreneurs and businessmen. Of course, there will be a certain Croatian honest entrepreneur who will be filled with hope as well as a hand soldier in a military who dreams of cutting the military deadline to read this announcement in Free Dalmatia so that a fish grower will show up otherwise a very dear friend of ours, Miro Kučić, who exports his fish with 90% which barely connects with the end and, of course, from his perspective microeconomics that makes it a generous promise, and behind that, there is always a group of macro-conomists with whom I effectively associate and with them it is always pleasant to drink coffee from the 1970s when we worked together for the federal state council and always advocated the export orientation of devaluation and the possibility of state support for shipbuilding. A few words in that section relating to the International Monetary Fund, both the International Monetary Fund and most of these institutions are usually shown in the public in Croatia as some kind of bogeyman. I worked for the United Nations, for one of the United Nations agencies, for the World Health Organization, these are highly bureaucratic institutions, and when I talk about responsibility, honesty and competence, I'm talking about that the International Monetary Fund is not even a bogeyman, that it's a serious institution of even 184 years that has declared and defined its business that comes down to five fundamentals. The first is to promote global monetary co-operation, the second is to ensure financial stability, the third is to support world or international trade, and only the fourth or fifth messages, under the pressure of mostly poor and in charge of countries, these messages that were fundamental received by two, two folklore elements, that is to encourage high employment and economic war. And the fifth reduction in poverty. Therefore, whether this or that government has struck one or the other, it is approximately the negotiating freedom at the level of the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket, meaning 5.6%. and therefore, when it is accused that this or that Government of this or that arrangement, that is, by the way, of the International Monetary Fund, must be counted on a rather frustrating fact that is taken into account in Croatia as well as in the National Bank. That we, with the rest, lost sovereignty in the monetary field and that the monetary sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is one illusion. What can be said in this regard should also be recommended to the Croatian National Bank to make a little more serious efforts on the old idea of creating some more powerful financial institution than the Post Office, Croatia Insurance, possibly the Croatian Bank and some other institutions. There is so much, so with all the compliments of the seriousness of this job, it is very possible that up to two, three years at the place of the Croatian National Bank will be a shopping centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23258	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Representative Mato Church, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23259	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. This year's report by the Croatian National Bank for 2003 is a standard good report. And at this point, it's of great importance. I will, on three aspects and the areas I will talk about, which are directly the subject of this report, show why this report is now important. It is not only important as a picture of what was in 2003, since reports do not serve, they primarily serve to show where there are problems, where challenges, what lessons should be done, and what should be done further. And that report, this report allows it. Mr Letica, the Croatian National Bank has not been in a state before, and it is working very well with both the Ministry of Finance and the Government. It was in earlier years, I believe it is now. The Croatian National Bank has even successfully contributed to the solution to the most important problem that existed in Croatia, which now has its own picture here that needs to be taken into account very much. The problem was called the need to consolidate the country's total finances. To further develop the financial system and, in particular, to address the problem of liquidity which was very pronounced around 2000 and early 2000. The Croatian National Bank has successfully participated in this. This indifference meant simply the kind of problem from which the entire economic system was blocked. It was a system, you take the stuff, you don't pay. It was a system, a state charge tax from entrepreneurs, an entrepreneur from the state couldn't for a year, two charge for what he did for it. It was simply not under such conditions that it was possible to start neither the economy nor the entrepreneurship. That problem was successfully solved. Very successful in the short term. And many at this very moment are not clear how. It was, at the same time, crucial for all that has been happening in Croatia for the last two, three years. Simple enterprise has come to life, investment is on a strong rise, interest has fallen, people have turned to raising standards, buying secret consumer goods, there is financial security in terms of payment. There would be no possibility of investment, of building roads, of borrowing, of attracting foreign capital, and the rest of it wouldn't have been if it had remained the indifference it had been. None of the 188 zones that are in Croatia today, and any of them in 99, 20 could be developed, etc. What are the problems, I will show you in which the Croatian National Bank participated in the resolution, I will show you on the next. When we went to the European financial market in 2000, then in a very democratic, very advanced country, a strong financial institution, we sat at the table, one of the people from the National Bank who was also here at that meeting told us, you're a small-time nationalist, who you just need to figure out what you want, then we'll talk. We rose from the table and left, but after a year and a half, that institution came to us and is now one of the big financiers in Croatia. Because things just changed. We have started under these conditions in which the Croatian National Bank has been struggling with how to set financial flows with 380 points of base points above the reference interest rate which makes up a 10-year Bundes Bank bond rebellion as the strongest financial size. It was an investment risk measure in Croatia. That was 2,000. Last year, those 380 were reduced to 75. In three years in Croatia, 5.5 times the risk of investment has been reduced, and so many times it has been stimulated and engaged in foreign capital that it comes here. That's why we were able to make a good debt, so we can refinance our debts without problems today, so we can look at development with optimism further, if we know how to create it. As you can see from the report it's very clear, and here the deputy governor emphasized it, monetary policy has been extensive enough in some years even incredibly up to 30% and not M1, but M4 as well. While inflation at the same time at the same time averaged about 1.6. What's the matter? None of the experts believed in it. As you can see from this report, gentlemen, and last year, the cash mass rose 9.8%. But so is credit emissions, or bank claims from the non-financial sector 14.6%, so it's expansion enough again to support that economic activity that has its own base. At the same time, stability was achieved. Therefore, monetary policy has played an important role in this part, together with the Government and Ministry of Finance programme, to break liquidity and advance financial overall flows. I will also tell you that, at the same time, a new system of payment, foreign exchange, Law and Banks has been introduced, funds, registers and finances have been introduced, and the finances of the Croatian state are today, in this respect, settled finances in relation to the previous situation, and they are the strongest support that can continue in Croatia. Here is Mr Letica saying that the Croatian National Bank is at a loss. And that it's outrageous, that the central bank should be at a loss that it's nowhere in the world. Bank de France is at a loss. The Central Bank of the European Union of IBS is at a loss. It's just a technical question. For those who know monetary policy. Here's the accounting question. Namely, the National Bank balance sheet is leveled at 31.12. Last year, the exchange rate was 7.64. If it was 7.69, which was two days later, the balance would have been in the plus. So it's clean because two days after that they were in the plus. So that's quite a side question. And it can't be a measure of work. Here, that's the first important fact. The second one I'd like to warn you about is the next one. It is seen from this report by the Croatian National Bank that it participated in an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund in 2003. Moreover, there are clear facts here about the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund in 2003 in the monetary part being very successful. So here we have heard that an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund in 2003 has not been achieved and has actually produced the problems that the Government is now having. Here you have a report on how it is fully accomplished not only in the monetary part but also in other segments. Gentlemen, let me tell you the first review of the results of the 2003 International Monetary Fund was positive. The other one was positive. The third in December 2003 was positive, with the fact that the Croatian National Bank here requested that it be the final report on the positive implementation of the stand by the arrangement in 2003, but the IMF said we must wait and see the state budget for 2004 because then much is seen and this arrangement extended to the beginning of 2004. Here, gentlemen, with responsibility, I claim that the arrangement with the International Monetary Fund in 2003 did not lead to anything that today's government accepts such an arrangement as it has accepted with the International Monetary Fund. There is no reason in this report, you have read it, it is complete, financial and fiscal in another respect which should have led to the acceptance of such a slowdown in investment and development as it contains stand by arrangement of social restrictions, freezing the mass of wages and also at that level of pension, to enter into this arrangement the provision that milk, medicines, nutrition, bread will be introduced in... and about Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23260	We've been discussing it all day, Mr. Churchman. Switch to the Croatian National Bank Report.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23261	I am very specific about the fact that this report confirms that what has been established here, that what it has been, that the past year and the implementation of an arrangement with the IMF has conditioned that this arrangement with the IMF is now accepted because this report does not confirm how much you have read it. It's very precise here, and I'm talking about it. It does not produce any need to go on such a return to privatisation as is now accepted, to privatise up to 800 companies through several weeks until Christmas, to privatise the entire portfolio by 30.6. and to shut down the account of the Privatisation Fund, to reduce support in order etc. And as we can see, with all these restrictions, debt is equally growing in the central states. This report shows that there was no need for this, and if we agree on something, then you will agree that this is the relevant fact and message of this report. Now allow more at the end of the next. We received this report by direct invitation to him letter received it actually by President Shakespeare of the Croatian National Bank. What exactly is this about? In this report, two places read the opening and more in the material that read that the budget deficit was in 2003. 5.1%. This report was made at the end of May and has been on the Croatian National Bank's website since the beginning of June. Of course, the government told the Croatian National Bank this is a real problem. The Croatian National Bank said but that's your data. According to them, a 5.1% deficit was made in the sixth month of this year. Of course, the government said to agree we have another formula and, of course, Governor Rohatinski wrote us a letter that he sent along with this report and said, "The formula 1 deficit was 5.1," and it says. According to formula two people, in the meantime we agreed the deficit is 6.3. But be careful, there are two more formulas. Formula 3 is next if all the reconstructions are involved on the burden of one year and the government has accepted it needlessly and thus gave the IMF the right to grab us by the throat, if it has accepted various other HZ, HBOR obligations, why it did not take the shipbuilding as well. It's just as state-owned as shipbuilding. Why didn't she take her picks in Slavonia and do something about them? If she'd done it, she could have. Then, according to that third formula, this deficit would be significantly greater than 6.3%. But watch out, there's a fourth formula. According to that formula, the deficit could have been slightly less than 5%, not than 4%, less than 3.5%, and you'll easily add that up because I'm only going to tell you three digits. At the end of last year, it could easily have been slowed down to highway construction, but it would have been bad because it was a nice time, there were people and machines. Besides, you'd be in a lot of trouble. The summer was rain, and you couldn't work, you wouldn't connect the road, and you'd lose your toll. It would be foolish, bad for Croatia and if it had been done and slowed down then it would have been consistent with some figures and then the deficit would have been lower by 1.6 billion. We could also pick up dividends from public companies only from HT 2.3 billion but Jurcic and others set it up with programmes that were precise, of which there is no more speech because it is spent this year in the budget, etc. Last year's budget could have included 55m and many more of what I can now count and the deficit would have been significantly lower. Gentlemen, the deficit would be about 3.5. Now he's by the formula we can agree on but the fact is next. The deficit needs to be managed and that's all that matters. He can be bigger without being dangerous. Many countries have entered with greater entry. Also, new projects need to be developed; they simply need to be developed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23262	Excuse me, Mr. Churchman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23263	Let me say one more sentence. The government needs to respond to the difficulties of its activities, otherwise we will definitely fall into difficulties, not by the government, but by Croatia, Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23264	Thank you very much. Mr. Churchvenac, you're away from the topic and the last file from Governor Rohatinski is 6.3%. Here's a correction to Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23265	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In his debate on the Croatian National Bank Report, Mr. Churchvenac said that such urgent privatisation is not needed by mentioning the flock by arrangement of the Republic of Croatia with the IMF. Namely, this is an incorrect quote from Mr. Churches because I quote from the obligation to stand by an arrangement from February 11th 2003. The government is determined to sell all public enterprises and maintain a minority stake in only some of them, the Croatian Privatisation Fund expects to reduce its joint service from around 1100 enterprises by one half by the end of 2003. The government is making a decision by the end of March 2003 on Ina privatisation bids, 25% plus one share. HEP will complete the division into separate enterprises for the production, transmission and distribution of electricity during 2003. And the privatisation of the power plant in 2004. In 2003, the government plans to sell 30% of Croatia's insurance on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, Croatia's postal bank will be privatised in the phases by first selling 25% of the shares to international financial corporation in 2003 and then by selling 26 and so on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23266	Thank you Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representativek Dr. Prof. It's a famous Leticia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23267	It is not the exact quote of Mr. Mate fellow Dr. Mate Churches where he claims the Croatian National Bank was not put to waste and attributed to me a statement that I said it was left behind. That's incorrect. He has the right to be angry I just wanted to say that the Governor of the Croatian National Bank of Željko Rohatinski has been systematically since 2001 in referring to the explosive growth of external borrowing and that he has been ignored and that the result of this explosion of debt. So Mate Churchman can be angry, and that's good information, and I'm glad that most of the reports are directed towards me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23268	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the HD ClubFor Mr. Representative of the Shyma Rifle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23269	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a report from the CNB on 2003. Of course this report was done and it was immediately at the start and I get it done before the final recording of the situation and then there was a correction that even though it could be sports, which is the position of the deficit. Of course, we could become a question of other elements of macroeconomic policy on purpose. I'm not setting that up. And after this I would pray at the end of the signage when it is in the name of the CNB in the obvious around the presses about which data were forced or not given. On behalf of the HDZ Club, I can tell right away that we will accept this report. Although it refers to the last year of the previous term of office with all elements. However, I would also like to point out how short it is possible to point out in certain areas, certain conditions, as well as trends in the verse of the situation. Because the phenomena are of course in time but they have the consequences of something or influence and will continue certain processes in the next time. And anyway, I just want to point out the basic macro-economys because we might be able to polymerize in the details here for days. In this respect, it should also be pointed out that this report was made on the basis of available data and information from the CNB. And unfortunately, in the data collection system in Croatia, we have 3, 4 at least basic levels and others that can sometimes have different grades. So perhaps even in that movement of macroeconomic policy, these are the basic data from the state statistical data office that collects Finn or processes or benefits. And the data that the CNB has that it's probably using each other and its own data that the report does on that basis. So this report was based on the data that the CNB had on it and it shows a fundamental trend of movement in the last year. We're talking about that year, and that solid economic growth I'll comment on shortly after he contains this report. Then about the low inflation we heard about coming back around 1.8. A major deficit in the current balance of payments account, fiscal deficits and strong foreign debt growth is a fundamental feature of this report and movement. And now for a brief discussion about what was actually going on. The economy was stimulated by the growth of the economy to this rate has a trend of decline compared to the previous year. And I want to say with the foundation and this data that was considered at the end of the year that this trend of decline has continued since the end of the year and at the beginning of the first quarter, which we will later see when the reports come in this period that we are looking at. So that's the impact of the previous decline compared to the previous year and then the trend falls towards the end of the year. And a follow-up at the beginning and a real quarter this year. Drugo, however, that investments have really increased around 16.8%, but this increase is particularly characterised by investment in public infrastructure. And especially in this sector, the most significant increase. And the second increase is in the consumption sector and we'll see that's the question now of the lease later or other consumption modes in which that consumption is then being overrun and actually once again on imports, which then affects the balance of payments deficit. And this is either imports or permanent consumer goods, or consumer goods, and the primarily increase in consumption or purchase of cars characterizes that sector in the previous year. Also in the imports the goods imports had also a strong increase which I briefly linked in one and another trend and then, of course, through that increase imports later through export alignment we have a situation that the coverage is somewhere around 48% of the total coverage of imports and exports. Therefore, for this period, the characteristic and the drop in unemployment rates, or the increase in employment as we wish to define. Translate. But here, too, can be discussed and not polluted with the report, but discussed the same thing about changing the methodology of the calculation or the methodology of the records. And the works of the legislative solution last year. Just like the years before. So that part also has a certain trend of movement in the next year and now a sequel to this period that we have. We said inflation that she was stable, and I remind you, and we'll do that again in the debate when she does because we tied up a brief debate stand by that in the stand by way of a finding that in the next period she'll be between, it could be between 2% and 3%. In this time it is characteristic and perhaps there are certain connections and a strong conversion that was somewhere, it seems to me at the end of 2001 or 2002 somewhere, a conversion to all of these conversions of the mark into the euro. I remember that Croats love their kuna but that they mostly kept their savings in marks and mostly at home. And with this change in the conversion, which was thus determined by a higher force, the conversion had a strong impact on both the savings in banks and all sectors of savings. And we had a strong expansion. Then of course that expansion caused later expansion in the sector of consumption. In that part of the credited increase in other debts. And in this sense, certainly, that during this period, the depreciation of the kuna is characterized by the euro, and by the appreciation of the dollar and the tendency. Here we see then we are usually hit by one sector or another CNB autonomously regulates the position of macroeconomic policy in part of individual sectors. In particular, the shipbuilding was under fire for the reckoning of the dollar. And the services that are related to it. Now these days, we have a tendency to change again, but it's being suggested that this part will stabilize and that the tendencies will be driven somewhere in that way by the information that is available. Thus, this appreciation of the dollar will likely retain some of the trends it has in this period. The following is the current balance of payments account, we have a deficit somewhere around 7.2%, and part of the trend of movement was influenced by these previous movements, as well as especially by the situation in exports primarily, because later this year, of course, they will discuss encouraged measures and opportunities for export empowerment, and we see in this year and this period that these exports were not able to monitor those trends of imports that we had in this distribution for different reasons. I particularly point out that in the past year, and I also said in the introduction there was a strong increase in external debt, and now we can briefly explain this sector, because it's different, we have an increase in external debt in the debt of the state, perhaps the largest in the banking sector, which is the import of capital, which is then relocated to the country's market, because we see that the sector is growing later in public, or in the market of shares, which then reflects again or flows from external debt to domestic debt, and then eventually, again, it ends largely in the country. With one part of that capital imports also end in the consumption sector, and since the consumption structure is made up of goods re-exported, then, of course, that impact is again in some way reflected in the debt of the total population or states throughout this sector, so that this trend of debt somewhere around, between $8.5-9 billion, is partly due to the fact that it is conditioned by exchange rate differences, which is this sector of appreciation, the depreciation that is conditioned during that period, as well as other trends. About the banks, we also heard the situation that it is. It is true that banks have their own autonomous policy, but it is also true that the Government, both the previous and future through macroeconomic policy, can and must influence certain trends and that the National Bank has been able to do so in this time towards the instrumentation that it had, and we have seen here the measures that the bank has regulated, or the CNB regulated this banking sector, that it has been doing it mostly, and that all stories about why the banks today are foreign, why the capital is in them, should be subordinated to the objective of how we can use this potential in terms of debt, external debt, here macroeconomic policies and exchange stability, which then reflects the situation in the economy. It has also been said that banks have, of course, tried to respond to monetary policy measures, their new measures, so they have introduced a Leasing which has its own invitations, but there are also other parties in which it is mainly not recorded and in the debt sector, so that it is likely that, in the following measures, it will also be necessary to consider in the CNB and in the management of statistical data, the role of leasing in that mass, the monetary mass that moves within the country with the aim of stabilising the exchange rate should also be considered. It's a matter of losing the CNB. I'm just pointing out that he seems to me to be about 341, 342 million kuna. It is a fact, the fact that about a third of the funds of the reserve are located in dollars and that it is through those exchange rates that have been conditioned, of course, can also be analysed whether it could have been like this or such, or why, of course, and in that sense, I think that and the stories that our national bank is the only one of the transition countries that has lost, but the fact that this structure within is affecting this loss, and I think that we especially shouldn't, we don't encourage it in particular in that part. Now what's in the part of fiscal policy, but after shooting after this report, which I ask once again to show in the end is that the country's deficit is 6.3% with the previous year and I don't want to point out the differences between one, the other and five solutions anymore, but to finally take it down and make it clear, but certainly, that deficit of 6.3% changes the picture of that report and something of course, if all the data were processed, something else would have been shown. The same raises the question that this budget deficit and deficit should and may be in the next year this year, and the next estimates are reduced, but of course also the debt, because one part serves the same part, should be reduced under the use of domestic funding sources, and earlier I have commented that there is a certain causative link between these domestic sources of funding and capital that has its source back in foreign debt, but then in the second sector, which again makes up the total debt. In monetary policy, I point out only one piece of information, again I say the short link between the previous period and the trend of impact on the next period that the relative growth of gross national income was 4.3, but that it tended to decline from 5.2 in the previous period, in the previous year. Therefore, these are certain trends which can neither be stopped at the moment of date or calculation, but the measures taken in the next period are very much directed in the next paragraph that they have a different trend of movement in the time that is then coming. We have already said that the highest impact on this growth in gross national income is very interesting, only the time is short, the interesting structure of this increase in gross national income in this structure has been particularly affected by investment in fixed capital and has already been told why. Here, in the end, another data to record a 4% drop in industrial production compared to the previous year of 5.7%. So these are certain tendencies that then point to that. And given the end of time, in the structure of total construction or value of investments in the sector are roads 60, relatively 60 percent, and 40 percent of all. So, as they are finished, so will need to restructure the changes within it, and in the end it seems to me that it would be necessary to point out that there are countless data that would still be what I said about the stock exchanges, but that they are still stabilised gradually, particularly the bonds of the state and ultimately it would be desirable to achieve a higher degree of cooperation between all segments of society in the conduct and macro-economic policy, but especially then monetary, fiscal and other segments of politics. And that will never be enough, so I think that this too needs to be moved forward in order to improve the overall work and achieve better trends in the next period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23270	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Luka Roic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23271	I thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished gentlemen from the Croatian National Bank. My speech on the Croatian National Bank report will actually begin with a statement by Professor Letica on the Croatian wallet in the Croatian pocket. Unfortunately, many have tried to successfully break the Croatian wallet out of the Croatian pocket, and many among other things by holding a tight Croatian right in the Croatian heart, while completely recklessly and recklessly achieving open Croatian pockets and Croatian wallets and coins have remained empty as feathers and wallets. And gentlemen, that is quite clear and living truth. But I will not talk about it at this third time, but I will dedicate myself to the Croatian National Bank's report, in which the report can be clearly read both the past and the future of the Croatian economic mix. The data contained inside is quite accurate and I think it's professionally made in a very high-quality way, but I think that all of us will be quick to discuss some of the important topics that can be read from this report. Very soon we will have to think and talk about a stable or fixed exchange rate. Unfortunately, we will also have to discuss international reserves, their function and role in the economic growth of the Croatian state and Croatian economy. I think we're also going to have to talk seriously about all these problems that everyone's been talking about, the environment and the size of foreign and public debt. It's all real, it's all really our economic realities. I think it is necessary, and I think that both professional and professional people are already having serious debates, so I expect that the Croatian Parliament will also talk about it and openly propose solutions that are better or that we think the herbs would fit the economic moment. The Croatian People's Granny's Report reads, and we all saw stable economic growth in 2003 with low inflation and a stable exchange rate of kuna. Unfortunately, the current balance of payments account deficit, fiscal deficit and strong foreign debt growth, which I said to economic policymakers, give new tasks to address this problem. In order for the state to reduce the deficit of each government to stay away from the policy of unrealistic promises that have been made so far, you will admit it wasn't the case. It must give up policies based on consumption, which is now a regular practice so far, because it is a direct blow to the budget. Any excess of the expenditure plan has been consolidated by countries in general is financed from foreign sources or from funds realised from privatisation, and lately we have witnessed the sale of significant economic systems of strategic importance to the Republic of Croatia. In the event of a failure to support the adopted policy with the planned and tolerable deficit, poor fiscal policy would result in a negative credit rating, credit refinancing and growth of the budget deficit. The problem of responsibilities is not a problem since yesterday, as is often said, but rather a more constant one that continues over the past 15 years of the existence of the Croatian state, and we are in charge, we must make it quite clear and publicly, and take it over from the former state as well. And on this occasion, I want to remind you that debts are like a snowball, the more you roll it, the bigger and bigger it gets. According to the Croatian National Bank, $2.8 billion in debt is the result of a loss of the US dollar, which is quite true. No matter how debts have arisen for objective or some other reasons, debt certainly needs to be paid back, regardless of whether it is a debt of the state, whether it is a debt of banking institutions, whether it is a debt of businesses or citizens of the Croatian state. In 2005 and 2006 at the charge of each year, I will remind you of EUR 3.4 billion, and we are rightly afraid of problems with the refinancing of these commitments, and for this reason I am of the opinion that the restrictive measures of the Croatian National Bank are fully justified. Due to the poor movement of foreign debt and debt in the current account, the Croatian National Bank has rightly adopted a mandatory reserve on which banks must deposit 35% of the value of their foreign exchange liabilities with central financial institutions and maintain this relationship every day. It also adopted a mandatory entry of the Croatian National Bank's cash registers at an interest rate of only 0.5% in value of double the excess credit growth achieved above the three-month limit of 4%. The measures of the Croatian National Bank gave a very fast result and the banks reduced the expansion of credit and borrowing to 4% of the quarterly level. In this way, a somewhat limited credit expansion policy is based mainly on the foreign borrowing of banks in the home countries where these banks are from. The Croatian National Bank is forced to intervene because of foreign debt and must buy foreign exchanges and change them into kunas in order to place funds through loans and to settle the debt of the state that brings major damage to the economy, and especially to the export industry because of the unreal exchange rate of the kuna, because the export economy is tied to the dollar and the kuna has applied 14.8% in the previous period. Namely, as we know, the course is determined daily, and depends on the offer and demand on the foreign exchange market, and since the offer of foreign exchanges is higher with this and the demand for kunas is growing and the large amount of foreign exchanges is converted into kunas, which exceeds the amount of national currency. As a result, Kuna tends to be an apreciation, which is why the balance of payments deficit is stable, and this excess kuna is due to external debt and credit refinancing, and that is why part of the fiscal deficit is financed. And here I'm going to say once again that maybe with this report we need to analyze and open the theme of a fixed exchange rate. Is this an economic moment for course adjustment as one of the conditions for economic recovery? If not, then I'm sure it's time for a serious debate on this important issue. And no matter how financially stable and fixed the exchange rate of kuna, the overrated kuna I found unfavourable for the exporters, the possible skating of the exchange rate would be more appropriate for the vast majority of Croatian citizens who were either more or fatal to our domestic banks who had raised high loans in the hands of foreign capital and any change in the exchange rate of kuna would endanger a large part of our people. Some other European countries have managed to find models to solve similar problems. Namely, by introducing a sliding exchange rate, it is necessary to create circumstances for citizens not to be damaged, and for this skating burden to fall mainly on those who have benefited from it. I mean, first of all, the banking system and the state that needs to be actively involved in solving these problems. And it should be said here, however, that the Croatian National Bank cannot prevent the consequences of poor fixed, fiscal policy, which means keeping the deficit under control, or keeping under control the growth of interest on loans to kuna amounts with which creditors protect themselves from inflation. The Croatian National Bank cannot also be controlled by duties, e.g. public companies and everyone else. It can only be done by the Government and stop issuing, among other guarantees where it is not exceptionally justified. But that is why the Croatian National Bank must insist on measures to reduce the country's deficit from 5.1% or 6.3% regardless of any formula calculated by the social gross product, in 2000 to the desired 2.5% somewhere in 2008. And the current balance of payments deficit from 7.3% to 4%, thereby reducing the foreign debt ratio to the social gross product from a worrying 77% at the present moment to alerable 73% in 2008 and public debt from 42% to 36% desirable in that period. Every monetary policy wants a stable exchange rate, certainly formed on the free market and a low interest visa and low inflation. It is therefore necessary to have a continuous intervention of the central bank in order to keep the liquidity under control. All of this is an assumption of economic growth and macroeconomic stability of the country, and economic growth, it is known to everyone, is the best solution for all problems, and so far the unsettled problem of full employment. If the government's policy does not ensure growth, not the declared but desirable and real that is not visible so far, the negative effects of such a policy will soon be shown. Even the higher rate of growth of the gross domestic product than declared, followed by a high deficit and a steady growth of external debt is not a solution, because very quickly we can be affected by Argentine syndrome, and with all key indicators we still have to look at it close to that border and be very careful not to cause a real crisis, and as a consequence of all this, negative growth. Unfortunately, in a slightly milder form, we also had the opportunity to see in the 99th year when taking over power from the coalition when this economic growth was negative, minus 0.9% of gross domestic product. From what is said, it can be concluded that the governor of the Croatian National Bank cannot conduct a fully autonomous monetary policy and therefore we support the CNB initiative and realisation of the deficit under which the deficit would be settled in the country, thereby reducing the foreign debt and bringing foreign currency into the central bank for replacement. The debtors would be sold on the domestic market and the CNB would broadcast kunas to buy these bonds. The CNB would thus become more autonomous in the conduct of monetary policy and would regulate the price of money, both in terms of capital and influencing the development of the national economy. Therefore, the move of the governor and finance minister on bond issue should be welcomed as much as necessary to insist on developing the securities market for a more significant credited foreign debt and budget deficit otherwise we will have the same problems, whoever is in power because each government has an almost unlimited debt freedom, and we are now once again warning of excessive debt and public debt and should be determined not to be in charge of spending, credits should be directed towards restructuring the economy, in production, in new technologies, in knowledge of exports and thus in development. As long as we have such a fiscal policy to the trom, an unorganized and massive administration slow and inefficient judiciary is almost impossible to secure an even match in the economy. Imequity is visible I would almost say at every step of the business is divided by vague criteria, still political and family ties reign, jobs often get more skillful and resourceful who know well what someone needs to give to whom and others who are not able to regularly stay in front of the door. I remind once again the freedom and policy of equal opportunities for an ever-best prerequisite for progress and higher employment. And in the end, I would conclude with what I started. We would like to open the debate through this debate on the Croatian National Bank's report once again on several important issues for us. The effectiveness of the international foreign exchange reserves of the CNB which are currently $8.191 billion, on their height, on increasing these reserves by 39.2% in 2003 compared to the beginning of the year, given the immobilisation of such large amounts of funds, of which Croatia has no direct benefit and they return through loans, through foreign banks in Croatia at very high interest. We want to encourage the debate through this report I said about a stable and fixed exchange rate, which we want to problem and in my report I already said how such a move could affect economic growth in the country. We also want to talk again openly about the level of foreign debt and the responsibility of the Croatian state which really achieves great proportions and measures that we need to take to bring this debt into real size. We want to have serious fun by stopping the import stampede, by providing domestic producers and domestic goods with competitiveness at least domestic if we are not able on the world market, by encouraging exports and economic growth based above all on new employment because this is the only real way in which all resources and human beings will be fully exploited and in which we will have a much more stable economic situation in the country than it is right now. This report has been made quite correct but in its essential elements in which I have spoken, it points to the need for a public and economic debate on the economic moment of Croatia, which is why I want these topics to be found on both the subject and the debate in this House as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23272	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First Mr. Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23273	Dear Mr. Vice President, here is a moment ago, the distinguished representative Luka Roic said it is possible to raise a course without the citizens getting hurt. It is simply not possible, it is a false allegation, Croatia has no perpetuum mobile, it would be ideal if it were owned, however, by changing the course at the end of the year it would ultimately affect citizens. There are no non-indebted families in this country, changing the course will simply lead to the "sea" of our citizens' financial opportunities, and eventually we will come really into a situation that we will pay all the debt back from saving citizens if we do not encourage growth in this country. However, Croatia does not have the perpetum mobile at this time and it is not possible to claim that citizens would not suffer in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23274	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23275	Mr. President, I think that colleague Cain hurt Rule 209 because he spoke to me too quite differently than I said. I said that we should open the debate and that I am aware and that we are afraid that such a course, i.e.... would be very devastating for the widest circle of our citizens and therefore very careful to discuss it but that there are models in Europe that have solved this problem by including both the banking system and the expensive institutions and the state in solving this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23276	Thank you very much. We have another correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23277	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representative Roic told the truth that some who held hands on their hearts had broken out their handcuffs to the citizens. They didn't break out of the pockets of citizens holding their hands on their hearts in 91st, they proudly hold their hands on their hearts today, but you who in just four years made so long that you broke out the wallets and our great-grandsons with your bad country leadership. Under the "Fairly" password.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23278	It is Mr Roic's opinion, and opinions are not allowed to be corrected except in long-term convictions. He now has a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Luka Roic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23279	Mr. Vice President, you've actually corrected it, so I won't, but I haven't talked about pride, my pride and everyone's right to every citizen, and I wanted to talk about Croatia's wallet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23280	Of course this one, of course I agree with you is that the right hand is the right but the heart is on the left. Well, it's a peaceful gesture, isn't it? Here's the time for the application of 10 minutes to the Rules of Procedure now in 12 and 2 minutes. And now, on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Walter Drandić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23281	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Governor, colleagues and fellow MPs. The IDS Club supports this Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003, the IDS Club supports the measures taken by the Croatian National Bank for the Stabilisation of Credit Monetary Streams and we support the Croatian National Bank's policy in order to slow the expansion of credits. In this debate, the IDS Club wants to highlight its concern with growth and external debt levels in the Republic of Croatia. Ex Yugoslavia had $20 billion in debt and that was a major problem for 22 million residents. Croatia today has somewhere to say over 26 billion dollars in debt to 4.5 million people. And some say it's not a problem. And today, Croatia is unfortunately exporting less than it was in the former Yugoslavia, and we all know that the external debt can only be paid back by export, because only today at least it creates foreign exchanges to which the debt must be paid back. The Governor of the Croatian National Bank has been seriously pointing to the problem of external responsibility for at least two years now, and whether I want to admit it or not, it is the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia today. The IDS urges that all the weight of this problem be taken very seriously, as external debt has become too heavy a burden for Croatia's further development. As this report shows, and I will quote only one part of the third page in the same way as the responsible people in the Croatian National Bank. So I quote "Croatia's ability to settle its foreign obligations in the immediate future is unequivocal. However, it is clear that the debt growth rate is unsustainable in 2003 and that the debt has reached that level which requires economic policy makers to take direct measures to slow down the foreign debt growth rate, i.e. its descent to a level that would be approximately equal to or less than the rate of growth of the gross domestic product." I think these words talk enough about the seriousness of the situation and it's clear to all of us that someone's debt has to be paid back, and we won't do anything if we switch this assignment to the next generation of our children. Twenty-six billion US dollars per 4.5 million people almost 80% of gross domestic product somewhere around five thousand and 700 dollars per capita. This is today's situation and all the economic profession attaches great seriousness to this problem, and it is clear that measures to reduce external duty must be strengthened urgently. What is particularly interesting in Croatia is that the total foreign debt is a high share of bank debt somewhere around 32%, which is almost as much as the share of state that amounts to something more than 35%. It is also interesting because this borrowing of banks abroad grew very quickly in 2003 83.3%, just when savings grew the most, which is not logical at first sight. But if a little better analysis of the ownership interest of most banks in Croatia today and we heard before 91% of banks are owned by foreign banks, then it is clear that bank owners are paid twice to earn the same money in a way that first transfers the savings of our citizens to the ino of the bank, for example 2% interest, but then they take loans from, say, 4% interest. And these same loans are being placed on our domestic market at a well-known interest rate. The result is earnings in the Croatian bank, earnings in the bank of the bank owners. And who gives a shit about this country's problems, who cares about the foreign debt? And this is also seen by the behaviour following the application of the mandatory reserve, where more and more companies today, according to the information we have, are not directly borrowing abroad to avoid issuing a mandatory reserve in domestic banks, which is likely to force the Croatian National Bank on restrictions in the borrowing of our companies abroad. And whatever the Croatian National Bank does, whatever measures it takes, the question is respect for these measures so as not to increase the debt. Because if we can't already act on that debt growing just by growing interest, today here... you are today, the dollar growing. Then a deal should be reached in this country that at least the main debt cannot grow anymore. and not to aim at escipating the actions of the Croatian National Bank, but how to stabilise that external debt and bring it into real terms into the bearable frameworks that we will also, but certainly future generations, be able to actually return. If the bank's external debt was placed through development loans through export credits, then it wouldn't be a problem, because the debt would return to actual foreign exchanges from exports. The problem is that most of that money is not placed in development, it is not placed in exports, it is placed in consumer loans, it was placed just before my colleague Cain, for example in car loans, clearly with the currency clause, and many who took it have unfortunately overestimated, and if it goes according to the real exchange rate, the question is who will repay those loans. They say the banks are safe because they have fiducial property on vehicles or on apartments. And they don't think to whom one such future situation will even be able to sell those properties or those cars if they take them from those who don't pay back the debt. Not to mention that loans are coming back in kunas, and external debt is all in foreign exchanges, in euro in dollars. And unfortunately, in Croatia today, no one is creating any more. Because when we talk about this topic, we need to say what the underlying problem is. And that's that on a real course you can't base your development, that you can't base exports on the unrealistic exchange rate, we can't create an economy that is capable of restoring these duties we have. The course is practically the same about 10 years, remember we had 4 for the stamp, today we have over 7.6 for the euro, so we're less at the same level. But those 10 years, if we think about it a little bit better, there was inflation, so at least that should have been followed. This course policy stimulates imports, stimulates what we do not want, and does not stimulate exports. Agriculture is being destroyed because it's getting cheaper from imports than domestic. And those who produce for export, those who export today don't have a big net foreign exchange inflow, we seem to have some kind of foreign exchange inflow. However, when looking at the net foreign exchange inflow, it is very small, because those who produce for export and pay more to buy material for that production from imports than domestic ones. and the only bright spot there in the last few years is tourism, whose revenues increased by 47% in 2003. However, tourism cannot in itself settle the difference between foreign exchanges that are missing through trade rebalancing and a constant increase in foreign debt. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The fact is, the foreign debt returns to foreign exchanges. The fact is, only exporters make their foreign exchanges. The fact is that the export nature in Croatia is not created and cannot be created overnight, the export economy is created tirelessly, created for years. The trade balance is down, and it's a matter of pure mathematics, because if your imports are twice as big as exports, then the trading balance deficit is growing, it can't fall, it can only grow and that no service, no tourism can compensate. Lately, it has been said that foreign investors are also seeking a transfer of profits abroad. And we need the foreign exchanges again. And income is realized in kunas. If, for example, Deute Telecom raises the dividend transfer in Germany is in foreign exchanges and income is realised in kunas. Who's going to create these foreign exchanges? Today, it is only interest-serving and transfer to get already a big enough problem and without thinking about how to solve the problem of increasing the main external debt. So far, we've kind of been patching this up, selling the property, that money's been spent. There's little left in the property, and we in the IDS hope that in the end it won't all be solved by saving citizens who will look if this continues alone. And if Croatia finally started to develop, if the real investments were to start in Croatia, then in Croatia foreign exchanges would come and do it all the time while investments are only in buying what already exists then, that money comes only once and the question of how much more we have to sell in the first place. All of this and a lot of other arguments indicate the seriousness of the situation. External debt should be controlled, external debt should be reduced rather than increased. We need energetic measures to reduce debt because given our size, given our potential, given our development for Croatia, this debt is simply too large, it is unsustainable. Some say that when we enter the European Union, there will be no more problems with the foreign exchange, because there will be a euro for us, and then we will solve a lot. However, that is not right at all. First and after entering the European Union, the question is when we will enter the monetary union, which is much later than joining the European Union. Secondly, the question is, can we even join the European Union with these deficits? The Governor of the Croatian National Bank has pointed to these problems before, but it is obvious that, either there is no political will to take unpopular measures, or there is a force that decides the over-influence of some lobbys, such as bankers who are managed only by the logic of their own profits, because today, as you can see from this report in Croatia, the banking system shows strong profitability. For example, in 2003, the average capital contribution was 15.6%. There's no one who's involved in the production of that kind of capital. No one in Croatia has such a capital contribution today. So what? Is that normal? Is it normal that banks are the only ones making money in this country, that those who work can't survive? We at the IDS Club think it is too late for many things, but until it is too late we appeal to give open hands to the Croatian National Bank to reduce foreign debt, to introduce measures that will not be possible to play because otherwise we have only the sale of the whole of Croatia and the debt that we will leave to our children. I hope no one responsible in Croatia really wants it. For this reason, I repeat, the IDS Club supports the efforts of the Croatian National Bank and we support what Governor Rohatinski is doing and therefore we support the Croatian National Bank Report for the past year but the only real solution is the development of the export economy because only exports create foreign exchanges and debt returns and will unfortunately return to foreign exchanges for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23282	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in an individual debate is Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23283	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Gentlemen from the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues! Well, I will try to show my presentation in the way of the MPs, therefore initiated by those who elected me to the Croatian Parliament, avoid being an adviser to the Croatian National Bank and, in particular, avoid being a lawyer of this or Racan government. Why am I saying that? To support the reasons, I will quote the Law on the Croatian National Bank. Paragraph 10 of Article 2 of the Law "Croatian National Bank is not independent in making and implementing its decisions based on this law. It shall not seek or be bound by the instructions of the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, the bodies of the European Union and other persons." Article 2 "On the basis of the powers referred to in paragraph 1. The Croatian National Bank may determine the measures and instruments it needs to regulate the credit and liquidity of banks to regulate the amount of money in circulation and to take measures in connection with interest rates and domestic currency exchange rates in order to achieve a set monetary and foreign exchange policy." Article 4 "The Croatian National Bank conducts foreign exchange control in the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the law." And perhaps the most important legal obligation of the Croatian National Bank. She is solely responsible for the Croatian Parliament. And when we find that the Croatian National Bank has instruments, has the authority of monetary and control, it has the independence that has been questioned, of course I hope the Croatian National Bank representative will say that because the circumstances under which this report has been completed with different data from the one we received in the report itself. As a whole, in order for the bank to get an assessment that it had implemented the law of obligations and responsibilities, we would have to discuss each segment. But even a superficial review of this report can be said that the bank has quite well achieved its function as regards the stability of the domestic currency. And the second part of the report reminds me of the story of the patient they operated on and remained ill after surgery and the entire medical console remains in the same therapy. Konsili is responsible for the doctor and for the treatment. The bank is responsible for the course, for price stability, for the business of Croatian banks regardless of whose ownership they are. What is the monetary policy, therefore, of the state-run monetary authority that does not provide development and does not ensure the employment of citizens? Why, this should be determined by experts and proposed measures that would allow both employment and development. But it should not be a great expert and notice that the Croatian economy is not competitive for the countries it wants to export to. It's loaded with high interest, it's loaded with expensive state. It is burdened with high energy prices and if we add that the state does not take measures to facilitate business and management or export production, it can be immediately supported by the fact that the HBOR Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development has reduced its potential to support programmes and development in Croatia, and that is even stated precisely by the arrangement by the 200 million kuna. The assessment that Croatian banks are owned by foreign banks and that the capital yield is extremely high on what a colleague from the IDS spoke about shows that the tasks of the Croatian state, the Croatian Bank, are even more important. If this is added, banks have the authority to take loans from abroad even from their home abroad, and to place these loans in foreign goods exports in such a way that they only import goods but also finance foreign workers. And our workers are out of a job. This must be the role of both the state and the Croatian peoples of the bank to change the trend. To change that trend. The Croatian Investment Bank and the Export Bank must be osgiuated. Which will have interests not only profitable but also development and social. They'll have to place the funds more riskyly. And thus encourage and train the Croatian economy and its competitive capacity especially for goods that can be placed on the European Union market. Since the Croatian Bank also has the authority to control domestic banks, not only the authorisation but also the obligation and all instruments of monetary policy, it is then obliged to propose exclusively to the Croatian Parliament to measure and establish these as a legal obligation. I, as an agent, have something really very interesting almost every year. It happens to me that in summer, there is no kuna or a higher exchange. And that's a surprise for the Croatian National Bank. If it were one year then I'd figure out what it was just couldn't have been predicted. But look at the devil then and a significant change in Croatian currency and the change in the courser will all agree always to someone, one is hurting others. If you look back a few quarters always in the same period is a lack of kuna or excess exchange or vice versa, and always the same is convenient in these transactions. So changing the course happens if it is a product of the market then I could understand but could not understand surprise for the Croatian People's Bank. Finally, I think it is very important to ensure the unquestioned independence of the Croatian National Bank but also the full responsibility of the Croatian National Bank for Monetary Policy to ensure the development policy of the Republic of Croatia. I hope that, in the end, by addressing this high House, the representatives of the Croatian Bank will have valid reasons for changing the report that they have provided us within the appropriate period and then subsequently changed it without the structure without changing the structure of the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23284	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then Mr. Representative Miroslav Korenik. He's not here either, and he's losing his right. Mr. Representative Ljubo Jurcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23285	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Croatian National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that the Croatian National Bank reports fall within the group of the most qualitative reports that the central and central banks of all sovereign countries are doing. These reports are important not only for monetary policy makers, but for all domestic and foreign entities dealing in any way with the economy. The different bulletins of our Croatian Bank will certainly be even more qualitative when the work of the State Institute for Statistics and the work of the statistical and analytical department at the Ministry of Finance and other ministries, institutions, agencies in Croatia is in advance. At that time, the creator of economic policy will also have a better basis for adopting measures and persevering economic policy instruments. For Croatia, an international bank is believed to have been the only stable factor in Croatia's overall economic life over the past ten years. First of all, I would like to say that she consistently implemented a defined policy, a policy of stable prices and a stable exchange rate, a collection of foreign reserves and which was very politically important and also economically protected from external and internal attacks. It can be said that only the operating conditions of the monetary sector have always been clear so far for the next period. However, in addition to all the good things that the Croatian National Bank has done over the past period, it could be objected to distance from economic movements in Croatia, and only to focus on exchange rates and prices. At this stage of development, Croatia should make maximum use of all economic policy instruments and monetary policy instruments to speed up economic growth, and raise the management to a higher level from the current $6,000 Circa $6,000 per capita to $10.15 thousand why there are resource conditions in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia, however, renounces one instrument at a time of economic policy. Monetary policy has several instruments at its disposal. The course may first and foremost, but a few years ago, we turned the course from the instrument into a goal, and we can no longer manage it. After that, there is a rate of mandatory noodles, an exotic rate of open market policies and so on. The Croatian National Bank applies only one instrument, and so on. a single reserve rate of 19% to yesterday and from today or if it is valid from today 18%. So they're going to release some cash so they can pay some debts from the previous periods. Which is not unique again. Because it's 42% of the foreign exchange account that I remember, it's being extrapolated in kunas that are being re-enlarged with so-called. A 24% border reserve obligation seems to have been in place since August 2004. To all sources of non-residents and persons in a special relationship with the bank i.e. Shareholder of the bank. All of this has to be added to so-called. The 35% rule, which says that at least 35% of foreign exchange obligations must be covered by exchange claims and on a daily basis, making a new quasi mandatory reserve. We also point out that the total exposure to the currency risk of debt and short position, one bank cannot be greater than 20% of the guarantee capital on a daily basis and that banks are obliged to manage the currency risk daily. For example, the central bank has shown a negative exchange rate difference over the last two years for a significant sum. Which is depicted as a loss, and of course it couldn't have been as an income to the state. We heard today from a fellow Church that all of this is justified by the fact that it's just an accounting loss, due to the structure of foreign exchange reserves. However, the bank's business gains and losses do not show bookkeeping, they show accounting and the issue of managing the central bank's foreign reserves is raised. Here, first of all, I'm referring to the policy of covering the exchange rate risk. I think that policy is a little neglected in the Croatian People's Bank, because we have about $7.8 billion in foreign exchange reserves there. So, as you can see, there are as many as 4 minimum reserves that come from each other, instead of such diversity at the mandatory reserve, the Croatian National Bank did not use other instruments to manage monetary policy, such as open market policy and policies with the help of an escontaneous rate. All countries that have a central bank, and they don't have a so-called. ...involved two policies. In Croatia, an escontant rate of 4.5% was set, and that nothing was measured or compared to that rate. She's not even a reference rate. The question arises whether it is a recognised rate of inflation or a certain rate of principle, when everyone has it, we will too. Banks cannot be in debt with the Croatian National Bank at this rate, but they can only pay 9.5% a year for the Lombard Credit at 5 days of use. As part of this idea of the interest rate with which Minister Ozbolt went about the so-called. the highest interest rate of only 9% to our complete sense of purpose. So without living econtamination rates, there's not even the highest interest rate. When it comes to market policy, there is only one announcement from the Croatian National Bank, and more from the stand-by arrangement so that these measures can be implemented from the end of this year. This means that the Croatian National Bank becomes a fiscal agent of the state and a primary trader. But we have no illusion that this is really going to be an open market policy. Because this would put into question so far the creation of monetary mass exclusively from the purchase of foreign exchanges and... somewhere about 99% of the monetary mass and in Croatia is created from the purchase of foreign exchanges, which again means that politics so-called. or the quasi-curate committee. To leave this kind of monetary mass creation and engage in open market policy would give the central bank management an opportunity to manage the money sector for the first time on a daily basis. I also believe that monetary policy has not resolved mortgages and crises since 1998, so the restrictive policy dominates, book more and more securely. It forgets the role of monetary policy through the banking sector in achieving the overall objectives of economic policy, economic growth, employment and what my predecessors have said. Besides, from what I've heard. bank crises have also created financial conglomerates that act as an oligoform, which has created a good basis for the monopoly behaviour of banks towards citizens and economies, and all have resulted in monopoly bank profits, while the rest of the economy is in a completely different situation. Finally, the issue is much wider than the Croatian National Bank. In the current situation when fiscal policy gives up the budget deficit as a strong instrument of fiscal policy, monetary policy has given up a long-term exchange rate and benefits from the other three instruments, only one monetary policy instrument raises the question of which Croatian economic policy instruments, or Croatian government, will lead Croatian rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23286	Thank you. Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23287	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the National Bank, colleagues and colleagues. The report is largely held to the justification of what was done, not what could have been done or missed, and from the very data from the Croatian National Bank report. The exchange rate policy, the Croatian National Bank, does not take too much care to at least coordinate the rate growth with the rise in costs of domestic components, which continues to lead exporters to a difficult situation. We can also estimate that the course is stable at the level at the end of the year. It does not take into account significant oscillations during the year, especially in 2003 where within a month the course has oscillated several percent, which is the purpose of significant losses to the export economy, and especially tourism that generates costs within the period of the year when the rate is highest and realizes revenues during the low rate period. The report on Ino Debts shows that by adopting monetary policy measures, the Croatian National Bank actually created in the largest part of the growth and debt. The growth of debt in banks as the main generator of debt disbursement was intended for the most satisfying so-called "supervisory" part. Position, 35%, i.e. The banks were tasked abroad to place these same foreign exchanges on foreign accounts, with of course a negative difference, and thus filled the accounts with the same banks in which they were taking loans or buying from the Croatian National Bank foreign currency records from which foreign exchanges were re-deposited through the Croatian National Bank in the accounts of our country's lenders abroad and again with a negative difference. How many kilometers of roads could be made from a negative difference, best to calculate the Croatian National Bank. The growth of private companies' debts abroad is again the result of the same measures, as a part of the banks in Croatia have done their jobs to companies at the expense of their headquarters abroad or Croatian banks have not been much more sophisticated by the same measures, so they have financed foreign banks so that the profits of the transaction remain to be taxed outside the state of Croatia. Losses in exchange for exchange rates. It is not possible for exchange rate exchange regulators in commercial banks to make a great living on so-called banks. exchange rate differences stemming from the position, not foreign exchange trade, while only the Croatian National Bank loses almost EUR 80 million in one year, according to the measures of the individual currencies of the ERU and the dollar in the Croatian debt structure, the regulator actually shows that it does not understand that.... foreign positions are done in accordance with the manuality and dynamics of the obligation, rather than the more collected situation. In doing so, they could also remember Croatian shipbuilding, which is actually losing money because of this dynamic, not because it will either lose them in the sequence. The plasma limit measures were 16% and 35%. The measures were obviously taken with a delay when plasma growth trends themselves indicated that accelerated growth from earlier years would have to be slowed down, but therefore brought a whole series of additional problems that the CNB would obviously be aware of, but does not give any answers to them, I mean measures 35%. It is concluded that due to these measures, the debt of banks has grown, but it does not say how this will be resolved, especially when considering that such a situation and as a state creates major problems for us, but that the banks have the same borrowed money in their accounts or in the accounts of the Croatian National Bank uninvolved. It notes that this estimate has led to a liquidity decline, the interest rates on the kuna have increased, thereby raising the debt of the Ministry of Finance and the lack of kuna pressure on the drop of the exchange rate all the time, while raising domestic financing costs, making the lives of exporters and tourists of activity more difficult. Due to this, we can conclude that the intensity of the reduction in domestic loan offer may have been a need, but with a tensile aspect of the performance, and thus the consequences of the disaster, because it produced the rise in debt, the rise in interest rates on kuna, the slower fall in the country's competitiveness and the negative spirals between certain borrowed loans and deposits abroad by Croatian banks and the CNB, the outflow of the porphite that could have been monitored in Croatia. In part of the capital and money market, the Croatian National Bank stresses the importance of these markets especially from the point of view of the need to finance more in the country through these markets in the future, but does not explain what was done in this direction, given the already mentioned measures, the domestic banking system has put into a situation to finance the bank's own loans, rather than domestic demand. The Croatian National Bank boasts with two editions of kuna securities but forgets to add that because of the measures already mentioned it created the situation that the kuna is placed for a maximum of up to 6 months and that these are very expensive placements, and that therefore two kuna editions of securities are not traded, as will not be traded in the future until it is understood that the market cannot create on the wishes and parallel to the daily measures. That this problem is not understood best is seen from the Croatian National Bank's plan to start an operation on the market in 2004, when it is clear that the year has already passed and that it will probably not be possible anymore. All of this is best said that the Croatian National Bank does not consider the kuna as a currency in which the country's ino of debt should be financed, so the question is whether the Croatian National Bank is now running a central European Bank branch policy rather than an independent state policy that still needs to be answered under the law. And to conclude, we can conclude that the Croatian National Bank was leading politics, the course is stable, the prices are stable, and our responsibility is and we are satisfied, it is a short breath policy. The foreign trade exchange is even greater in the deficit and no one can claim that the course and measures of the Croatian National Bank have nothing to do with it. The cost of funding in the country is higher because, through the measures of the Croatian National Bank, raised the costs to the banks they did not significantly lower interest on the kuna, even raised it somewhere. Croatia, as a developing and transition country, allows the situation to show a high growth in debt even though most of it was created by the measures of the former government and the Croatian National Bank, through which it was returned... to the cheap deposits that we lend to our creditors, an asset of nearly 6 billion dollars without the Croatian National Bank. The data on page 48 shows that all growth in cash mass went into a mandatory reserve or is maintained for the purpose of a mandatory reserve on bank accounts, so the question arises why additional cash mass is created at all if someone thinks it is not necessary to serve the economy and through the additional liquidity market collapse interest rates. How is it possible for the Croatian National Bank for the second year in a row to have a loss in business as a monopolitical institution that prescribes commercial banks how to work so as not to lose in exchange for exchange rates and while they are making fat money, the Croatian National Bank loses. The Croatian National Bank as a party that should have encouraged the development of the capital and securities market and, through this, formed a kuna instead, created a situation where interest on kuna on one-day loans amounted to over 10%. This is why kuna instruments are not traded for more than a year, and the issue of over a year mentioned in the report has not been marketed at all. Such a situation leaves the country's debt refinancing plans questionable because if it is and is possible, it will be with the fiscal clause rather than Kunska, which again means that any change in exchange rate policy in the future will not be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23288	Thank you very much. Replica is a respected representative of Mato Church.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23289	Dear President, what Mr. Vukic reads is multiplely questionable. It is unacceptable, in fact, and it is incorrect that the Croatian National Bank is a branch of the Central European Emissions Institute and that it is becoming increasingly more and more. I would even like to say that those who know things can confirm this, if at least the Croatian Ministry of Business Institutions and all others could be European to those same institutions in this way partner and equal as the Croatian National Bank, a respected and equal partner to the European Bank, Croatia would stand well. The Croatian National Bank has its very specific place in the new Law on Banks, which is a law on the Croatian National Bank which is in line with the European Standard, this Parliament has verified and the European Commission has verified that our law on the Croatian National Bank and its behaviour are in line with the behaviour of the European Bank and how these areas are regulated in Europe. The fact that it is declared essentially by the debtor of the European Bank cannot really be accepted. And just one more amongst other things, Mr. Vukic said that the course should be aligned with the domestic components. That wouldn't have been good either if Verheugen had heard it. In fact, it is that you are actually demanding that when every Croatian cost, imposition or when the Ministry of Finance prescribes a new obligation, it increases in Croatia we should change the course in order to comply with the costs generated by the inputs in production processes. It would be such a setback in the impossible competitiveness of Croatia's position we would then be not only ahead of Serbia and Bosnia in Europe but likely level with them.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23290	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Honored Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23291	Here's one more time, I'm just gonna repeat what I said about the Central European Bank. All of this is best said that the Croatian National Bank does not consider the kuna as a currency in which the country's cash refinancing should be carried out, so the question is whether the Croatian National Bank is already running a central European Bank branch policy rather than an independent state policy that should still be answered. Therefore, this shows that it would be better to finance foreign debt refinancing from our own resources rather than new loans abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23292	The Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23293	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I need to discuss this 2003 CNB report once more. After some discussions and observing this content, it seems to me that there is still a need to differentiate the content of the report itself and to point out the trends it treats and ultimately only separate the role of the CNB in Croatian society or Croatian state. And therefore, once again, I would like to give a brief warning of the report that it contains no matter how much it responds or not to the structure of each economy or political or any other and on the other hand the consequences that these tendencies indicate. In this regard, I further point out once again that this report was made before the final recording of the situation in the past year, especially the one relating to the deficit that has been disputed for months in this House. That's why this report has something different but I'm holding a significant no different content than the final deficit score of 6.3%. This report points to repeated once again a solid growth of the economy in the past year but I will briefly comment on what it contains, which makes it an increase in low inflation that remains and we see that we are challenging it through a possible exchange rate or other policy depends on who accesss the problem but what is particularly important and characteristic of the huge deficit in the balance of payments. In the last year we will see from the data was actually the biggest deficit in that period and it has its tendencies in moving forward, matter of time, the instrumentation in which time will be regulated. It also shows a very strong fiscal deficit in the past year, and we assume it will continue its movements at least in the first quarter of this year. The largest ino of debt in the last year alone is a bigger increase in that year than ever, we can say almost from the draft Croatian state to today, a very strong increase and it is again conditioned by certain developments in the economy, but it also has all the consequences of future developments in the economy. Real is gross national income is up to 4.3%. But he tends to fall from the previous year in which he was 5.2%. So he continued his tendency to fall and we assume that this trend continued and reflected the movement at the beginning of this year. In particular, we warn that in this rapid growth, namely a solid economic growth is conditioned mostly by the two-determined imports of capital and by investing in the public infrastructure that we have already highlighted. Of course, the proio come out and the employment and everything else that results from that event. But also one strong increase in personal consumption. Unfortunately, this consumption is re-determined by imports of goods of broad consumption or permanent consumer goods and other goods which again affect import and debt in the chain that is happening, but it is not so short and easy to limit in a short time I think. A strong current account deficit has also been marked, but it has a trend of growth, but it declines compared to last year. Once again, when we observe phenomena, they are somehow causually bound inside of it. A drastic deterioration in the trade account that has deteriorated by about 40%. Which is why we don't discuss the consequences. I said earlier that he was in debt, but again, to explain why he grew by nearly nine billion in that year. It is precisely that it consists of one part, but significantly smaller than the interval of relations. It is true that some growth in bank loans has slowed down, but other forms of lending such as leasing and other consumption have increased, and in the coming time I repeat, it will once again need to pay particular attention to the overall aggregates that condition such movements. Of course, all of this leads to a reduction in the budget deficit and a reduction in ino of responsibilities over the next period of this year. But now it is quite clear that this reduction in the ino of debt will condition a reduction in those sectors of investment in which it meant an increase in that time, which will then cause the consequences of certain movements of course, and that debt must be reduced, I say in a joke, but I mean very seriously think that in the end the state regulates the status of citizens, and says that they can be owed up to one third of the salary. And let alone the state or the entire economy in the country. Therefore, that part of the debt must continue to be controlled and reduced as well as certain negative movements resulting from this. And certainly Croatia is exposed through all these relations of trade, exchange rate, interval, namely through the duties of all forms, etc., to the strong impact of the macroeconomic environment. But it is undoubtedly exposed to both internal relations with weaknesses in technological lagging, leadership and everything else that is conditioned. Therefore, this should be regulated in a segment of macroeconomic, and in a part here monetary policy which can and must affect it. The growth of gross national income was also stimulated by previous strong debt and strong consumption, it recorded a rate of 4.3%, but again the trend fell from 5.2% in the previous year, which I commented and reiterated as an extremely important trend that takes place in this year, the observed year, and which has its impact and consequences in the coming time that will also take place in that period. We also have a characteristic report of the decline in industrial production with 4.5%, and the balance was somewhat held by the service sector primarily in tourism. And everything else we see is the elements that are very lenient and that this disproportionate and external debt ratio and our exports and the overall sector, apart from our duties, we actually have a tendency to fall. and that this trend will be difficult to limit, but measures must continue to improve and strengthen and have a positive impact on the situation in the economy. The limit of external debt generators and thus these sectors of consumption, I point out once again, and we need to limit them regardless of the transition to the internal debt sector. We will once again have the consequence that he will act back as a spiral I would almost say to the rough spiral of inflation that he will again act on his duty. Why? Well, we heard a debate these days, too, so suddenly it was necessary to rule out the ino of duty. How? A fundamental question arises. Namely, service of debt, foreign debt, service of internal needs as a necessity is possible, and in the absence of self-accumulation, it is absolutely clear that further, but very slowed-down ino or internal responsibility is possible. and otherwise, it is not possible to service and would naturally have severe consequences for the economy. And finally, what I want, of course, is the questionable role of the CNB, of course, that individuals, and groups, parties, can be traumatised and at some point demand the responsibility of individual policy makers, the CNB should be given full autonomy, I should repeat that once again we should commit to improving the cooperation of all sectors, but also take full responsibility for its role in the creation of this monetary policy which means, of course, the stability of the state, society, economy, economy and, of course, avoid the full potential of the impact of any internal circles, we have heard banks or any other sectors. Therefore, by creating monetary policy in the interests of the Croatian state, Croatia's economy, Croatian citizens, and thus the CNB will be less exposed to external shocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23294	Thank you. Replica, Honorable Representative Ljubo Jurcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23295	Mr. President, Mr. Šime Prtvenjak's esteemed representative in his presentation probably and unconsciously identified private, i.e. business finances, public finances and monetary finances when he wanted to argue as long as someone could be in debt, so that the household could also be in debt to a third of his income, then the state should no longer. In fact, in all of this private, or personal, business and public humanitarian finances is just a common word of finance. And they differ in many ways. For example, between public and business finances is the difference that public debt should never finally be paid, and private debt when it has to be paid back. And since then, the whole difference begins, in those finances. And as for public debt as much as can be owed to the states, we also have examples of developing countries today, where public debt from countries that are members of the European Union crosses 100% of their gross domestic product. So there's one big difference, and it would be good to talk about terms to make sure that we're not unconsciously misleading maybe listeners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23296	Thank you. Replicate response, respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23297	Mr. Jurcic, I'm guessing, and I wouldn't want to pollute at all, so I'm guessing maybe you didn't follow the course, the whole course of thought. In any case, I don't suppose a man who isn't in the economy is connected to private debts and private investments. I wanted to make a plastic display to people who aren't going to do it. Yes, and such an obligation must have its limitations, insurance instruments, let alone the debt of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23298	Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23299	Mr. President, he's calling the governor, his colleagues and his colleagues. The Constitution and the law of the Croatian National Bank within the framework of operations and its competence has been determined, inter alia, through the establishment and implementation of monetary and foreign exchange policies, the holding and management of international reserves of the Republic of Croatia, the issue of banknotes and coins, the keeping of accounts of banks on the provision of payment turnover in these accounts, lending to banks and receiving into deposits of bank funds, regulation, improvement and supervision of payment traffic, etc. According to the 2003 annual report, the Croatian National Bank carried out such tasks in accordance with the law and only the report was made up methodologically and effectively correct. I would particularly refer to the financial reports contained in this annual report. In addition to an independent auditor's report, they are made up of a profit and loss account, a balance sheet, a capital change report, a cash flow report and an accounting policy and notes with financial statements. The independent auditor states in its report that the financial reports show the bank’s real and objective financial position on 31 December 2003, its business results and cash flows for a year in all aspects in accordance with international financial reporting standards. The business results of the Croatian National Bank reflected significant inter-currency changes that marked developments in the global foreign exchange markets during 2003. The most significant impact on the exchange rate differences had a decline in the value of $1 per kuna, with the share of dollars in total international reserves at December 31st at 26.65%. The exchange differences under the Law on the Croatian National Bank and International Financial Reporting Standards are recorded in revenue and expenditure, resulting in an accounting deficit of revenue and losses of €621 million. The report shows that without the impact of the calculation exchange rate differences, the Croatian National Bank would generate an excess revenue over expenditure of 278 million 569 thousand kuna. For these reasons, the Croatian National Bank has shown a total expenditure deficit of 342 million kuna, significantly lower than in 2002 when the deficit was 597 million kuna. I would also like to refer to the addition of the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003 sent to the Croatian Parliament on 16 September. The above can be linked to the preliminary debate on the stand by the arrangements of the Republic of Croatia with the International Monetary Fund or the changes related to the way the budget of the consolidated general government was calculated in 2003. According to the modified accounting principle, which includes total and unsecured liabilities, the deficit in the budget of the consolidated general government in 2003 is 12.2 billion kuna, which is 6.3% of the value of the gross domestic product and not kuna 9.8 billion or 5.1 values of the gross domestic product according to the establishment of the budget deficit, according to the cash principle. The report shows that in 2003 the debt of the general government was increased by 9.4 billion kuna and reached 44% of gross social product at the end of the year. The general government's foreign debt increased by 6.3 billion kuna and amounted to 29.6% of gross domestic product. This budget deficit is mainly financed by foreign borrowing and the funds achieved by privatisation. I would also like to point out some other allegations contained in the Croatian National Bank Report. Croatia's total foreign debt increased by 8.2 billion US dollars in 2003. So, from $15.4 billion in 2002 to $23.6 billion. Of that, foreign debt of banks increased by 83.3%, debt to businesses by 49.5% while foreign debt to the state increased by 33%. In order to slow down foreign debt growth, the Croatian National Bank adopted certain measures and tightened monetary policy in 2003 because the rate of foreign debt growth has become unsustainable and Croatia has drawn close to the border that divides medium-indebted countries from high-indebted countries. According to the report of the Croatian National Bank, we can see very well what economic and fiscal policy has been under way over the past period, especially during the past year, and what the results of such policies are. I am convinced that the Croatian government will succeed in stopping such negative trends by its measures in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23300	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23301	Mr. President, Deputy Governor, the governor's jokes, colleagues and colleagues! It is obvious that the Croatian National Bank's report for the past year gives us all the opportunity to analyse this last year but to try to think about what to do in the coming years because it is certain that this document can help us Assembly MPs to adopt this document, and I would say the law and when we adopt planning documents for the next period. The biggest problem that will arise among us will unfortunately be the fact that listening to this debate we see we have different approaches in reading these documents so that we can assess both the situation and the achievement in 2003, so it will probably be the reason that as representatives, we will approach different ways of determining individual policies, plans and certain adoption of some of the laws. I'll stick to the comments on foreign debt because I see that in this debate the greatest attention has turned to foreign debt. And it is evident that, in some ways, by discussing it, we also have different conclusions. Someone says foreign debt is a problem. True, until yesterday, we were listening to the adjectives of the Argentinean type and serious analysts who consider what was happening in 2003 to conclude the trend in the growth of debt is problematic, the trend of the increase in debt demand for intervention not only by the executive monetary authorities but probably also by the parliamentary authorities. And that's what we have to deal with, and we have to try to find instruments and measures to sort of control debt growth, to slow down that fast... What surprises me a little bit and why we're running away from the debate is the structure of the debt that was given in the findings and documents of this report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means how many states you owe, how many banks, how many companies, how many foreign investments you have, because you have such a structure on the pages of the National Bank, and it can help us a lot, and then we'll see who did it the most in the last year, so we'll try to see what the reasons for that debt are and if they're just as negative. Of course, when we enter that structure a little bit, then it is still evident that the biggest debt in the banks is, so when we know that the banks have also followed companies, partly the state and the citizens, then we realize that simply a long, long delay in Croatia's investment in capital infrastructure, capital values are independently given by an individual company or economy, or the state is the reason for that debt. We can also conclude, of course, that companies have also started, which means that capital recovery, investment or investment has also taken place at last in the private sector. And of course, then we have to say that there's a question of responsibility more expensive. When we observe only the government's duty because we always say the biggest problem is creating a theory of fear until yesterday's Argentina. But the truth I must say in these truly seven eight months this adjective has been very rarely mentioned and the descriptive adjective of our debts which I am glad we no longer frighten the citizens. But we're trying to say eight and a half billion dollars in debt last year. And let's try to regain the structure of what we're going to get. If we save two-and-a-half billion dollars of exchange rates, which means it's not a debt, it's a change of course, then we'll see if the state has borrowed about a billion and a half dollars. A billion and a half. That's the public sector. Are you trying to tell us where we're going with that part, that one part of the increased consumption of that direct dujet? That's probably two-and-a-half, 2.7, 2.8 percent of the deficit when we look at what real consumption is bigger than we make our revenues in the budget annually. And all other reasons are that the state has to deal with if it wants to solve the structural problems that are listed. Because the main problem is public consumption, efficiency of public services and public services, as well as the problem of structural change in Croatian society. When we evaluate it then we estimate that we have high subsidies in shipbuilding, food industry, agriculture, consolidation of companies. If we had high-ranking simple debts the state has due to the war, due to social problems, I would say solving the consequences of the war. And then we put in a relationship with this entire country's debt with these problems that the state is dealing with. The truth must also be put on what is considered to be an investment in capital large-scale infrastructure, which the state also monitors. And let's try to grade that part. We all love Ernestin's, Jeljavin's. We have entered the European System of Electrical Networks. We're all proud of it all built on this ino debt, to a deficit that's constantly mentioned. The road to Split is yes. We're all happy proud, but we don't want to put in a relationship with the deficit. According to where these deficits are, where they're ino public debt. Are we having an open conversation about this? Do we want to tell the citizens what we've done with it? It's our problem that we don't talk about it openly. Not eight and a half billion, we must intimidate the built Croatia. What's the point? You can't talk so realistically about the economy and even less realistically make decisions for tomorrow. I think when we bring down the structure that we have the National Bank documents and we start talking and what's done then we'll get to it. Because I'm really wondering if we don't think we're gonna track the shipbuilding and every monitoring of the shipbuilding is tomorrow's intervention. Is tomorrow's foreign debt. Every investment in electricity is a debt. If we give it up, we won't. We can't give up. And of course, wanting to go on about it because it's important to stop trends, I'm not going to talk about trading societies because I think they should be in charge. We don't need to be burdened by the risks of foreign banks because they're following our companies. We don't need to worry about that. They should be on their way. What we have to ask ourselves is the balance of payments deficit. Account deficit. That's what we have to follow. And it's not a question of whether we can be satisfied, slowly exporting our growth. It's growing slowly. It must please us. Because it's hard. But we need to understand that part of the success of the deficit in solving deficits is the reduction of imports. And you know that one of the big problems is that the documents in this report say, energy, electricity and oil. Too much imports, gas imports and we have it in the Adriatic. We might have some poison, because we have a thermo power plant on the gas that we need to build. We should have built it already. Do you know her price? They'll all be built out of credit. Because we want to be afraid of it. We're afraid of the railroad. Then what do we need? Services for transport by Croatian railways to do Deute banka. He won't. And yet we're going to build it out of credit, again it's a deficit for why. Well, because we put the irons in the deficit ourselves. Well, there's no such thing as a deficit anywhere in the world. Because it's a company. Trade company. And that's why, by following these up-to-date less party theory, better quality reading and trying to give our answers. Because it's not just a matter of financial monitoring in the country. Economics is asking us to be responsible for economic policies. And economic policy must be related to development and we must fight this transition for subsidies to help companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23302	Thank you very much. We've completed an individual discussion. We have another five minutes on behalf of the HD Club for a respected representative of the Arthrial Shima.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23303	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's another time to briefly recapitulate this debate over the report. I could free to put it right at three points and end it. But I'll try to remind you very briefly. First, let's have the structure and tendencies that this report contains. And of course those tendencies should be regulated by what we all agree, the strut is such so that around it we can slow down Tendence's full control. Is that how much it is now, then, that issue of debate that we will certainly continue to drag all together? And the third report is accepted. However, allow for another brief, very brief recapitalization of this very report, which includes the need for conclusions, in fact, from the fact that these tendencies must be controlled. And nothing else. First, the fact that we have a deficit after the final recorded state of 6.3%, and that's the fact, and that's what we're going to start in further discussions and further structure of that report. We have economic growth, and an increase in gross national income of 4.3%, I repeat, has a tendency to drop from 5.2% to the previous year. So he has a negative tendency. We must then try to regulate it in which way, especially when this structure increases gross national income we have mainly from capital imports and mainly from consumption. So we have to control these two elements negative then we have to control inside of it. And now it's always a matter of instruments and we'll be able to agree on that. We have low inflation. We all agree when it suits us. And eventually when it doesn't suit us, then we'd let a little inflation go. It's not just a ghost from a bottle, so then how, it was just before and by crossing from Yugoslavia. And now it's worth as much control as possible. We heard all the stories about it. We agree that he is so tall, that he is not intolerable for our society, and all the question is how to regulate him. But that's what we need to discuss when we discuss measures for this year or this year's budget, I'm thinking about the next and the other policy that we're going to lead. A strong fiscal deficit, that's a fact, and now we have to agree on how we're going to solve this fact. So we're starting from recording the situation, that these are negative tendencies and that we have to stop these negative tendencies. The biggest increase in yo debt, so we're talking about facts, but we're also talking about the fact that yo debt will grow further. I've already elaborated that. Because we can't serve a huge debt so far, and the biggest one, unfortunately, has been in the last year. From the liberation and from the creation of the Croatian state. There are facts, therefore, that we must contain such a further responsibility. And finally, through all the data we have, it's the same fact that we have a negative economic growth in industrial production, a fall. Now, what we're going to do is make that industrial production or stop that trend or, in reasonable time, stop it, I think we all share the same interest, but another view of how to do it. And in that sense, in that reality, we must take action and try to agree on them. As part of this overall relationship, there is no doubt that the Croatian National Bank must play its part and its part in monetary policy which will play a role as a competitor to control all these elements and aggregates that affect the situation within it. We therefore hold that this report should be accepted, that we must withdraw lessons from the content of negative tendencies in the previous year to try to control them and restrain them in this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23304	Thank you. And please Vice Governor of the National Bank of Croatia Mr. Boris Vujčić for the final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23305	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I thank everyone for the debates on the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank. I'll stick to just a few things that have been repeated and try to explain in a short while that I'm not taking too much time. The first was to repeat a few times the loss, as there was a loss. Several MPs mentioned that the Croatian National Bank has it and business banks do not have it. I'd like to point out one more time. It is, first of all, that there is no comparison between the business bank and the Croatian National Bank. The structure of the balance sheet of business banks and the Croatian National Bank is completely different in a way that business banks have a harmonised passive and activity, because we are looking for them as regulators to have them, while the Croatian National Bank, by definition, is working as a quasi-curate board and emits fully swearing by buying foreign exchanges on one side, and on one side only foreign exchanges. So that business banks have kunas and EUR, and the Croatian National Bank has EUR and dollars because we have to ensure the liquidity of the state and all liabilities of the state, means both private and public entities that they can fulfil their obligations to the abroad whether they are in the dollar or in the EUR. And that's why it's even impossible to compare one position and another. The other thing is again, it's like a couple of times over, and I'm not going to repeat that it's not about accounting loss, we've had real profits, realised, and unrealised loss, because of accounting standards that we've accepted in Article 53 of the International Accounting Standards. What can always be seen and assessed as how the Croatian National Bank managed international reserves is the contribution we made to the reserves, and for this I must say that the Croatian National Bank for 2003 received the award as the best central bank in Central and Eastern Europe, which made the best contributions to managing international reserves and came because we changed, or extended the maturity of our international reserves that we actively manage at the moment when interest rates went down. So, at the moment that they're still, actually, when they continue to fall, while others didn't believe it would happen and they didn't extend the training of their portfolios. So in that respect, I think we've done a very good even result. The second thing that has been repeated is this contribution that we sent around the budget deficit of 6.3%. It's very simple. There are two ways to normally publish budget deficits each year. One is according to the cash principle, the other is according to the budget principle. At the time of the publication of the Croatian National Bank report, there was only information on the cash principle and only later became available information on the accounting principle and we uniquely completed the report with the data and the accounting principle. If you look into the past, last year's reports released both data and other information, both on cash and accounting principles. In this respect, of course, the Croatian National Bank fully retains autonomy and simply does what it does every year. As for the course that is also mentioned several times and the fluctuations of the course, why are they as they are, whether something can be done with the exchange rate policy, I must say that I would personally be very pleased if the kuna exchange rate according to EUR was 10:1 and that everything else would be the same. Unfortunately, that's impossible. It is impossible from a situation where the exchange rate according to EUR 7.5 comes at 10:1 without changing anything else. Simply, the economy is such a thing where everything is interdependent and if you change one thing then the whole set of others changes. We definitely estimate that the risks are intended, or encouraged by the central bank, the depreciation of the course, much greater than could be possible usefulness. What is the underlying risk is an extremely fast substitution that could occur between kuna and foreign exchanges in this situation. We know that there is a long history in Croatia and that dates back to the former Yugoslavia the fear of losing the value of holding home money and therefore we have such a high degree of Euroisation. If there were citizens of any company who noticed that there was a deliberate incentive of depression, which would have been done, which would have been done by each of you, and would have immediately transferred everything in kunas to foreign exchanges, and at that point it would no longer be a controlled depreciation because if everyone had started to do so, then a simple course would have gone so far as to create huge credit risks, so does everyone also have loans with a currency clause and would have simply increased credit rates. Companies, individuals and states would all have much more payments than they have now, which would certainly lead to credit risk that would lead to bankruptcy of any individual companies and rotated like a spiral in the financial system and could then have problems with banks again. Therefore, we simply can't do it in this situation of high Euroisation, 80% of credit with the currency clause, we can't do it. Finally, I might even say something about it, it was also about what the Croatian National Bank can do other than its basic objectives. Of course, the fundamental goal is given by law, it's to maintain price stability. Not the stability of the course. The stability of the course is only an indirect objective to achieve price stability. In an agreement with the International Monetary Fund, in this introductory wording, the monetary litigation policy is beautifully written, given the openness of the economy, the strong commercial link with the euro area of large capital flows and the poor ability to protect against currency risk, the CNB intends to carry out its task of maintaining price stability by continuing to maintain the general stability of the kuna exchange rate according to the EUR. Furthermore, the high degree of integration between Croatian banks and companies with the international capital market limits the possibility of the CNB affecting the level of economic activity, current account deficits and foreign debt. So our options in this respect are limited, but we will continue as long as we can in 2003 and as we do this year, work to help our policy with monetary support for the overall economic policy of the Republic of Croatia. What we are about to do is to introduce these operations in the open market soon, so this is the announced objective of the Croatian National Bank and towards it, it will probably not be realised by the end of this year, but it will likely be in the beginning of next year, and we will practically create another monetary policy distribution which will enable us to coordinate the short-term liquidity in the monetary market and to smooth out the high fluctuations of interest rates that are necessary by making monetary policy more restrictive. We will also encourage the re-financing of external debt on the domestic market, and we believe that this is good, but we should bear in mind that there are limited opportunities. Debt can only be refinanced on the domestic market in the size of domestic savings. And if there's no domestic savings, then it's impossible to refinance foreign debt on the domestic market. What we did the day before yesterday, reduced the minimum reserve rate, we practically released some of the domestic immobilized savings to make it easier for the state to refinance and repay foreign debts. However, there is a limit to that. We can't bring down the minimum reserve rate again, very quickly without disrupting the other side of the exchange rate stability. In other words, lowering the minimum reserve rate is directly linked to the level of international reserves because if you, meaning total international reserves have their counterpoint in kunas in the system and when we lower the minimum reserve rate we release kuna liquidity, we increase the offer of kuna which creates pressure on the deperition of the kuna course and then in order to maintain the stability of the kuna course we need to intervene from international reserves. So faster down the minimum reserve rate, which is our wish and our goal and we would like to do so would also be linked to the drop in international reserves and, of course, would not be desirable. So on this road we will try to go towards a higher rate of mandatory reserve means also smoothing the fluctuation of interest rates, but it must be kept in mind that none of this will be possible overnight and very quickly rather than that it will be a longer transition process in the process of joining the European Union. Once again, I thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-10-15-0.u23306	Thank you, Vice Governor Wolf. I'm closing the debate. Resume session at 3:00. Voting on discussed agenda points, please prepare the keys, those who may have forgotten to ensure that there is a replacement and see you at 3:00. And the Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Report of the Croatian National Bank for 2003 is accepted. Please come in. The vote. Score. I find that with 102 votes for, 2 abstentions and 5 against the proposed conclusion.
