ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29586	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Here, let me briefly explain the reasons for passing this law. The area regulated by the law has not been fully regulated so far, therefore, standards which are not sufficiently in line with the European Union's standards as the largest external trade partner in the Republic of Croatia are applied. The adoption of this law will create a legal basis for the trade in unprocessed wood, taking into account norms and practices of EU countries as well as countries with developed economies. It is also taken into account the new conditions on the market, and also through the application of this law, starting from the assumption that the Republic of Croatia is a producer, as well as an exporter of unprocessed wood, the conditions are created not only for the easier trade and traffic of unprocessed wood but also allow statistical monitoring of the production, sale, consumption and price of unprocessed wood. The draft law regulates the following areas. Classification of unprocessed wood, exemption from the application of classification rules, inspection of law enforcement as well as criminal provisions. This law should be adopted in order to comply with Croatian legislation with EU rules, in particular Council Directive 68/89. The EEE of 23 January 1968 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the classification of unprocessed wood. The draft law was delivered to all offices for the legislation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on which they gave a positive opinion. The Ministry of European Integration issued a statement of compliance of the draft law with the acquis of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure for the implementation of the National Programme for EU Accession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29587	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected representative Mato Šimac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29588	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in 2004 provides for the adoption of the Law on the classification of unprocessed wood to be in line with the Council Directive of 23 January 1968 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the classification of unprocessed wood. The aim of the law is to regulate the application of norms and the classification of unprocessed wood which has not been regulated so far. The adoption of this law creates conditions for easier trade in unprocessed wood and statistical monitoring of the production, sale, consumption and prices of unprocessed wood. The law defines the basis for classification, method of classification and marking, conditions for placing on the market classified unprocessed wood originating in the Republic of Croatia and prescribed that the classification of unprocessed wood will be carried out by the company of the Croatian Forests d.o.o. This law provides for the adoption of a sub-legislative regulation to regulate the measurement, classification, marking of unprocessed wood in accordance with the proposal for a directive, thus equating itself with the regulation of the Member States of the European Union. The law stipulates that inspection tasks are carried out in accordance with this law by the Forest Inspectorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy under the provisions of the Law on Forests and in Transport, the Economic Inspectorate of the State Inspectorate. The law also provides for violations and fines for violations. The draft proposal was submitted to the opinion of the Office for Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of European Integration, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Justice. The draft proposal incorporated the comments of the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship. Since the Ministry of European Integration issued a statement on the harmonisation of the draft rules on the legal gains of the European Union, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29589	Thank you very much. The club of representatives of the HNS-PGS, respected representative Antun Kavrljevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29590	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! The Croatian People's Party and PGS club will in any case support the adoption of this law, but some things are not very clear there. In any case, we would be far more satisfied if we had a proposal for a strategy for wood production on the table, so it was probably more taken care of by one fact that is very painful in Croatia and this bill does not say that this is bad, in any case we need to comply with our standards with European norms and that is fine. On two occasions, however, you and your colleague, Stimac, have expressed confidence that this will help transport the unprocessed wood, and I would like to present some information that makes traffic to the unprocessed tree in Croatia very bad. And why is it bad? Because it's at the expense of our entire economy because 63% of the production in 2002 was exported as sawdust and elements. We have exported 117 thousand cubic metres of oak, 194,000 cubic metres of beech and the rest of 83,000 cubic metres. That's 395 thousand cubic meters we've exported. That's 63% of total production coming out as raw wood. So that data we have that concerns employment in that branch where when we look at that furniture production and the rest of the processing industry we had in 1990, we had 35,000 employees to fall to 10,000 184 in 2003. This means that we are exporting raw materials and firing employees, and if we continue with this trend, I believe very little will remain for those who will work in that branch because the only information that does not worry is that those who work in the production of sawed buildings and board there did not decrease the number of employees and remained in 1990 was 11 thousand 930 and in 2003 remained at 11 thousand 820. This means, only in this, in unprocessed logs we have not reduced the number of employees and all other furniture, office furniture and furniture production in any case, our workers are out of work. And if we look at it, it's 25,000 lost jobs in the wood-peraing industry. When compared to Poland which adopted its strategy and based on this strategy, it managed to raise production in the wood, wood-processing industry by 38%. And I have to single out the companies that are coming to work in Poland, so among other things, I'd like to show an example of an IKE that's $426 million willing to invest in the Polish furniture industry for the next three years. We don't have such big furniture manufacturers. And by the way, IKEA employs 8 thousand employees in Poland, which is almost 80% of all employees in the wood-processing industry. And that's why I think it's okay for us to comply with our standards with the European Union, make that classification of unprocessed wood and make that inspection quality quality and it's especially important because of some statistics that we know because so far this statistics we've had has been completely unsettled and I claim that even exports of that raw wood have been more and more. However, since the classification was the same as it was, the wood in other classes was far higher and I believe that this percentage of exports would be far higher. So let us do something to make a strategy for reviving our processing, wood-processing industry because in this way, if we just keep exporting unprocessed wood, we could talk again in 30 years about some milky ones who came and cut down our forests and that's not good for us now and especially for future generations in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29591	Thank you. And the other part. On behalf of the CNS, the PGS, the esteemed representative of Alenka Koshasha Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29592	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The classification of unprocessed wood was carried out with us much earlier on by the basis of former jus norms that were only taken over into Croatian norms. Thus, the classification of unprocessed wood was firsted according to the applicable norms throughout the time it was in force so-called. administrative price list. In addition to these standards in Croatia, however, the European standards that are for customers and manufacturers are also assumed, are not mandatory but are contractual and are the expression of free will by both sides. Although there were initially great pressures on the adoption of these standards, mainly by customers who expected that by adopting these standards there would be a reduction in wood prices, after the National Institute for Standardization and Measurement adopted European standards, customers were finally not ready to accept them. The relevant difference is contained in Article 3. Proposal for a law of classification of unprocessed wood because Croatian norms classify wood by purpose and quality. For example. to veneer, cellulose and the like. While European norms classify the tree exclusively by quality, on a, b, c, classification. The commitment of customers to introduce European standards was solely motivated by price correction, but what is most important is that the price is not defined administratively but marketically. The last coalition government made a decision to deregulate prices but the application only revived recently. In the Republic of Croatia there is no classical stock exchange of wood construction and only 10% of goods are sold through public competition while 90% are sold directly in contract. Discussing this Law, we must stress that it does not bring any significant newspapers and that nothing is particularly regulated but only in many articles empowers the Minister to settle this with additional regulations. In addition to the comments made to Article 3 which, when literally applied to coalitions with still valid Croatian norms and not only in that sense, we have made an amendment to introduce the dimension to the species and to the purpose and quality of which the disagreement would be avoided. Article 4 is also unsustainable from the title of restricting rights and other forest owners. In the Republic of Croatia today, about 20% of the forests are privately owned and the combustion of these 464 thousand hectares is owned by as many as 580 thousand owners, i.e. around 0.7% of hectares on average forest private property. But that doesn't mean that tomorrow there won't be any significant forest owners with their own forest staff who can classify and mark wood. For example. The church, the return of the forest to the church. In Croatia, around 4% are now exported from the total production of the halves. It's a rare situation for the domestic industry to buy a domestic area and then resell it, but that's what happens. But what we should be concerned about is the fact that almost 60 – 70% of the gulf in Croatia has been drained at the lowest level and treated as such exports. Not administratively prohibiting exports but by encouraging measures to stimulate the opening of the finalisation and processing plant. However, transport costs are significant in the price of wood, so long distance transport is not paid and there are other important conditions for the wood to be finished with us. Interestingly, though, the largest wood processors are exactly where that natural wealth is not actually present. For example. Northern Italy or Denmark, but the lack of it seems to encourage work. And finally. There may not be a month that we have returned the forest inspection to the Ministry of Resurrect and amended the forest law, so it would certainly be notified to be discussed in Article 10 where inspection works are being carried out along with economical allegations and forest inspectors. We from the Croatian People's Party and the Primorje-Gorskin alliance will support the Proposal for this Law on the Classification of Unprocessed Tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29593	Thank you very much. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29594	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The HSP club finds it a huge mistake to pass this law by emergency procedure. Namely, in this law, when it comes to emergency procedures, then there is no, lacks an assessment of the situation. Because in the first reading in every law is an integral part of the assessment of the situation. And the assessment of the situation in this area, so the classification of unprocessed wood is such that it's also a large space of huge, huge machinations and everything else that's going on in this area. Namely, I'll briefly try to tell you on behalf of the HSP Club what all irregularities are and not tell you the implications of the event in this area. You know the saying, it says on the invoice the ore-heated tree and in nature the furnier log. Now that's the situation at this point regarding how to classify and mark unprocessed wood. And this situation is still present today and it increases from day to day because there are various... of ordinary logars and all others within the framework of the Croatian forests and the whole situation, which only contributes that this problem will not be solved in this way by this Law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are also other machinations in this area, which are so-called. Forest lagers, meaning manufacturers, or processors, can use wood from forest lagers, that means that it takes the amount that it has, and otherwise it is a forest lager and then reports what amount it has taken. Finally there comes that part of the famous that he has his own takeovers and goes to the version of the write-off and means 5 – 6% of the various advertising is performed and it goes to harm, who goes to the harm of the Croatian state. We must be aware that, the forests of state capital and the Croatian state has entrusted the management of forests, to whom, the public enterprise, i.e. now more, is now the Croatian forest. And what's the situation in that area? I'll try to elaborate on you for a little while. The orderly size of the annual planned production of wood varieties moves somewhere around a million and 539 to a million and 600 meters cubic. That's an annual value of over a billion kuna. So the annual value is over a billion kuna, with this part constantly increasing and increasing from year to year, so that the annual level of increase in the volume of production of troops according to the plans of the Croatian forests is increasing by approximately 100,000 metres. The sale of wood varieties is carried out mainly on the basis of a contract with known customers, which is previously placed under known criteria on the list of priorities as a participant in the final processing of wood, wood. It is important to note here that there are numerous craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs performing primary wood processing. The sawmills have high demand for raw materials, logs, and they employ very few workers, even more often black workers. Finally, due to the occasional shortages of wood varieties, the companies on the market whose offer depends on dynamics and production conditions often become a stalemate in the production of larger production facilities with a final processing of wood that employs an average of over 100 workers, which raises the question of their liquidity, which often the same companies handle with unfavourable credits, the acquisition of less quality troupes, the purchase of finished primary wood processing products, the reduction and disbursement of salaries by employees, the layoff of workers and even bankruptcys. The registration of produced and sold wood varieties through inventory lists shows an annual difference between produced and sold wood varieties in significant quantities. For example, for 1999, this amounted to 28 thousand metres of cubic meters, whose approximate value on the market is about EUR 1 million, and the same amounts of Croatian forests explain it because of the bonification, declassification and various types of inventory of goods. So the situation in Croatia is your next. Take the Gorski Kotar, you only have two sawmills, and you have 95 sawmills in Zagreb. And now it's really happening: that what's the best quality tree, so the furrier log first gets those at the top, and that's what the Italians and the rest of us are doing, and we're exporting but the floor, the question of what kind of classification it is, it's not the exception but it's becoming a rule to invoice the heating tree, and it's actually getting a furrier's log. And what's left of ours? Ours remains after that to the producers auctioning, and the auctioning means, you know what it is and how it is implemented, how it can't come to quality wood, and that way we import furniture and everything else from Italy or from other countries that we export quality wood to, but not under the classification that it's a furrier log, but it's a second or third class, and in this way we won't do anything about it. This way we won't do anything with this law because it doesn't solve it. And for this reason, our proposal for an amendment to Article 4 is that this section of classification and marking is not carried out by the Croatian Forests, let it be carried out by the Agency to be designated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which has a certificate for that part, so we will thus introduce order into this section of marking and classification. So let the agency, which has a certificate, which can do so, be launched by the Government public tender and thus we will introduce order into this area because we are allowing this part of what has been done so far, and that this part will be carried out by the Croatian Forest itself, and these problems that we are talking about have taken place within these Croatian forests themselves, and these problems will not be solved in this way, but will continue to be produced. And on the other hand, the state will not ensure its large wood processing producers in this area that they get the appropriate and timely wood they need for processing but will continue to go on who is closer to that pit, which are the Italians and others, and our production will still be at the level at which it is. Therefore, we regret that this law did not go into two readings because it could be precisely defined, protected by state capital, which are forests, forests are state-owned and prevent any machinations that occur in this area because in this way we will not do so. The only way to accept our amendment is to mark and classify trees do not work themselves in Croatian forests. Let it do so on behalf of the state authorized agency, there are many in this area in Croatia, and then we will get a guarantee that it will not steal state property, and you know that it is moving on these lagers by writing off and this part of the classification of 5% to 6% of what is produced, and you must agree that it is orderly size over a million EUR per year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29595	Thank you. The HSS Club, the Honorable Representative, Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29596	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. First of all, all of you, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all from this debate, the proposal for a law on the classification of unprocessed wood. This law is intended to introduce a certain order into this problem but in the wider forest circles it is not recognized as such since by its work, by its passing it, the foresters are now speaking of us, here first and foremost as a forester, and then in front of the club I don't think it will be recognized. First of all, because, as with many other laws, most of the rules concerning this law will be passed later by the Minister or the Ministry, and we are not deciding on it now, but will be decided later by the Minister in implementing regulations. Then a full part of the work, as has already been said here, is entrusted to the state-owned company, which is normal because most of the experts in that branch have a state-owned company and there I would not agree with a colleague before me who spoke, Kovacevic, who cited a whole series of statements that are adjective reviews, so I would ask him to discuss it later, we do not have to replicate. Furthermore, this Law provides for drastic penalties ranging from 50 to 300 thousand kuna for the offence of a legal person or for the offence of a responsible person. What will drastic punishment move you to do? It will only encourage that this classification is not done properly as prescribed. Because if you can punish someone for an ocular assessment of a variety that is not a kilogram of something or a ton that can be measured precisely in this way but is estimated around it, often in forest conditions when there is a lot of mud, when that log is practically impossible to see until it is opened on the sawmill, which contains everything inside, that ocular assessment is often impossible to do exactly. And she's prone to free judgment. In that part, I think this kind of drastic punishment will only lead to trying under pressure to please customers. On the other hand, Croatia's forests will also try to make every buyer who buys come to the place to take over goods, which means that the wood industry will have to have as many shipping companies as Croatian forests today, and this will be an increased cost. In that deal of this kind of drastic punishment, here's where my colleagues in the company warned me this morning. They're not practical because there's gonna be a subplating of these goods. It is also strange that the serob that is classified in the Republic of Croatia as such must be classified in one company and that in the import into the Republic of Croatia as non-classified, and here says it does not have to be classified according to our laws. That means someone who imports that stuff nea has to classify it and we don't know who's gonna do it. if the goods come classified under some other law or are not classified at all. In that part, I think that article should have been made up of different concepts and tried to change it. Our proposal is that until we decide on this law, the Ministry is nevertheless manifested about it and try to find it, and remove these remarks which are indicated in these two proposals. Also, given that these penalties are higher than one month’s salary in relation to the person responsible today and that the number of varieties is extremely high, there is a reasonable aggravation that today in trade relations it is kind of normal to first agree some common views about it if it is not classified according to the applicable rules today. We have a stamping rule, an escort and so on. And if there is a dispute first in today's terms, we remove it by meeting each other with the commissions of companies and wood industry. And if it doesn't come to an agreement then the arbiter is an independent house. It means "inspective" or "shuming college" who have such experts. I think it's a good way to carry out it in the future, and that is, in accordance with the laws that are being ruled in Germany today, where such mutual disagreements over certain ocular assessments can be brought in line with each other. I don't think it's going to allow what we wanted at first, to have a proper classification. And there he would even agree with his colleague Kovacevic if we were to try to find someone who would do it because in this way if we punish those who do it every day and that is the means of those who are in charge of that forest manager then we will often lead to the possibility that because of these great punishments and fear of inspections simply, there will be a subclassification of certain goods. And this automatically means greater damage to businesses today only, most of the wood mass produces and these are today Croatian forests and tomorrow perhaps someone else. In this part of the law, I think it will not lead to quality implementation and will not lead to a quality shift in that regulation. And I agree, of course, that such a law should be passed, only we suggest that until the vote, the ministry should be made aware of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29597	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29598	My colleague Ledinsky said that I was on behalf of the Club of Pausal Assessment. I didn't do the flat-rates, I did the national inspectorate's report for the period I was talking about. And did the flat-rate estimate that the difference through the investment lists of Croatian forests is about 30 thousand cubic metres annually, which is your order of size at the level of the year over a million euros. Is that a cochlean rating? Is the flat-rate assessment that I brought out the koloj of Croatian forests annually. Is it a cobwebs assessment that there's a warm tree on the Fakutura and it's in the nature of a furnier's hull? That's all the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29599	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Željko Ledinski.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29600	I think my colleague Kovacevic hurt Article 214. The Rules of Procedure, because he says what I didn't say, you know. He's told us a whole series of statements that I haven't even told or talked about, and I think that hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29601	When a representative agrees with or disagrees with something, and the other appears to correct the incorrect allegations, then someone reports for the lead of the business, whether it is generally polymised and referred to it. We don't need that. Dear representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29602	Thank you, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. So here we are facing a brief and clear law that regulates matters of the classification of unbearded wood, inspection supervision, criminal decrees and exemption from application. It has also been pointed out that so far we have not even been regulated in this area because of this I consider it justified to pass this law, and the same if we are harmonising it with the legislation of the European Union and the directives of the Council of Europe. I consider it a good thing that inspection supervision of the implementation of this law takes over the forest inspection of the Ministry of Agriculture, and I would like to express my opinion as to what questions are raised about the conduct of the business in the case of the Croatian Forests, I think they are a modelly formed public enterprise and there should be no doubt there. I also think it is good that Croatian forests perform professional swearing in private forests. And here when talking about these excessive penalties, maybe you should really think about it because when we had some other legal provisions where maybe the violations were even more important, the punishments weren't that big. Which I've come forward to discuss here. So here's why I come from Vukovar County Srijemski County, where forests occupy 28.3% of the area and only in the area of the former municipality of County is 5 forests and alone as a medical specialist in medicine work for years not to say for decades I've been working with forests precisely with forest workers and motor saw cutters. Who do one really hard and dangerous job. And that's why I'm still invited to argue because I've been listening for years to the problems of small craftsmen who own sawmills or small craftsmen who produce finished furniture and big ones like our wood industry longer Lužnjak. Who unfortunately went bankrupt and his employees still seek their unfulfilled claims when it comes to salaries and severances of about six million kunas. And those who were often justified objecting that they could not obtain raw materials. We've seen here that one part of it is shown that one small part of it is sold in public competition. So I don't think this law really regulates it. But if we needed this state-of-the-art development of the wood industry, it was necessary, so just so that here are these areas where there's also a natural wealth and there's a forest, in order to allow them to come to such raw materials, that we have to stimulate to stimulate production. And not selling unprocessed wood or sawn buildings, so we see that every little one of the sawmills of the A, while it means processing and exporting finished products, I think we have good experts and good workers and good factories and good little craftsmen. They should only be stimulated because I say I consider this strategy to be necessary for the development of the wood industry. Where the stimulated export of finished crops would be. Not exporting such unprocessed wood or sawdust. I would also like to point out that here, forest rent for local self-government units, the exploitation is only 2.5%, which has also been pointed out for years in the counties that this is really small and since these are, here, and the counties that are also poorer, I think that this forest rent should be seriously considered to increase. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29603	Thank you very much. Does State Secretary Josip Bartolcic want a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29604	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, since there have been different observations on the proposed law, I think it is necessary to explain with a few more words the certain doubts that have arisen. The fact is, this is a new law that we haven't had so far, it's true. And there is also a great fact that this Law was adopted in 68 years by the former Federal Republic of Germany and applied it to this day unaltered. Therefore, it is in its original form and that all other issues which are not regulated by this Act have been settled or regulated by sublaws or regulations. If Germany could do it, I don't see why Croatia can't do it. It's, like this, the first finding I have to say here because it's often from the statement that not all questions are regulated by the law. It is true that the Law could have been more extensive, more extensive, but we have just managed the way it was applied in the European Union, therefore, in Germany and where it experienced one general application and accepted as such. We believe that, since the rules are already in the works, that it is the sublegal acts that we will regulate all the life issues that you said in your discussions as necessary, and that we will not reduce the importance of the law, especially that we will not reduce the importance of all the objections that have possibly remained open because of this indeterminateness, according to you, of the law. But here it is also necessary to say something about our wood industry that we are all so concerned about, and for 14 years, the wood industry has been going through the same or similar problems that, unfortunately, we have not, to date, had any serious parliamentary debate because I believe that it deserves it, at least in relation to the importance it should have in this society. Especially in relation to the raw materials it has and which it uses for its production. Today we are calling for lost jobs, and the wood industry as well as all other economies have suffered some transition changes. This is one thing, and the second most important thing to me is that since 96, when a regulation on administrative pricing in forestry has been adopted, great damage has been done to the wood industry. It has most manifested itself through lost jobs that we are talking about today, and that is precisely in the final processing of furniture production. However, the production of furniture is not limited to the raw materials that we have today and that we are so often proud of. That this is the best example is Italy, which, unlike most other countries, does not process its own raw materials but imports from different countries of Europe and the world, and especially from Croatia, has both high quality and profitable production furniture. Thus, we could analogly look up to the Italians, but it is also true that not everyone can do furniture production and that furniture production requires and something other than raw materials. Since Croatia is participating on the European market with 1% of the total share, it is illusory to expect that we will be some kind of leader in the development of the final wood industry. But what is certain is that our wood industry can be directed in a completely different way, i.e. to try to impose an imperative of the market for saw-up buildings in Croatia that today does not work. I won't say it exists, but it doesn't work. And also the market for our most valuable raw materials. There have also been speeches about the protection of domestic finalists. Well, because of the finalists of the past time, we've had a situation that today the Croatian forests have been sharing raw materials for a few days. So they didn't sell but shared through the contract, which annual as many years as possible. And we all called the Croatian forests that they were guilty because the wood industry was going down. If that's the case, then it's weird how someone shares something, and whoever gets it goes down. So there are obviously a lot of reasons that are not apostrophe here, and there will certainly be plenty of speeches, and among some of them we have, or rather, dealt with most of them in the strategy of developing the industrial processing of wood and paper that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted in its regular procedure on 4 August this year. It is this strategy that will provide us with the basis of the soon-to-be adoption of an operational programme for the development of industrial wood and paper processing to form or better redefined our wood industry. It also clearly requires radical changes from the meaning of the structure of interconnection and association, as well as probably from the definition of the Croatian export product or "brand". The Croatian wooden industry exports a "brand" called the Lužnjak oak and is known for it in the world, but few would find final products that quote in Europe as such and are recognized as those from Croatia. It is precisely the basis on which we are working on the Operational Development Programme where, through association, today popular in cluster association, we are trying to connect the primary processing and final processing of wood in Croatia where, as well as through the export strategy and the establishment of an export consortium in order to unite performances on the European and world markets, we are trying to find a wooden industry on that market demand because individual market excursions generally result in the situation we have today. And we must also point out here specifically about this Law, therefore, that the immeasurable role in the future development of the wood industry is also the role of Croatian forests, i.e. the management of Croatian forests. And precisely because of this management this Law will help us through its application, through the creation of sublegal acts that are listed, which will soon be adopted, and also through the application of the European norms that are mentioned here, and today are not applicable. And I'm only going to say two sentences, they're not applicable because in 2001, the wood industry rejected them as such because they didn't suit her at that time. So they are not the only Croatian forests that did not want European norms. Croatian forests, on the contrary, wanted them, but could not impose them. European norms can and must be the only imperative to regulate both the quality and the market relations between forestry and the wood industry in the future. Why have European norms not come to life as such so far? Well, one of the great reasons is because only 50% of European norms have not been translated at all. So they are not all translated and are not all able to use in the Republic of Croatia. This is just another of the demanding jobs that the Institute of Standardisation and Measurement will have to do in order to be able to implement European legislation to the end. Why are Croatian forests the ones that should be monitored? So because the Law on the Forests is also defined as being the very Croatian forests that are classifying according to the current law, and we will also suggest that in the new Law on the Forests be defined in the same way. And the key reason is that they are absolutely the most and most adequately educated in order to do so. The fact is, there are mistakes. However, these very mistakes must not be an obstacle to the system being perfected so that Croatian forests do not further educate their employees in this very way of classifying and applying European standards, but also to include relevant institutions in charge of controlling this classification. And it is the Faculty of Forests that is one of the institutions that will take care in the future that these European norms are applied in the way that the legislator and predicted, and we see nothing wrong with that because the transition and transition from Croatian norms to Europeans will certainly take at least a year for both the wood industry and the Croatian forests to agree on what is called application. And in European norms, unlike Croatian norms, there is one fundamental difference because they are defined by quality and not by intent and all of these possible ambiguities or better said delays that arise in terms of the existing mutual requirements for prescribing, have arisen from the standards defined according to purpose and it is logical that they are the matter of agreement, of course, in practice. The law said what Croatian norms are but in practice it was generally based on this particular purpose whether it was a furrier's hull or a sawmill's hull. So purpose. And that's not the essence of norms. The essence of European standards is quality and cannot be guessed. So there's no reason for anyone to suspect a declared troupe if it's to be declared by European norms. When this happens, when the conditions are obtained and they will be obtained very soon, then there will be no further question about the relation of that acquirer by the Croatian forests, as well as that acquirer by the representative of the purchaser of the wood industry. It just has to be a thing of the past. Why did we not, or why did we let the goods imported from other countries not have to be classified according to EU standards, i.e. according to Croatian norms or tomorrow European norms? So for reasons not all the members, or all the countries from which Croatia imports wood raw materials from a member of the European Union. It won't be tomorrow either. In particular, Bosnia and Herzegovina will probably not become a member of the European Union for some time, or Croatia will become sooner. And today we import from Bosnia, today we import from Slovenia and do not insist on the applicable laws that it be classified according to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, but according to domicile legislation, which is only logical. The moment Croatia becomes part of the European Union and these problems will also be groundless and we will certainly not discuss them in this way. And about the punishments, I have to say the following. After a period of alignment or a transitional period and after a levelling of criteria or a better wording of real application of European standards, it is truly illusory to expect that anyone in the Republic of Croatia should not respect or better say that it does not adhere to European standards. Anyone who does not respect European norms must know that they will suffer great consequences, or penalties. Croatian forests certainly do not have to look at any dangers in this area because it is imperative for us as government and also for Croatian forests as well as for companies that have received forest management areas that have this most valuable wealth that they have classified exactly as European standards require. If so, it is illusory to expect that it will not be so and logical if someone has to suffer the consequences of such work. We can't call for too much punishment from the title of subclassing. What does that mean? It means we won't already, today we know we won't apply European standards. It's just an observation that can't, can't exist like that. We need to act stimulatingly, and it is obvious that in some other ways we will regulate how we can get to European standards in reality as soon as possible. So I don't think there's gonna be a problem. And this law is just one of the fundamentals so that we can sublegalize all the issues that you've opened here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29605	Correction of the incorrect alleged representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29606	Mr. Secretary of State said the company "Croatian Forests" will also participate in the process of grading and marking unprocessed wood by someone from Croatia. I wish that were the case, but there's no law to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29607	Well, that's a good correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29608	He's saying something that's not in the law. And I was just suggesting...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29609	Well, it's not the same... So give it once, it's not a correction, it's a controversy with the secretary of state's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29610	Well, it's not controversy, so read article four, Mr. Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29611	Well, that's not true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29612	So read it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29613	I'm closing the debate. Final draft law on the classification of unprocessed wood, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 221. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the club of HSP MPs, Aleneka Košasa Chicin Shain and representative Željko Ledinski. Representative Luka Bebic, president of the Klub HDZ go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29615	Well, as usual, to make the seat move faster if it's too much change, it's better to raise your hands because it's going faster. That's the only reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29616	There aren't too many amendments. There's a few of them all. Mr. Pupovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29617	Mr. President, I don't know if you've overlooked it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29618	I didn't overlook it, we'll get to it. I heard you, that proposal of yours, not to vote on the bill of amendments and additions to political parties. I'll get to it. There are a few amendments. But in response to the proposal when it is proposed to vote by raising your hand with the amendment, then we will vote and raise our hands. So, Mr. Secretary of State, firstly, we will, which you have the amendment. First of all, the club of representatives of the HSP. Please. The amendment goes, the Secretary of State is manifested whether he accepts or does not accept the amendment. You're reading, and there's a vote on the amendment. You have an amendment to the HSP counseling club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29619	The government does not accept the amendment on the grounds that the forest law stipulates that Croatian forests d.o.o. carry out the marking and issuing of accompanying documentation for unprocessed wood. And otherwise, sublaws plan to prescribe an independent control of the classification of unprocessed wood, so we cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29620	Representative Peto Kovacavić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29621	So Article 4 states that it will be done by the Croatian Forests public enterprise. You're saying something else now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29622	It's said to classify.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29623	Yeah. And tagging.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29624	And you're asking him to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29625	Wait, Mr. Secretary of State, you explained, you said why you didn't accept the amendment, huh?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29626	Mr. Secretary of State said something different than what the law says. That's why I'm in doubt right now. If he thinks that the regulation will solve it so that someone independent will participate in the fact that it will no longer be done in a way that heats up the wood and, in fact, a furnier log. That's what we're talking about. And that's what they do in the Croatian forests. If you're going to solve it by sublegal regulations, then we'd be pulled. But if you won't, then I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29627	Yes, it's me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29628	No, you weren't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29629	We can't, gentlemen, please. We can't paralyze. You know the procedure for the amendment. You chose to make it clear to the secretary of state that you did not accept the amendment. Because it's going to be settled by a sublegal act. You said yourself, Mr. Kovacevic, if it will be resolved by a sublegal act that you agree and withdraw the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29630	We're pulling back. That's right. Well done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29631	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. HSP amendment withdrawn. Amanda's one of Alenka Kosic's protégés Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29632	The amendment is not accepted first. The application of European standards means declaring goods according to quality rather than purpose. Since we have been determined to accept European standards, we cannot accept the declaration of goods according to purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29633	Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29634	I thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, that is why I have given this amendment because of the fact that Croatian norms which as you know are still in the Croatian state in force and not European norms. They classify this unprocessed tree according to purpose and quality. That is why this amendment was given, because otherwise it will be contrary to Croatian norms. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29635	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you very much. He got one vote. Amendment 2 also honors the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29636	The amendment also cannot be accepted by the government because forest inspectors cannot carry out traffic control tasks, which is clearly prescribed by the forest law and the State Inspectorate Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29638	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, it has not been four weeks that we have voted to amend and supplement the forest laws. Inside which we've returned the forest inspectors to the Resorving Ministry. The whole story lies in the fact that forest inspectors need to do this, and that's why you should've been anticipating that proposal. I'm sorry, but here's the vote I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29639	Who is this amendment? Thank you. He got three votes. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendment of MPs to the Ledinsky Zeljko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29640	This amendment cannot be accepted because the penalties relate equally to the offenders who will carry out the classification as well as those who perform the subclassification as well as those who carry out the classifications above the actual quality. And also on those who put unprocessed wood that is not even classified under the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29641	Because there's no representative in the assembly. I am voting on this amendment. Who's in? Thanks, he got one vote. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 84 votes for and 1 abstention the law on the classification of unprocessed wood in the text was passed as proposed by the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29643	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29644	- Final proposal of the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 224 The legislator is the Government, it is an emergency procedure, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by committees on legislation, European integration, maritime, transport and communications, local and regional self-government. Please, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development Zdravko Livaković to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29645	The esteemed Mr. President, esteemed MPs, here are a few sentences regarding the Proposal of the Law on Public Roads. The adoption of a new law is envisioned by a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the European Union's 2004 regulations. The Law on Public Roads is in force, which has already been amended four times and has been significantly amended, in particular as regards public road management and public road financing and public road maintenance. The practical essence of the law remains the same and all the good provisions that have already been incorporated into it are maintained as such, and this compliance with the regulations of the European Union is reflected in one detail, which is yes, it is intended to use state roads as a source for public road financing in Croatia. Foreign vehicles, foreign trucks and buses when entering the country of Croatia based on the road compensation Regulation for a foreign motor vehicle are obliged to pay a certain amount of compensation for the use of our roads. This is regulated by this regulation, which is the consequence of the Road Traffic Act last week, which seems to me, to have been adopted on this Assembly, and thus we have achieved this harmonisation in a way that since public roads have been built, or highways with tolls will intervene in that Regulation to achieve this harmonisation. In that sense, the declaration of conformity is in addition to your material. In addition, certain improvements have been foreseen in the new law, it refers to the regulation of public road depreciation issues because the revisions in the Croatian highway companies, i.e. Croatian roads, this detail was not well arranged so that this law stipulates that the level of depreciation is no longer determined by the administrations of Croatian highways, Croatian highways and directors of the county road administrations by their own means but is authorised by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to determine the depreciation rates for certain groups of public roads. This observation will therefore be removed. This Law also introduces a new fourth category of public roads, which are highways for the fact that a significant network of highways has been built in Croatia. Therefore, it should be treated as such in this Law. The news is also to abolish the possibility of concessioning road facilities on county and local roads. The reason is next. As a rule, these roads do not have sufficient traffic to be interested in a concession for the construction of such facilities, i.e. concessions of such facilities, then condition the guarantees of local self-government, i.e. county or state in terms of the amount of traffic which will then be able to ensure that the concession is paid. However, there is another very significant reason. On the county and local roads, transport must not be limited to motor vehicles only, but it must be possible to mix traffic with speed limits on these public roads. And a user of such a public road in that case would have no alternative without charge. Further when building connections and access to the public road within the construction area of cities we have introduced, i.e. we propose to establish the previous consent of the city's headships. For what? In the absence of detailed spatial plans within the building areas, there is often a situation where the public road connection for which a local permit must be set aside, that the provisions of spatial plans are not respected, or interpreted quite extensively, so as to introduce here that the previous consent of the City Headship is sought as an exponent of the units of local self-government, in whose jurisdiction according to the Constitution are the editing of space in their own area. The necessary works of public road maintenance are also established during the strike of workers, companies managing public roads. These introduce the obligation to form, manage a single public road database at Croatian roads as one general database on all public roads. There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29646	Thank you very much. The rapporteurs of the Committee on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, local and regional self-government. I'm opening a debate. The club of IDS MPs, the respected representative Damir Cain, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29647	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. The IDS is against the fact that the built roads are mentioned here by the built roads in the concession. The highways were built by Croatian citizens and so much we believe that Croatian citizens do not deserve such an adventure because of their one-time income. Only one road in the concession has been given in Croatia so far. This is Učka-Pazin-Vodnjan road, i.e.... It was done that France's Buik, 97th in the wake of the total isolation of the Republic of Croatia, then the political leadership took place on 14 years of tunnel management of Učka, and that Buiko was also granted one-off funding from the state budget so that the mentioned shares could be built. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] I claim that these money was given to Croatian builders, we could already have the road. Fortunately, construction costs were radically reduced in 2003 and the first phase of "Bue Kanfanar" should be completed in the 5th month of this year. That this road needs not only Istria, but all of them bear witness to the fact that 40% of Croatian tourism, revenue from Croatian tourism, is realised on the road. Unfortunately, it's not a highway yet, it's just a fast road. And we pay that fast road over the average price of 27 kuna tunnel plus tomorrow with a 12, 13 bridge maybe 14 kuna on the bridge through Mirna. So the Rijeka-Zagreb road is 56 kuna, and only through the Učka tunnel is paid 27 kuna and that is clearly terrible. However, on those 56 kuna tolls from Rijerka to Zagreb where we have about 160km of highway, which you highway some 7.8km of tunnels, 22% of VAT is also paid, which will say that those who run that road remain 43, 44 kuna, and the tunnel through Učka is free of VAT. It is probably a unique case in Croatia that something has been released from VAT. Right, we have a zero VAT rate on bread or children's supplies, but this is still a unique case when relations like this happen. I claimed that and I claim that Y in Istria could have been built by the fees that... on the Ucka tunnel that was reconstructed two months ago in a way that drove through that tunnel is more like a macadamian which can be confirmed by Mr. Hrelja than driving on an asphalt road. Secondly, the question arises, what can we in Croatia ever give in a concession? We can put in a concession on the Zagreb-Rijek road. One of the conditions of crediting highway construction with the EBRD is that the Rijeka-Zagreb highway company, which manages the highway on behalf of the concessionaires of the state, will open a tender for a consulting company that would work to prepare for the conclusion of the contract on the management and maintenance of the road. I don't know if that contract was signed by Matthew or the latter government. But once again I'm going to tell IDS is against that concession. If we could build a road with our own resources, then I guess we could manage it with our own resources or our own forces. That this is better testified by Italian examples, where the maintenance of roads after being given in a concession practically gives place before the profit of concessionaires. Europe certainly has a whole series of good things. We should look up to her anyway. Her example should be followed. But that does not mean that we must grant concessions on built roads or that we must give them hunting grounds in a concession or that we give territorial waters to foreigners to carry out fishing activities in them. Speaking of which, while I'm on this river-Zagreb road, I'm guessing some company called Boss Alan Hamilton has already been chosen to analyze road management costs. Mr. Klaric read yesterday, expects a public tender in March based on a concession for the Rijeka-Zagreb stock and all this will be justified on the addition of the existing peninsula. However, I say we can do this as a country and we can do it ourselves. If we have to build for a year or two longer, but we hire a Croatian operation and start these construction mechanisms in these areas. Clearly for the Zagreb-Split road, no one is interested in the small amount of vehicles passing the same, although it was very necessary, because it connects the largest two Croatian centres. What is most interesting after the Istrian Y for concession is the Zagreb to Lipovac stock, due to the opening of clearly Serbia, etc. But it also doesn't need to be given to anyone. In one word, Croatia must take its own interest in this case, because it will be far cheaper than to give it to someone else. So it's an interest to build in that case on our own. And what can I say, trust the people of Istria who have burned themselves on that and that kind of construction, or who you have burned. But today we are where we are and we must clearly force the completion of this construction with five months this year. Article 24(2) is clear, it speaks of a public competition. So it can't happen the situation we had, trying the situation we had in the Bechtel case. We at the IDS Club support Article 27, which states that if the user wishes to enter the property before the power of the authorisation, he submits a request for entry into the territory of the competent administration in the county, etc. That's clearly normal. We must speed up the construction, we must legally indicate that road construction is a public interest. No one can prevent anyone, although I am aware that there will always be citizens who will be against any road, any waterway, power plants, gas installations, but the fact is that these communal infrastructure situations are of the widest state interest. Therefore, an individual cannot prevent the full benefit of an entire community. It is clear that an individual must be compensated in the most appropriate way if any infrastructure unit is placed on his property. That's where we have to damage him completely. We can't damage him. I also know that someone's gonna pay someone to, for example, get off the highway right next to his house, but we're gonna pay them off in an honest way. And that's the point, it's humane, it's ethical and it's finally fair. Let me just go back to that tunnel Učka i.e. The bill. If toll is charged and these mechanisms are to be installed in this law, then a replacement pass must be provided. In the Učka tunnel, this is a particularly big problem because the passage of trucks is not possible through Lovran, Opatija for Rijeka further towards Zagreb, or through Učka, but through the Učka tunnel alone, and the trucks there are first of all yelling in one unscrupulous way. This Article shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Regulation. is for highways 40 meters from one side and the other, roads intended exclusively for the transport of motor vehicles or fast road 35 meters, state roads 25 meters, county 15, local 10 meters etc. We believe that it is still too much, although the belt is clear in some part of it to be left clear, but if it's so much she needs to "authorise" what she's going to say to buy out, pay people a fair fair fee. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I think there are some powers we shouldn't be harassing the minister. Article 48 talks about the concession, I've already said a lot about it. I'm going to say one more time, we're against IDS from this kind of behavior on the built-in stock. To the end of the county road. All those roads can't always build a county. You all know what our county's budget revenues are. 200, 250, maximum 300 million kuna. There are counties that don't even make 100 million kunas of their income. I know that in those county roads they are financed separately, means in a special way. However, regardless of all these are such minimal means that you should consider that out of those 1.2 kunas how far it goes for Croatian highways or for Croatian roads one part, one third of that part, and in that part we submit the IDS Club the amendment goes for county roads. Finally, the roads are also "condicio sine qua non" of Croatian development and hence county development. However, the essence of this law is certainly Article 64, together with Article 48 on concessions, which is that in due course it will continue to be allocated per litre of gasoline of 0,60 lipa for Croatian highways and 0,60 lipa for Croatian roads d.o.o. I believe that out of these kunas and 20 limes, one amount should go for the county roads from Istrian to Dubrovnik, Osijek and so on. I agree that with these kunas and 20 limes a lot was done when the roads were in the Republic of Croatia. This should also be welcomed and so much compensation should be maintained regardless of what everyone will agree that it is a detachment from the kuna and 20 liras impact on the standard of Croatian citizens mainly at a time when oil derivatives are savaged on the world market. But without that "smack" there wouldn't be a road. They would not be clear without international credits, and I believe that the fee should be maintained and the level of the price of gasoline adjusted by excise duties. However, excise tax revenues are also tax revenues, not small, so if you give something up, then on the other hand, you clearly miss it. For the end, just one line about blue diesel. This diesel is free of this fee to call it kuna and 20 limes, however, it is necessary to introduce order on the blue diesel market because it is impossible to spend nearly 100 million tonnes of blue diesel in the Republic of Croatia per year for tractors or boats, fishing vessels. If that were the case, I would hold it so that no inch of Croatia would be unprocessed. So, the blue diesel is spent, but mostly in construction, and that's where the order should be introduced. If there is control of the prices of blue diesel it could be much less and the price of blue diesel at this point becomes a condition I will say the survival of boaters or small fishermen on the one hand and our farmers and in this area if a little order introduces this new Income Act then we will all be able to say that there has been progress. All in all, we propose that the proposer of this legislative proposal accept that 1.2 kuna funds are shared not only between Croatian highways and Croatian roads but also on the county roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29648	Thank you. The SDP club is a respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić and Miroslav Korenik. Zvonimir Mršić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29649	Dear President, Secretary of State, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! I must express my regret that this law has come out of the ministry whose head is the former mayor. Why? Because this is a typical anti-city law. This is a law that practically imposes new obligations on cities and municipalities and does not give them any income. Moreover, all revenues resulting from the use of the facilities, in this case public roads, go to the county and the Croatian roads, or to the state budget. We can see that by sorting public roads. Public roads are classified on highways, state roads, county roads and local roads. I'm now asking what's wrong with the unclassified roads. Unclassified roads to remind you are city roads. In every city and municipality, you have about a third of the city's roads. Are the city roads public roads, or are the roads public? Is this Law, for example, in line with the Road Safety Act? Can traffic take place on unclassified roads? And what kind of traffic? What's the standard on unclassified roads? Who will maintain from what fee unclassified roads? So that's all the questions. Unfortunately, this Law does not speak of at least a third of the roads in the Republic of Croatia. It would be good to have given us miles to see how many Croatian highways we have, how many Croatian state roads we have, how many county roads we have, how many local roads and especially how many unclassified roads we have. But not only do cities and municipalities not receive revenue from the basis of the use of roads and these public roads, but even more are imposed on cities and municipalities by certain special, special obligations that relate to these very public roads. So you will see in Article 17 that if the construction of the roads has to be built through the settlement, you must build a communal, water supply, energy and other building, then it must be financed by the local self-government unit. And today you have a situation where when you reconstruct and build a county or a state road that you have to do public lighting that lights up that road but that financing and building and public lighting must go from a city budget or municipal budget without talking about the city's municipal budget being charged, must pay for maintenance, public lighting and electricity for that public lighting. Furthermore, Article 19 provides for further commitments to municipalities and cities such as maintenance of a system for disposal, public lighting, maintenance of green areas, pedestrians, cycling trails and imagine cleaning public roads. So municipalities and cities are ordered to clean state, county and local, local roads. Those driving these roads pay everything, based on the use of these roads in the state budget, the county budget, i.e. in the budget of the Croatian Roads. So here it is obvious that some obligations are being re-imposed or continued, part of the obligations existed before and part of them is being imposed that are entirely with the opposites of the Charter of Local Self-Government, the autonomy of local self-government and the strengthening of the fiscal capacity of local self-government units, or the possibility that they solve all the problems and needs that citizens of a single unit of local self-government have. On the other hand, when you look at it, cities must maintain, for example, green areas along public roads and this Law defines the width of that belt. So you have the width of that belt is 40-10 meters or 10-40 meters. And now you're in a situation where a city has to pay for the maintenance of the green area, for example along the state road where the belt is 25 meters, it can't even be in line with this Law, but it must therefore maintain a green area but, for example, later on, Croatia's roads will arrive for the use of this land. Or compensation for using the land belt along the county road will be received by the County Road Administration. But, of course, the city must pay for public lighting and maintenance of green areas and build a sewerage system for surface drains. And now the question arises whether the city must pay for and clean up the water that is collected on that road and whether someone has tried to calculate how much money it will take to clean those waters. Furthermore, a whole series of powers are given to the minister, such as, for example, the power to prescribe conditions for bus stops. Again, the question arises whether the bus stop can be built on an undivided road that essentially does not exist. But I wonder if the minister prescribes rules for bus stops, why not prescribe rules for a rotor? Because at this point in Croatia you can only build a rotor in the maximum dimension so that it can be surrounded by an ankle bus or a pike, the longest boot, a truck with a trailer. So you won't get the consent to build some small, smaller rotor. The width of the belt around public roads leads to the fact that cities and municipalities will have to pay service land for building facilities for public purposes such as public lighting, such as sewerage, such as bus stops, such as walking cycling routes. I don't see any reason why if we get the Law on the Safety of Road Traffic, the state doesn't commit to building a walking bike path and public lighting along the state road through the settlement. It will be the biggest contribution to the safety of traffic on that road through the settlement, not that we prescribe significantly bigger, significantly bigger penalties. And finally, here we have sources of funding, sources of resources, they're 10, respectively... It's 11. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think if this law goes through like this, and unfortunately it will pass, that it should certainly in the Law on the Communist Economy foresees the possibility for cities and municipalities to charge communal compensation on public roads and to finance from these communal fees all of what this Law again imposes as an obligation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29650	And Miroslav Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29651	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I must say that when we talk about this law, this section that is related to local and part regional self-government was spoken by counterpart Mršić. However, when public roads are sorted, that is not the only problem. The problem is, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are giving the possibility that certain shares of state roads that we have experienced by building highways are simply declared by the minister's act on the county roads without unfortunately being brought into the state they were before the highway started. It is not just the case in northwestern Croatia, unfortunately this is the case in all areas of the Republic of Croatia where highways were built. A good part of the state roads, especially the lower categories of county and local ones, is in extremely poor condition and today, we do not know and have not taken over either Croatian highways or Croatian highways other than paper contracts, implementation and bringing these local roads into the original state. This does not mean that this condition was good, however, it certainly needs to be fixed. That's why I'm asking that we get too much of an explanation about it. What I think is good, however, is the reintroduction of a transport project because when we were in the Croatian Road Safety Council in 2002, we had an analysis of certain sections of the D-1 road from Zagreb to Split, unfortunately, traffic signs were not signs that alerted drivers, but unfortunately brought drivers into error and often traffic signs were the cause of traffic accidents. What I think is good is that there is a strategy for the development of public roads. However, the fact that we still do not have a new public road development strategy is not the reason that this time the government has not gone public with a public road construction and maintenance programme. It was under the obligation especially that at the end of this year and the plan and programme of building and maintaining public roads in the Republic of Croatia for the past four years no longer apply. Dear ladies and gentlemen, what will be built, what will be reconstructed in the Republic of Croatia? Will this depend on individuals, political ties, or on the public document we will have? It seems to me that part of it goes with this law and this strategy is precisely that at this moment because of various interests, you wouldn't know the road construction and maintenance program. Maybe it's the influence of the lobby, I don't know, but it would be good if we got too much of an explanation about it. In Article 24, paragraph 6 is also the deadline to be given after a public tender for obtaining a concession for public road maintenance is an inappropriately respected colleague and colleague. In order to maintain certain road, winter service and everything else, one who goes to a concession tender must invest significant material resources in order to adequately maintain it. For four years, unfortunately, it's not long enough to depreciate all the funds, all the material assets that are being invested, and I'm afraid we're going to have a weaker level of road maintenance standards. The past government with the previous parliamentary majority had a vision and was moving towards a very intense construction of both highways, building new state roads. Let's think of miles of highways that have been opening this year. Let's remember the state roads and numerous bypasses of our larger cities that end. But that's exactly why we're getting into trouble. The road is public good and we are aware that the road as such cannot be privatised. We are for concessions and concessions when a highway is started or some state road, meaning that the concession is to be managed and managed by someone who will invest, who will build and then a certain period of time. The Croatian state, as we have heard in recent years, has been borrowing through its companies to build highways to build roads in general in the Republic of Croatia. If so, it is now how to go and give management of such roads that should become the golden coke of this country to be managed by someone else. Consider the example when a concession was introduced on the Zagorje highway to come by a foreign concessionaire and manage and charge toll. After that, we suddenly have extra employees. There was also a battle over how much the salaries of these employees should be, and just as Croatian citizens have been giving up for years to build roads. Let's not forget, we're a generation, and a past and present assembly of parliaments that made historical decisions about the road being built. But let us not forget that for decades before, Croatian citizens knew the importance of the Adriatic coast and the importance of all roads that should lead towards it, that the money for road construction was being allocated. Also, if Croatian citizens are now building highways through their companies owned by the government, it does not make sense to give some other management concessions because it can certainly be done by Croatian companies on equal terms. I have several other observations also at the level of road maintenance standards in Croatia. Over the past years, this level has been raised. But I'm afraid since we don't have this road construction and reconstruction program, we don't know how much money will be spent on these purposes. The fact is, from the conversations we have on the ground, that the level especially on state roads, quality and or level of standards declines. That's not the point with us. Therefore, in an article that speaks, in Article 65 which speaks and on the allocation of funds collected for road maintenance, the county road administrations often remain suspended because some of the county road administrations have raised that level by additional resources from the county budgets. And we are aware that we must also have a certain level of solidarity. However, it should be made clear what the criteria are and on the subject when and when and what the criteria will be when that money is distributed, so that we do not have political decisions breaking into the head of some counties. As a good solution, I would like to point out that in the case of extradition, it is possible to get into possession earlier, especially since we have important public roads, for example, city bypasses, a large number of parcels that may not be built for years if we do not have such an institute. What I don't think is just as well solved is inspection surveillance. What's this about? And now on the Croatian roads and the great devastation of Croatian roads that I was already talking about occurred when the highway was built or some major state roads. There is then a great burden on these local roads where due to insufficient surveillance both the police and the inspections have come to the fact that overloaded trucks are driven by Croatian roads. With strong winters, these roads are not prepared for such burdens, they are destroyed. In this article, Article 73, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the inspection, it is not said that inspectors also have those competences specifically related to Article 31, paragraph 1 means where the load of trucks or vehicles going on Croatian roads is spoken of. It should give clear authority that the traffic inspector has the possibility and that, periodically, on all Croatian roads, such surveillance should be maintained. I must also say about the privatisation referred to in Article 76. It is still unclear to me that the government is not in its own measures that it can always implement through supervision and everything else has forced counties that have not privatised road companies to do so. The delay after the delay won't be a good solution, and I hope it's finally done. Finally, this law has, we have a lot of objections regarding this law, but the SDP Club can provide support with all these remarks that we have made and that we expect to get too many answers but because the quorum is faked when voting on the mistrust of Minister Zuzul, members of the SDP Club will not take part in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29652	The quorum wasn't faked and leave it alone. You need to be present, so you can determine something then. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadic on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Union's Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29653	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The main objectives of the long-term development of public roads are defined by the 1999 transport development strategy, and of course the government brings forward a four-year maintenance and construction plan. As already said, 4 laws included this matter, or one law, but additions and amendments, and this was indeed necessary to unite into one law and also to comply with the European Union. The HDZ Club has several objections and one question, so I will bring them out here and there will be one amendment. In principle, we support that tolls can only be charged on highways and individual buildings on a state road such as a bridge or a tunnel. But here I have analyzed this whole law a little bit more, and I still don't know what to say at the end, in case the County Assembly has already given some concession, like in Split's Dalmatian County, the Biokovo tunnel, here in transitional and final provisions, says that the process will end in the beginning of the actions according to what it means to be a new law. If that's two-way clear then fine, then I have no objection that there would be no confusion about it afterwards. But I'm saying we basically support this solution. The other thing is that what was given to the Committee on Maritime Transport and Links one amendment refers to the County Road Administrations, I was the initiator of that amendment. In fact, we also believe that the HDWC Club is of the opinion that the county road administrations should have administrative councils. Because it really doesn't make sense that almost all institutions may have too few employees of the Neamju but almost all institutions of kindergarten have administrative councils. And that the county of the road management that has large funds and in almost all counties, these funds that the county road administrations have are bigger than the original county budget, not counting decentralisation funds, and it is really necessary that the director be elected by the county assembly, but we have made an amendment to make it on the proposal of the board of directors. Which implies that the administrative council must be introduced into the county road administration. So far, some have reportedly introduced some of them, some of them dared not and moved on. That should be defined. Because since the County Assembly can control the spending of big money, you know that by yourself. And since the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships has given the amendment the same support for the HD Club, then there is no need to make a special amendment to its amendment. Unless it's a clear enough amendment. And I have another observation here I have given the amendment on behalf of HDFor this story Mršić spoke on Article 17. We have also noticed the same article 17. dA cost of project construction and construction as referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, borne by the investor of municipal water and other buildings. Indeed, a great burden would fall on the cities and municipalities of me, and then I, too, have been the amendment to add "except public surfaces, walking sauces and green areas and public lighting" and then continues. Which would mean reducing investor costs in case of municipalities and cities. And also the cost reduction in project design and construction. Here's a thank you very much, and in fact, the law is good and I support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29654	Thank you. The club of representatives of the HSS, the esteemed representative of Željko Pecek, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29655	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. We here have a new law actually that united everything that happened back four years through existing amendments to the law. However, I am afraid that it continues to allow for the continuation of this old bad practice that is happening to us, most likely to continue the construction of the highway towards Dubrovnik where obviously this law enables the opening of the tender without having a project documentation. I'm asking you what would happen if you acted similarly in the construction of local roads of a city or a municipality or God forbid a craftsman starts building something without having a project documentation or building permit. That's the part of the story that's sure to keep happening. This bad solution and bad practice will not prevent this Law because it obviously does not have the ambition to prevent it. We didn't exactly formulate the procedure or the procedure. Likewise, when we talk about a competition to continue the construction of the highway, in the south, the opportunities are for the submissions to be made for three shares each separately, however it is possible to make an offer and a total. What's gonna happen here? Which Croatian company can obtain a bank guarantee to build a complete highway towards Dubrovnik. I estimate none, there will be already a famous story that is here for the lobbying, the job will be obtained by the company from outside and our domestic Croatian companies will be co-operatives will be second-hand. Of course, the job that will be paid for them will be reduced by 10 to 20% due to the engineering services they will take without actually doing anything by her company out of the outside that probably already has. This law will continue to allow us to have a development strategy adopted by the Croatian Parliament, it will also allow the government to adopt a four-year construction plan for the four-year construction plan. At first glance, it's perfectly logical and we should all support it, if we don't have that bad practice going on behind it again. Because annual implementation plans are submitted to the entities, which means bringing the Croatian highway and the Croatian road. We recently adopted here in the Croatian Parliament the state budget of course that annual plans we did not get. So neither we here nor the local residents of Slavonia, Dalmatia, Podravina know what kind of an annual flax is for next year adopted here in parliament. It happens to us that by some strange priority and that he was never mentioned here, he comes to the first place on the Peljesac Bridge. We see a certain Russian ship coming to question the seabed, we see the prime minister on that Russian ship and that this project gets priority over Corridor 5C which is actually the only more important serious project in Slovenia is unknown how it comes. It would be interesting to open a debate here in the Assembly, and I think it's necessary to define priorities. Because the priority given in drawing up the credentials actually further determines the dynamics of the building code. It's perfectly clear if we project the Peljesac Bridge. And we're not delivering corridor 5C, we're not going to have any bases and we know what's going to happen sooner. Also for some strange reasons for the projections of the four-year periods of course and the period of the following year, the fast roads that Zagreb should have connected with Podravina, northern Croatia, with the complete Slavonia, are gone, are no longer mentioned. We put them in another plan, and we actually put the entire area and those citizens in the second row. We live 100 km from Zagreb at a distance, in Podravina and in Slavonia, however, if we want to respect the changes of signs using existing directions to Zagreb, we need 2 and a half hours and some times even three hours. This situation should be changed, I think that all regions in the Republic deserve a very high-quality transport connection and I would not like to elaborate here how important it is for the development of these parts. It is known where the highway passes, or a quality fast road that the value in real estate grows two to three times. It is known that the interest of investors is growing significantly, that employment is taking place, and that employment is finally only happening in the construction of buildings without talking about anything else. Here and through a strategy through the four-year progharm that the government brings, as well as through the annual programme, we need to see how we have areas in Croatia that are not traffic-free. I'm saying, and I'd like to be reassured here that the entire area of Koprivnica, Bjelovar, Virovitica and to Vukovar has been left out of traffic. The only thing that is said in construction, quality construction is Corridor PC, however, since next year, and in the next year since construction there is nothing. In fact, it also defines the model of funding that we find here in this Law. We know when we build highways, we took foreign loans, we pay everyone in Croatia for oil products, and these are the main sources from which we build highways. However, now is the time, since highways in the good part have been built and since we know the plan for the next two to three years, how we will finish this job, to think about other traffic corridors in Croatia as well. I am deeply convinced that the revenues we make from the highways and the revenues we make from the compensation for oil products should be rerouted to other traffic routes and should be rerouted towards local self-government because apparently the county, cities and municipalities do not have enough resources to finance local projects. So it wouldn't be difficult for us here in the Parliament to think at least that the fee for oil derivatives is being rerouted not to go directly to the giro account of highways, or Croatian roads, but to continue to go in one section to build highways. And in the second section, for other directions that don't exactly have the meaning of highways. Of course, there is something we must say about this law on oil derivatives prices because it is directly maintained on them. We have a $1.20 fee and we have overpriced oil derivatives in Croatia. It's completely inexplicable why the blue diesel used by farmers and fishermen is as expensive as the vine oil, without being burdened with this mandatory road construction. This should be changed because, over a long period of time, oil prices on the foreign market are not expected to fall more seriously and may exist through this Law. In principle, I believe that here the minister has too much authority in this Act, and even several times and needlessly solves some details of one traffic sign where the minister defines where we're going to put traffic signs. I think it's about time we put the waist on. It's not the ministry's job, it's not the police's job, it's the job of traffic-skillers who should be involved in solving this problem, not that traffic signs serve us to punish drivers if they exceed the speed often and ridiculously limited in some area. I would also like the minister to know how to handle certain areas that have become transport corridors for transport, especially foreign trucks. The best example is that in Podravna where the Podravska highway is completely destroyed, where the track signs are actually traffic signs every two, three kilometers. We had a decision by the minister in the form of a regulation to ban traffic for foreign trucks on the Podrav highway, but after three weeks we still see that trucks still appear there are destroying the road, of course, which has to be financed locally. We would also like to see these solutions that would also activate investments in areas other than the south of Zagreb, especially in the northern corridor, which is completely neglected through the strategy, through operational plans, and if we will have this law that will directly send all the money to Zagreb and then possibly crumbs down the county and the cities, we will have this situation further. I think we should change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29656	Thank you. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29657	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Well, here's just a few words more from the local self-government point of view. In fact, we notice that a number of roads in local self-government are county roads. The problem is parallel roads, we see this all over Croatia, because parallel roads should be parallel to highways, they should still be owned by Croatian roads, and often they are strange properties. Here, I'll give an example of a parallel road, it's a parallel road with the road Zagreb – Bregana, it's the old concrete road that's not only different from, I don't know, 6 km from Franjo Tuđman and Svetonedelijska pa the City of Virges but it's a strange property. From Posei Bridge to traffic lights it is owned by Croatian roads. From the traffic lights in St. Sunday to the bottom somewhere in front of Samobor property, i.e. the reverse county, then Croatian, then the county and Croatian. Four times changes, four times, four different owners on 13 kilometers of road. It's a maintenance problem, and I think it should be dealt with really urgently. Not keeping county roads is from really not having enough money. I was in the county headship for four years, so I saw how much money there was, and that's where it should come from, in my opinion, to redistribution after all. And that's why I'm a little bit weird about this article that's going on, he's actually I'm thinking from the last one, that's Article 65(3). "the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall be deployed by the Minister at the proposal of the Croatian Roads d.o.o.". So now, what's weird? Namely, Croatian roads receive 0.6 kuna per litre of fuel, right? The money in some proportions should also be divided into county roads. It is normal for Croatian roads to give the largest part, if they make a proposal to the minister, how much of the county roads they will get, then no wonder that the county roads will get too little. The problem is the infrastructure on Croatian roads. Here, on this very part of us, in St. Sunday, an industrial zone, it's amazing how hard it is to get on the road. When we wanted to build traffic lights there, then we got "no, that's our job, that's what we're going to do" from the Croatian roads, two years ago to today I don't think there are any projects. So you either have to transfer the obligations to local self-government or do what was actually promised. Then, the problem is maintenance overpasses. I still don't know, here's our workers going through, on the highway to cut their way around the overpass because apparently the overpasses don't need to, on the highway I'm talking about, not keep the highway, but local self-government, and that's the illogicality that needs to be solved anyway. The problem of exorcism, it's extremely difficult for the local self-government to do anything for the road, it's been going on for years. Croatian highways can do that, so we would like to at least somehow if we had the right to do something faster because otherwise some roads are extremely useful and will not be needed for years. The problem of bypasses, you really need around some cities, you need bypasses. Here's an example of Virovitica, it's really very necessary because there's no more going through the city, and actually there's land, there's a possibility that it's easy to do so, so it should do something more. And finally, in an interesting relationship, I say local self-government and Croatian roads are because the obligations of local self-government are great. That's what we discussed on the board today, not to repeat it, and local self-government has no right to infrastructure. And then surveillance, the last is that not longer, supervision, is interesting to control the Croatian roads, whatever we are doing near Croatian roads there is a moment of inspection, which others do not see if it is done by some private or something else allows themselves whatever they want, the surveillance is very important. I hope that changes, too. And one illogicality. If I'm doing something in the road hull, local self-government for the sake of municipal infrastructure, we still have to pay for it. At the same time, everything we do for Croatian roads is without compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29658	Dear Representative Ivan Vukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29659	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, gentlemen and Madam Representatives. This is another law by which the Croatian Government implements its plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with EU legislation, the acquiss of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The Law on Public Roads so far was passed in 96 and has suffered four changes so far. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads "National Journal" 27/2001. A new way of managing public roads is prescribed, according to which the current legal person for the management of state roads Croatian Road Management is formed by the Government decision in two Croatian highway companies and Croatian Roads. Management of county and local roads remains in the jurisdiction of the county road administrations, institutions owned by the county. From 1 January 2002, compensation for the financing, maintenance and construction of public roads is paid at the expense of the Croatian highways and at the expense of the Croatian roads from a litre of sold fuel. The existing public road law has proved necessary to amend or supplement existing solutions such as the issue of compensation for financing, construction and maintenance and depreciation. The legal position of public roads is regulated as a general good on which no right of ownership or other real rights can be acquired on any basis. The necessary maintenance work shall be regulated during the strike of employees, etc. It is prescribed that the compensation from maintenance, construction of public roads paid at the expense of Croatian roads and Croatian highways is not the income of these companies but represents the public capital to which the state finances the construction of public roads. The proposed law incorporated Directive 199 62 of the European Parliament from 17 June 90 on compensation for heavy goods vehicles and buses for certain infrastructures. This alignment with the European Union directives is also an opportunity for the proposer to amend and adapt the existing law to today's opportunities which he has done. The law regulates the status of public roads, parts of public roads, classification of roads on highways, state roads, county roads, local roads. I would also wonder where the unclassified roads are, whether they are public roads or public areas, as counterpart Mršić said. Introducing toll collection and public roads. Article 17 of the proposed law regulates the construction of other buildings within roadland. Article 1 states that if the construction or reconstruction of a public road provides for the construction of municipal, water-economic, energy or other buildings within the roadland, the project must also cover these works below or above the road surface. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These are 90% of local self-government units or companies owned by local self-government units. Paragraph 4 of the same article regulates if the construction or restructuring of the public road is blocked into the municipal, water-economic, energy or other building costs of the project and the construction is carried out by the investor at the time, and these are then Croatian roads or county road administrations, and applies if these infrastructure facilities are already installed within the hull of the road. I quoted this article because in practice, there were many problems with the non-compliance of such businesses. Often, units of local self-government do not know what companies who manage public roads or vice versa are up to. We therefore think it would be good to exchange plans in time to access documents and funds in a timely manner. Article 19 of that Law regulates the maintenance of public roads through a settlement. Article 19 states: "The part of the public road passing through the settlement is being held as a systematic, component of the road and public road except for the disposal system if it is part of the local sewerage network, public lighting, green area, the guide and the overseer in the function of pedestrian traffic, cycling and hiking routes, tramways or railway lines. Cleaning public roads except for cleaning snow. I suggest adding "except for the highway with its own power supply system and their access roads" which is now in practice and is not in the law, is not built in Croatia because many highways and access roads have been built in Croatia and public lighting is on them, and with this law comes to the point that maintenance of this public lighting has fallen and the payment and consumption of electricity fell to local self-government units. It would also be good to regulate the 1st indent as well. The disposal system, if it's part of the local sewerage network, I suggest it stands out: "the mixed system of disposal of the interested party will be resolved by agreement". We're not so rich yet that on the state roads we're working on a special system for deforestation, and a special system for the disposal of fecal waters. In most cases, therefore, a common disposal system is done in 90% of the cases, so I believe that units of local self-government and companies operating on that road should be involved in the construction and maintenance of these roads. And finally, let me consider this law to be an improvement in public road maintenance. I hope that the proposer will respect some of the proposals and opinions of the MPs and, as such, I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29660	Thank you very much. I am reporting that at 11 and 29, it is time for a single application to discuss this item of the agenda. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29661	I thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I am very pleased that today we finally have a quality law ahead of us that we have long been expecting for a long time. The changes and additions could not meet the needs of this resistor. We know from the alterations and additions that he's been in the past few years. The law is very well-conceived, quality defined terms. In particular, I would stress that it is good to limit the grant of concessions to the right to build and manage only highways and certain road facilities on the state road and not to the possibility of giving in concessions of other roads because it would make it impossible for an alternative non-refundable direction, which is necessary when one highway is built. It is true that colleagues in their previous discussions pointed out that the law does not advocate decentralisation and explicits in Article 62 of point 10. defines that the purpose of the funds of the Croatian road d.o.o. they recognise the county road administrations according to the annual plans for construction and maintenance of county and local roads on which consent is given by the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development. It is expected that decentralised funds will be more free and according to the county's personal needs and deployed. It is lacking in the law that it does not provide for the Administrative Council of the County Road Administrations. Clearly, the County Road Administration will be run by the director. However, as far as large funds are concerned, it is necessary to establish the administrative councils as one of the more powerful mechanisms of control. It is also very important that the provisions of Article 26 which stipulate that the construction of reconstruction and maintenance of public roads are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, which means that in favour of the Republic of Croatia or the County for the sake of construction, reconstructions of public roads can be made out of their own property owned by other legal persons and natural persons by the provisions of Articles 26 and 27 of this Act. These provisions of the Law on Exclusion and, depending on the needs of complete expropriation, means a service or incomplete expropriation, means a lease or temporary possession in the case of accommodation of equipment, materials, etc. This year, cca 200 million kuna remains in Zagreb, precisely because of the inability to solve property transactions on roads and roads of county nature. For the inability to expropriate on this key, according to this article that you have introduced here. For example, the city of Zagreb today does not have its Department of Roads, but the business of roads is done by several entities, from the City Office for the Construction of the City, City Office for Spatial Planning and Transport, but also by the company Zagrebačka cesta d.o.o. which often performs tasks that are not at all in the jurisdiction of this company. Of course, this is a matter which is in the jurisdiction of administrative oversight, and is now being carried out by the Ministry of Transport. This is also my request for such administrative supervision. I therefore make an obligation under Article 61, where the administrative body of the city of Zagreb is, on the basis of the decision of the City Headship for County and Local Roads in the City of Zagreb, to carry out the works of construction and reconstruction referred to in Article 14, i.e. Article 18 or Article 22 of this Act. If an act establishing the administrative body of the city of Zagreb must provide such a structure that will enable the construction, reconstruction and maintenance of the county locals in the area of the city of Zagreb, which are prescribed by this Law for public roads. I thank the proposer and I think that this law will at least reflect the functioning of the Road Administration in the city of Zagreb will have good and positive shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29662	Thank you. And the esteemed representative of Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29663	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In my debate, I must point out once again the lack of this Law, this was spoken by my colleague Mršić on behalf of the Club, but it is indeed a great disadvantage that we do not have unclassified roads. This especially applies to those of our counties that have a large network primarily of local roads, but then a large number of unclassified roads and we come up with big problems with the financing of such roads on one side. But also in a way of coordinating between the county administrations and those small municipalities that just have a large number of such roads. What do you do with them, how do you keep them and everything? Perhaps the proposer will settle it by some other law, I would like to get very clear and accurate information on this matter. Perhaps a few more sentences on Article 60. Obviously, the promoter or those who have worked on the text of the Law do not know enough about the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, because they say that the County Law should be governed by the Director, which is not disputed, appointed and resolved by the Mayor's County Assembly. Honorable gentlemen, the mayor is a primus inter paras first among the equal in the County Headship cannot be his decision or may be a proposal from the County Headship or, as we have an amendment, or a proposal for an amendment from the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, that it may possibly be the Administrative Council. But that's what the Governing Council reports annually, first of all, to the Headship, then to the Assembly about its work and work. Therefore, be precise and clear, we must agree, and I am sorry that this is the kind of statement that has been missed, because it clearly shows that no other laws have been taken care of. One more thing I want to warn you about. Northwest Croatia is unfortunately, it is a good thing that the construction and reconstructed state roads are some, it is good that highways are built. However, again, I am warning the criteria for the allocation of funds to the county road administrations in what way will they be implemented? I am afraid of volunteering, because this very continental part of Croatia has a larger and better quality network of roads, where, often in earlier periods, self-deliveries now and credit duties build and reconstruct roads. They are destroyed, we don't know today, I would ask perhaps a representative of the Government has clear proposals when all those roads that have been destroyed will be restored or poorer quality because Croatian highways and Croatian highways have not fulfilled their obligations to this day. Winter's coming, and if we go by the rules of conduct, the traffic inspectors should close down certain shares of you. And today despite the orderly traffic signs we have in the area of the Varazdin County transport of cargo where it goes with trucks that are overloaded, it goes to the local roads that are being destroyed. I don't see in this Law how this Law will help, and it means that there is an accelerated restoration of such roads, and who will eventually be and suffer for what is happening? I don't get it. Is that what the inspector in charge of traffic or the police are gonna do or are they gonna work together? I've already spoken on behalf of the club and about the loaded trucks, because here we don't know when and in what way the inspector is going to do it. What I have already pointed out is that it is good, it is the reintroduction of a transport project. However, I would like to ask that part of the Board that it is obvious that there should be some new traffic signs in Croatia very quickly. Life brings a need for more and more light signals. We had here as a test in the area of the city of Varazdin set up a traffic sign that warned that it was facing a cross-section with a railway line that was flickering. It was asked almost 2 years ago to see the possibility of putting the law as normal, because if we put special protection on such crosses it costs a few hundred thousand euros, this was about a traffic sign that cost me about 30 thousand kuna. However, simply because the administration responsible for that part of the Ministry of Transport has not done anything for two years and of course the inspector has ordered that such a traffic sign be removed. Clearly, then, we need to do several jobs in parallel. I would also like to get explanations about these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29664	Thank you. State Secretary, Zdravko Livaković final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29665	Obviously, this Law on Public Roads, or roads, is very interesting, so I'd like to try it this way if I could just do it for a little while. A esteemed representative of Kajin in respect of the concession, i.e. the concession chapter, is authorised by this Act, i.e. a direct concession contract is prohibited, but is prescribed only by a public tender. We can't exclude the concession as a concession from the law, because it's a normal form of road management. But this Law provides for only a public competition, not as it is in the current legal solution, whether it is possible to go through a direct contract. In the case of revenues compared to the county road administrations, it was said that Article 65 is intended to be distributed to the county road administrations according to the criteria set out in the law, which is otherwise regulated by a specific regulation which has already been passed under this law in the past period. Otherwise, the amount of these funds is about 10 to 12% of the total revenue collected from the amount of 0.6 kuna to be paid at the expense of the Croatian Roads. Mr Mršić found that it was anti-urban law, however, all that applies to unclassified roads and other municipal infrastructure is defined by the Law on the municipal economy where it is prescribed that non-classified roads, public lighting and everything else is defined in the same law and the maintenance of municipal infrastructure so that we think that there is compliance between these two laws, except in this detail that colleagues indicated when building the road through the settlement there is a question of pedestrian footing and public lighting that significantly affects traffic safety and in this sense we will consider these amendments that were given there. The powers of the minister of bus positions have long been regulated by the special Regulation on the bus stop since 97, which, I think in the introduction, I said that the Law on Public Roads is valid, there are quite good solutions in many works so that most of these remarks actually refer to the already applicable legal norms. I'm not saying you don't need to improve them if you can. Mr. Korenik insists on bringing the road into its original state for excessive use of the road. The fact is that the state, county, local roads in extremely poor condition are long ago, not only the consequences of these works carried out during the construction of the highways, there is a special regulation for this, and there is a Croatian roadside administration or county road administrations based on a special regulation to establish the obligation for those who used the road excessively to return it to its original state and in this sense Croatian highways have signed a series of contracts with county road administrations after the construction of highways to return to their original state and these contracts, as far as I know, are being consumed and built, and it is normal that it was necessary to first complete the highway to then be repaired and not before that. As regards the public road construction and maintenance programme, the same provision has been taken over, as in the past law, that public road construction and maintenance programmes for the four-year period will be carried over by the government and the government will deliver these plans by the end of the year. As far as it is concerned, there have been a number of representatives related to the administrative council of the County Road Administrations, it is certainly a deadly legal solution and in this sense we will also be manifested. In that sense, Mr. Nenadić is also a board of directors, and I said public lighting in the previous and existing concession it has already been days, the contract has been signed. So, she's in effect. Mr. Pacek commented or said that the project documentation for Dupolje-Ploče does not exist, however, it exists, it is created at a level that is precisely suited to this kind of work, the realization of work and standards as applied in the world and applied because, I will only specify an example, if for example a bridge or tunnel works at the level of the main project then a complete technology must be defined. It's tunnels, it's specified, whether it's a port bridge, whether it's beamy, etc. just by bidding the pre-defined technology can be suitable for one of the performers. The Public Procurement Act prohibits discrimination against anyone in this process and we have witnessed that the construction of highways has just been required to redesign and modify construction permits for this reason, so that the project documentation exists and will be available as such by tomorrow to all possible bidders. As for guarantees for access to this offer guarantee business will be 1% of the value of each share, it is precisely adapted to the traffic and credit potential of our contractors, so that it will not be any discriminatory factor compared to them. As far as the minister's powers are concerned, they are exactly the same as they already had, and in this regard we have only transferred them. As regards exposures to unclassified roads, this is regulated by the Law on the municipal economy where one article is established and prioritised public interest in unclassified roads. Perhaps certain improvements could be made in the Construction Act to allow for the possibility of issuing a building permit without the end of the property relations being resolved because it is so for public roads and for a non-classified one and I think that would be a major advance in solving property problems within cities where the situations are generally much more complex than they are outside the settlements. Mr. Lucic, related to construction and maintenance. This is all regulated by the Law on the Communist Economy and this is the only detail Mr. Nenadic has said that we will seriously consider it. Mrs. Chicic-Shain's administrative council, I've already commented on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29666	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on Public Roads, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 224. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a plate of amendments. State Secretary Zdravko Livaković. Here you go. Amendment 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29668	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29669	Accepted, becoming an integral part of the law. 2 also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29670	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29671	It becomes an integral part of the law. 3 MPs, Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29672	It's unacceptable. Explanation. The implementation of building permits for the construction of municipal water, energy and other buildings in accordance with spatial plans of the administrative procedure conducted by the investor in front of the competent Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction in accordance with spatial plans. The proposed paragraph 1 of Article 17 has been established by the applicant in the process of constructing a public road reconstruction provided that the construction of municipal, water supply, energy and other buildings is envisaged in accordance with the building permit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29673	Dear Representative Rosic is not present. We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Four representatives of Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29674	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29675	It becomes an integral part of the law. 5 MPs, Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29676	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment does not accept that the business of correcting the imbalances and bringing in spills, slopholes, the cover of the audit shafts is in a plane with a stake of operations carried out in the framework of the regular maintenance of the public road, in the event that they are at risk of traffic safety and therefore do not need to prescribe a time limit for the execution of those transactions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29677	Thank you. There's no representative, we have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 6 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29678	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29679	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29680	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29681	It's part of the law. Eight of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29682	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29683	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9 also the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29684	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29685	It becomes an integral part of the law. 10 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29686	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29687	It's part of the law. 11 committees of the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29688	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29689	It's part of the law. 12 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29690	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29691	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13 Maritime, Transport and Communications Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29692	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29693	It becomes an integral part of the law. 14 representatives of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29694	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment does not accept it because it is the same in practice in view of the fact that there are 20 county road administrations and the proposed does not show whether these 0,20 kuna apply to each individual county road administration or that amount would be paid to the single account of all the county road administrations. For the purposes of this The draft of the Law on Public Roads, the final proposal found that funds for maintenance, reconstruction and construction of county and local roads are provided partly from the financing, construction and maintenance of public roads under a programme of construction and maintenance, which, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, is brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia for a period of four years. The insurance funds for the county road administrations shall be deployed by the minister at the proposal of the Croatian Roads d.o.o.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29695	Thank you. There's no representative, we have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 15 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29696	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29697	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29698	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29699	It becomes an integral part of the law. 17 of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29700	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29701	It becomes an integral part of the law. 18 MPs, Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29702	It's unacceptable. The proposed amendment, which provides for the erasure of fines of between 20 thousand and 50 thousand kunas for inspectors unless they adopt a solution referred to in Article 74(1), does not accept because the Law on civil servants and tenants among other things has been arranged and is responsible for the violation of the official's duties as well as the liability for damages which the official makes and which he is obliged to compensate for if he commits in service or in connection with the service on purpose or out of extreme negligence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29703	We have to vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. 19 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29704	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29705	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that with 80 votes for and 6 abstentions, the Law on Public Roads was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Let's go to - Final proposal of the Hunting Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 227 The proposer of the law is the Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Law, European Integration and Local and Regional Self-Government. I would like the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy of Josip Bartolčić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29707	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! Here's an introductory explanation why this law is as proposed. In the period since 1994, in accordance with the provisions of the Hunting Law, hunting grounds have been established on the territory of the Republic of Croatia and on the remaining areas, common hunting grounds. There are also certain areas on which hunting is not established. In total, over a thousand and 50 hunting grounds have been established, namely 320 national and 730 joint and for these hunting grounds, hunting for tenants or concessionaries and contracted contracts. For all hunting grounds, hunting-economic and approved hunting-economic bases and in accordance with them, the rights of hunting masters with hunting grounds have been drawn up. So most of the law enforcement work is done. Hunting grounds and certain hunting rights authorities have been established, multi-annual planning documents have been drawn up for the management of hunting sites and hunting grounds, hunting sites are managed on the basis of these planning documents. The exercise of administrative and inspection supervision was established by the inspection of hunting inspections carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water, Agriculture and Forestry by the year 99 and the inspection was carried out within the State Inspectorate. The adoption of the Law establishing and delirious the central authorities of the state administration stipulates that inspection operations relating to hunting are carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and will be carried out by hunting inspectors by the end of 2005 at the latest. The past period of 10 years in the implementation of the Hunting and Knowledge Act is the basis for a realistic assessment of the state of validity of the basic legal and sublegal rules adopted on the basis of it. The Dominary System prescribed that hunting rights authorities could be both domestic and foreign legal and physical persons while by 94, the hunter could practically be only a local, hunting association. Even though today from the total number of hunting grounds of the hunting association lords with about 70% hunting grounds and all other legal and physical persons with 30% hunting ground. The best of masters is so that some of our hunting grounds can side by side with the best-ordered hunting grounds of our neighbouring countries. Thus, in 2002, the national Garivica hunting ground was named the best organized and run hunting ground in the world. The funds of all sorts of savages were the time of law-making because of the destructive action of war, far below possible sizes. But in 2004, they are already approximately at the level of 91 years ago and in some species of game such as bear and wild boar they are already above, above that average. This suggests that the establishment of a larger number of hunting grounds than 91st of 600ths has now been justified by 1050 and thus has provided greater intensity for hunting management. It is expected that the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union when the flow of capital is completely freed and that these results will be even better because they will express our specificity, natural habitats, variety of offers and others. Hunting tourism has again become an important part of the entire tourist offer in most counties and as such has been verified in their development programmes. It should be pointed out that our hunt is characterized by huge inequality, success and management, both among poachers and among certain regions, which can be associated with the invigoration of the dominant management system. At the same time, we have a hunting ground that has been named the best organized hunting ground in the world and a number of others by his side. And we have hunting grounds where there is little to demand modern hunting management and legal regulations. Međimurska, Varazdinska, Istria County and its hunting grounds can compete with the best destinations in neighbouring Hungary, Slovakia and the Czech Republic while such a hunting development system in most other counties will be achieved only in the foreseeable future. The bill removes the discrepancies in hunting management as well as all the obstacles and difficulties that have made it difficult to develop and improve hunting at national level. New legal solutions seek to introduce more order in hunting, starting with the very management of hunting sites, in breeding, protecting, hunting and trafficking with game and its works and the use of hunting weapons. It wants to encourage hunting tourism, revive hunting customs and tradition, strengthen hunting ethics and more effectively involve hunters and their associations in the development and improvement of hunting as a significant economic branch of our country, and this is gradually contained in the regulation of the following issues. The jobs of breeding, hunting and using game besides economics also have a function of protecting and preserving the biological and environmental balance of natural habitats, game and wild fauna and flora. First, the owner, i.e. the landowner and the water on the compensation for the restrictions that are subject to the rights of the hunt. The Croatian Hunting Union shall be given public authority, a fund for the promotion of hunting shall be established and the inflow of funds and their spending, management and supervision of reporting by the competent authorities shall be attributed. Measures are being introduced to combat poaching and grey economy through mandatory marking... Large game, the distribution of funds from hunting and concessions of hunting rights is proposed and for local self-government units to build municipal infrastructure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Administrative oversight of the implementation of the proposed law and regulations adopted by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy and inspection of the two-stage hunting inspection at the Ministry shall be carried out. For actions contrary to the proposed law, infringements are prescribed and protective measures against the taking of cases, i.e. savages used, obtained or incurred by committing offences, as well as measures for non-compliance with hunting tradition, customs and ethics. The adoption of the proposed Law does not alter the basic settings of the now applicable Hunting Act but complements the truth, elaborates or adds new ones as a consequence of the changes that took place in 1994. These and other proposed legislative solutions would improve relations with regard to the cultivation of the protection of game hunting and use and bring them closer to the way they are regulated in the hunting legislation of modern states, starting with the principle of conservation and nature protection with the aim of preserving and protecting game and its natural habitats as national wealth, as well as with their economic importance in relation to other activities relevant to the economy of the Republic of Croatia such as agriculture, forestry, tourism, trade and other. As well as investing foreign capital. The adoption of the Law is proposed following an emergency procedure to establish a hunting inspection with the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29708	Thank you very much. The chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Mr. Linic, called for a meeting of the Committee today at 2.30 p.m. in the Chamber of Janko Draskovic 202. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29709	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, Article 47 states that the concession of the right to hunt may be granted to a domestic or foreign, legal or natural person. I am the last person to look at foreign capital in the Republic of Croatia, however, I am aware, either foreign capital will come to Croatia or our citizens will come to this capital abroad. Instead of this second one, I prefer the solution for the capital to come to Croatia and so many messages, for example. a chair, I don't know, private property can't sell to a foreigner what some parties suggest, I'm experiencing a declassified policy at times when the state sold or sold banks, tourist facilities, INU, Croatian telecoms etc.. That's what I keep in politics means that doesn't promise. But now to return to this law and this hunt. I said, I don't resent foreign capital, but for a while I wouldn't give concessions to hunting rights to foreigners. I believe that no one is asking the Republic of Croatia at this time. So we don't have to do it either. We don't have to offer something to someone that nobody asks of us. What we can do to begin with, however, enable foreigners that, if they want to clearly with no small fee, they can hunt in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. That's number one. Foreigners hunted in Croatia during communism. They hunted in the '90s, and it happens clearly after that, and the secretary of state also mentions the concept of hunting tourism. However, what is happening in Croatia now? Especially in Istria. The border regime is pushing foreign hunters from Istria. Foreign hunters must pay extremely high taxes for the introduction of weapons into the area where they want to hunt, and whether it comes with their dogs and, for example, under quotes, exported game meat across the border can do so when Istria compared only to the border crossing of the Hole where only the veterinary service in the area of the county of Istria and the coastal-goran County is working. Clearly, this service such as the practice in the Republic of Croatia does not work on weekends, does not work on Saturdays, does not work on Sundays and foreign hunters this regime, better said this terror rightly experiences harassment. But finally, what's going on? Our economy is suffering. Suffering hunting tourism, resulting in a decline in tourism revenue from the type of tourism in the county of Istria, which in a positive sense was apostrophe of the secretary of state. From hunting tourism, Istrian County annually generates several million euros in revenue. At the annual level. Last year, it was half the amount, and it is now happening that 10 out of 38 hunting associations in Istria have no income to pay the money that happens for the first time in eight years. In two years, the first ten - year hunting term expires, so by not paying the bounty of the association, they risk not being accepted in any of the future competitions. So instead of giving foreigners a concession of money, we let them hunt and take their taxis to our hunting grounds. That should make sense. Not to give them hunting grounds in a concession but to allow them to hunt in those areas with compensation. That way there'll still be room for our hunters. Otherwise, it can easily happen to us that our hunters will have nowhere to hunt. Once again, no concession should be given to anyone outside the Republic of Croatia to manage hunting grounds. We have about 5,000 hunters in Istria somewhere. They are the ones who have been taking care of hunting grounds all these years, and they need to keep it clear. I also said that in the area of the county of Istria we formed 38 hunting associations with the aim of maintaining habits, maintaining customs, retaining traditions, that our people could behave in that space as they were from ancient times. I am also opposed to the fact that concessions in Istria are granted by any gentleman from Rome or Vienna, or by any other city. I advocate that these associations can continue and can care for their hunting grounds as was the case so far. What the state must do, however, to change the border regime for the entry of hunters into Istria, to agree with neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, to open up another veterinary station. Whether at Pozan near Buzet or Kaštela near Buj is irrelevant, but not to be isolated in the future. Whether knowingly or unconsciously he's doing it, I know it. I know, however, that in all this is not innocent or neighbouring Slovenia, but this practice that Istria has no possibility of veterinary customs damage to our economy. I don't mean just hunters here. I mean here when it comes to exporting fish, importing other animals, groceries and so on. At a meeting held recently in Istria, I heard that now responsibility for damage will not be negotiated by each association for itself but will be done by the Croatian Hunting Union for All. However, if our farmers struggle to harm the hunting associations that work in their space, the Croatian Hunting Union or that bureaucracy, I fear that they will find it even harder to settle their claims. There's this system in my county as well as how it worked. If this other one will work, I doubt it, we'll see. Finally, and what happens to the gentlemen with these funds for the concession? First, 5% of the compensation money goes to the owners, so they have the land. 25% of the funds go into the budget. 10% of the funds go to the department's special account for law enforcement. 35% of the Croatian Hunting Union, 25% of the funds at the expense of the unit of local self-government for the construction of municipal infrastructure and so on according to existing laws. I personally hold the gentlemen's respect that it is not fair. So those who give the surfaces of the hunting grounds, and these are the owners of our properties, they get the least. They get only 5% of that fee. And bureaucracy, for example, of the Croatian Hunting Union, receives 35% of the money from, for that purpose, which did not eat onion or smell onion. As a bit of a regionalist, I suggest that the money be left where the concession is realized. On this basis far away, far more money from the Istrian County will have hunters of the Gorski Kotar, Like, Slavonia and so on because there are savages more. The end is far more attractive. So let's help those environments that are far more underdeveloped than my county to get some money in those areas and leave. So let's decentralisation the funds, but the most resources should be left to the property owners or through whom all these hunting activities take place, under quotes, activities. When I talk about foreign hunters' revenues, I don't just mean these mandatory fees they pay. There are overnight incomes, there are proceeds from catering facilities, there are fees to guides and so on, and so on. What concerns us most now, us who are not clearly hunters, and we understand hunters, and God forbid that they are banned from hunting as recently here in the Parliament was proposed by one of our colleagues, I think Mr. Banca, looking at it, is seen in the damages of savages to the owners of these cultures on a particular property. You can't, gentlemen, here in Article 86 that farmers must take appropriate measures to prevent the damage in game in their fertilisers and so on, report without delay, I don't know, a hunting rights officer in circumstances that may affect the taking of measures to prevent damage and so on, and not say that you will compensate those people for the damage from savages. Finally, they should invest more in protecting against savages than all cultures will be worth for the rest of their lives. You can't do that. Article 90 also states that the damage caused by a gamer in a hunting zone is the responsibility of an authorisation of hunting rights if the master of that species of game has taken the necessary measures to prevent game damage. I mean, that's missing. So we're actually building up in advance that we're going to charge the farmer any damage that these wild animals do to him. Practice means it's missing, it's missing, it's supposed to be regulated to protect the owner of agricultural parcels, and especially if the gamer doesn't know how to go down the road, run to the road, so we start the damage on the car. The truth about this is that associations are provided in relevant societies, but we all know that this practice is missing. That's what club IDSa has reserves under this law. It is a good thing for the first time that associations will be able to deal with hunting tourism in the future and not directly with agencies or businesses for those purposes as it has been so far. So they could also come into a better material position. The hunting economic foundations will no longer be approved by the offices of the auctioned administration, but by the ministries. And here at the ID club, we're afraid that the decision-making move away from the field where these hunting grounds are found will be worse for the local population, it'll be harder for them to keep their hunting habits than what they've been up to now. And I think that practice should be changed somehow. One of the news is certainly an obligation to conduct hunting statistics that other than associations will have to run by all other legal and natural persons who master hunting sites. And lastly, IDS is for the most decentralised system, so when it is hunting after all, we are not mature in our court to give concessions to foreigners but to enable them to come to Croatia to hunt as they did until the 1990s and, or after 90s, imagine gentlemen to react to our fishermen that someone inside the territorial waters is allowing foreigners to claim a concession for fish or shellfish. Well, it would have been against the revolution along the cities at sea of SToga I don't think I should have been out in public with such concessions. Special care should be taken to make sure that the farmers killed by these wild animals are compensated. the funding schedule of the concession should go towards the owner of the land and not only give them 5% of the fee and 95% of the fee to take the hunting bureaucracy. And finally I'm going back to that introduction, think about customs and veterinary examinations when Istra comes along. Because this undefined relationship damages all hunting tourism, so if we want to own the country's economy as well. The adoption of these remarks depends on clear and support of the IDS with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29710	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, Mr. Representative Ivo Josipovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29711	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I am personally intrigued by this law because I must say that for a long time I have not seen such a breakthrough in the legal system as this law has done. I absolutely agree with the founding of the Legislative Committee that certain solutions are contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and contrary to some systematic Zakics. The Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Precincts, the Criminal Law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Interests, the Law on Land Books, the Law on Education, the Law on Agricultural Land, and other proposals. At first, it is surprising that in a relatively short decree it is possible in this way to devaste the entire Croatian legal system, and with the praise of the insistence that the law and our first system in part comply with the European Union directives, it would not be worse if the law had been brought into line with the Constitution but often with law and law and regulation and sound logic. And that's why I remind you of what our President Mr. Shakespeare said on Friday, that when the departments prepare the laws, they would have to pay much more attention to the regularity of the proposal that he sends to the procedure. Some of the remarks that I'm about to make may be banal refers simply to grammar and tipfellers, from the very definition of game for which it would be directed, that game that runs outside the hunting grounds is not savage and has some other treatment than the one that is defined according to Article 2 of point 1. Or formulating how a cat wild, a Dormouse large within the meaning of this law is not considered savages in the area where they are protected, who are protected, the regulations on the protection of certain animal species. So the crashes aren't responding. Or I'd like to warn you about the formulation in Article 3(4), look at that formula. It says, introduction and re-induction of animal species from the stock of this law, this article can be carried out after research, respecting the experiences of other countries, and in a way to damage it says to the natural habitats of the idiocy of the ancient flora and fauna. Of course, Article 57 speaks quite the opposite. There are some holes of illogical holes that I think are also things that should be fixed. Article 5(1) of point 2 states that the right to hunt is acquired by another legal or natural person, by concession of hunting rights, by renting state or joint hunting grounds and by subletting private-owned hunting grounds. How can you get a right to sublet instead of rent? Is there any spell to skip the lease so someone can sublet the right hunting grounds? In addition to Article 5(3), you shall state that the decision to acquire the law of the hunt referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is an administrative act. Is the lease and sublet with the owner of private land at all an administrative act? I personally don't think he can. And that there is probably some part of the text that would at least exclude the availability of a private legal nature from the classification of the administrative act. Furthermore, I would very much like to learn what it means to formulate hunting rights on State-owned hunting grounds and common hunting grounds cannot be obtained by sub-concession by sub-letting or sub-communication, which is a new term introduced after a public tender for the award of hunting grounds in concessions and leases. Probably the same order of words doesn't work, and this formulation makes it unclear. Something that probably represents the greatest breakthrough in the Croatian legal system and seriously violates constitutional principles is the position of the Croatian Hunting Union as defined. In Article 7(2), we have a unique case of forced representation of members who can be independent legal or natural persons. He says the Croatian Hunting Union represents and represents its members, in the Republic of Croatia. So how is that possible? As an association, he can force his members to represent him. So it's something that's absolutely unknown in the Croatian legal system, and already some of them are like the Sokolara Association, and unfortunately I don't know myself enough, but they've called and prayed and asked for these things to be considered. Well, it's an obligation to join in hunting committees. It is very exotic that of all the regulations in the world that are foreseen for the substitious application of the Hunting Union, no association law is mentioned. So that first law of origin that's appropriate. Then there's a very convenient listing of public powers of which some of these so-called. public powers by the nature of things are not any public authority, nor can they be, such as promoting hunting ethics and customs, it is certainly not public authority. Someone with basic knowledge of administration and administrative law and the fact that they are public authorities would never write this. The concern of the Hunting Union also spreads by definition in paragraph 2 and the power to fish on private property. Which is also very problematic from the point of view of constitutionality. And then it is probably the highlight that I fear will be difficult to find anywhere in the Croatian legal system and beyond, is a provision by which the court of honor of the Croatian Hunting Union imposes a ban on temporary or permanent money. Be careful, it has no permanent authority in either criminal or criminal proceedings, and it has some ethical, as we say the court honors the Croatian Hunting Union. So this is something that absolutely this House should not vote, or even those common mechanisms of the will of the parliamentary majority. Article 11 on the other hand provides for the kidnapping of property in favour of the Croatian Hunting Union, because by the law of the property of these locals let us call them so the working alliance passes into the property of the Hunting Union. So it's a kind of expropriation of property for the account of a law-based association. Also, this hybrid of the Hunting Union and as a para-state body and association is well seen in Article 12, where it is said that the Fund will be covered by the Hunting Union, it is said that, that the rules of the Fund will be adopted by the minister, imagine the minister will adopt the rules of the Fund, which is located in one association. And then there's an even more handsome distribution of funds. My colleague Caine, I think quite rightly said that the paradox is that the owner of the land has 5% of all incomes, and everyone else is sharing this big cake. However, it is convenient, among other things, to provide for the resources referred to in Article 34(2) and (3), where that part of the revenue is said to be the income of the Ministry and to go to a special account. Now that they're located in the Croatian Hunting Union, it's not clear to me at all. An interesting provision in Article 16(5), which states that game growing can only be established for the owner of land. What does a formulation mean, to be established for a land of ownership? Who's instituting and why only for the owner of the land? In Article 18, we have one technical, we call it a dead soul, it's a mark for an item when there are no items in the article, but there's only one single provision, it's probably left in the computer. Article 19 introduces new land records to the State and those carried out by bodies which are absolutely not competent to do so. And they're put in a plane with land books, so where there's no land books, there's some kind of record that has a legal effect that's completely unclear and that actually represents an unnecessary ballas opposite of the Law on Land Books. On what I think about forced lending and attaching to the neighbouring hunting grounds and the sales restrictions referred to in Article 24, you may think,... A completely unconstitutional provision that represents an attack on private property and I would hate for this joint assembly to vote on such a provision. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, you are prohibited from having any criminal law, the legal consequences of a conviction, where Article 27 and paragraphs 2 and 36 of Article 4 defends participation in a concession competition, or in a tender for the lease of a hunting ground for any person who has been convicted in the last 5 years for any criminal act. Imagine, for example, a convicted libel or a traffic ticket, and now you're not gonna let him take part in a contest, say, renting a hunting ground. That disproportionateity and that level I'd say depravity, I think it's exaggerated. And in a similar way, the provision requires that the owner is not asked anywhere to file a document in the competition that does not exist, so that is the belief that he has not been punished in the last five years. Such beliefs have been cast out of the Penal Code, but I don't know how long. And it would not be good if the Hunting Law introduces new criminal law institutes against the principles of rehabilitation and legal certainty of citizens. Article 31 provides for something that I think will be abandoned, I think how informed I am in the preparation of amendments to the Law on State Attorney's Office, consent to the contracts given by the State's Attorney's Office, each carrying its burden of responsibility and it would not be good for the same government to come out of the same Parliament two laws within a very short time probably with different content. Article 39 also introduces novelty in inheritance law. In the event of the death of a poacher, there is no succession between him and his successor, and that is something that is also a serious reality right. There are other very interesting, not to go into too much detail now, so it's one big set of misunderstandings of legal nature to this law. Provisions, the provisions of liability for damages have already been warned. There are some other very interesting and convenient things, and I'll read to you... a new tech, says article 112. On the day of entry into force of the Law, in the State Inspectorate Act, so we enter into the third law, in Article 79(1), the word "hunting inspection", the word "hunting inspection", is deleted. Paragraph 2 of the same Article shall be deleted. And Article 80 is deleted. So the lexis is such that it actually points to the conclusion that those who have prepared this text are not valid in the process of preparing the law. And the only possible conclusion for me is not as not even as a representative, not as a member of the Club, but as a lawyer, that this law cannot be accepted and my recommendation is that the SDP advocate treats this law as if it were in the first reading and that these terrible mistakes contained in the Law of Correction and not in a great hurry, because it seems to me that and as a basis this text does not have a great perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29712	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Ivan Vukic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29713	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Basic Hunting Act was passed in 1994. The amendments to the Law were in 99 and 2001. There is a change in the law due to the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legislation of the European Union. The Hunting Act must comply with the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, such as the Law on Government, the Law on Construction and Labour of the Central Authority of the State Administration, the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Forests, the Law on Weapons, the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction. According to the Law on hunting in Croatia, 1050 hunting sites were established, of which 320 national and 730 are common. In the course of a public tender for all these hunting grounds, lease or concession contracts have been concluded. For all hunting grounds, hunting economic bases were developed on the basis of which the tenants master the hunting grounds. The law prescribes breeding, protection and use of game. The inspections from the State Inspectorate shall be returned to the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. And we in Croatia appreciate the democratic community that this is good. The law regulates the introduction of a hunting rights institute based on concession and hunting grounds owned by a state for foreign and domestic legal and natural persons. We believe that in the first tender, the right to rent or concession should be given to a domestic legal or physical person. If there is no choice then foreign and natural persons may participate in the re-competition. I welcome the establishment of the Hunting Promotion Fund. Public powers are given to the Croatian Hunting Union. Mandatory participation of hunters, associations and poachers in the Croatian Hunting Union and the investment of part of the funds from hunting for hunting in hunting development is required. This is how it is written in the assessment of the situation of Article 2(6). We believe that membership in the Croatian Hunting Union should be voluntary, which is also prescribed by law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution. Article 34 provides for the allocation of funds from concessions to the account of the Croatian Hunting Union. This Article has left the County Hunting Federation without any income from the rent and there are also commitments to be made to the costs. We therefore propose that 15% of the funds remain with the County for the cost of implementing the Hunting Law. We are also of the opinion that the owners of the farmed land should receive greater compensation. Article 50 provides for the adoption of a hunting economic base with the authority of the ministry. We propose that, due to the volume of work, a thousand and 50 hunting grounds, the possibility of a hunting authorisation in the common hunting grounds is to bring a hunting ground for the hunting grounds with the approval of the competent administrative authority. Article 54 provides for conditions for the construction of a hunting economic base for which a legal person must have a license from the ministry. And especially in a legal person, five years of work experience on hunting business. We suggest that a legal person must have employees in a legal or physical person who has at least three years of experience in hunting activities. Namely, the Law on crafts and the Law on Commercial Companies lay down the conditions for their establishment. By issuing the licence, the ministry shall take the discretionary right to withdraw the competition and to favour another. Let us allow the expert commission to review the hunting economic base to determine the knowledge and skills of the designer, thereby affecting the quality of the hunting base. The same applies to Article 64 as regards an expert who monitors the implementation of the hunting economic base. The proposal is that it can be done by a person who has completed an appropriate hunting course during secondary, higher or higher education and who has at least five years of experience in hunting activities. We at the Karlovac County University of Karlovac have a hunting course and we think that the final hunting students are able to work on hunting economic bases and follow the implementation of hunting economic foundations. We also propose that Article 79 is prescribed to verify knowledge according to the hunting exam programme, the hunting examinations and the evaluation trophies are carried out by the Board of the Croatian Hunting Union and the persons who completed the relevant hunting teaching programme during secondary, higher or higher education will be issued a conviction from the educational institution on the subject of a hunting training test for hunters and trophy assessors. It is also necessary to include in Article 37(2) of the provisions of Article 30(2), (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8) of Article 3(3) that it has an organised guard service. Mr Secretary of State, we will also deliver our remarks in the form of amendments and join my colleagues here from other clubs to consider our amendments and if there are many and if there are enough of your amendments that this law goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29714	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29715	Dear colleague Vukic said that the fact that the inspection hunting passes from the State Inspectorate to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy is good. That's very bad. That's bad because we've been coming by the principle of "when you're being sued, when you're being sued" and otherwise that inspection's been going to the ministry for a year, it hasn't crossed by today. Because if you remember a year ago, we passed the Law on the formation of ministries and state administrations and they didn't cross today. Here's what a good solution that is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29716	It's more of a replica, but good. ... On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Representative Zeljko Ledinski. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29717	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Let me refer on behalf of the HSS Club to this proposal of the Hunting Act. First of all, we at the HSS Club are holding and already today's debate here has said that this bill can certainly not be final but that it can only be the law in first reading precisely because there is a whole series of shortcomings and legal ambiguities. Let me further say what hunting should be today. Hunting should be one economic branch in particular in rural areas that would allow for one development, allowing for a more rapid advance in especially our wider areas. In a wider space where... where there is no industry, where we can only develop ecological agriculture, eco tourism is then safe and hunting is one of the most important aspects of tourism. [[You don't understand.]] That investment in hunting can achieve a whole range of economic effects can point to an example of the state-owned company of the Croatian Forests, which in their last ten years, especially those areas that were inaccessible by war, have already been able to climb towards 2% while reminding that the forests are only ten percent, 11% of the area of the hunting site in Croatia. It means that an active engagement of all entities in that part of tourism can certainly make a substitute especially in a coastal time when it is not a winter season where works of tourist capacities that are full of winter tourism can be used in summer, especially here with hunting. In that part, it is certainly good to approach the adoption of new laws, especially because hunters on the ground all this time, and especially in the Homeland War, played a significant role in defending the sovereignty of the state, practically for the maintenance that hunters had were among the first weapons that the Croatian army had in the formation of then. Here, in short, for the introduction of what hunting might mean and what meaning it should have. But since such importance should be had then it is a little incomprehensible that we did not involve broader structures in the making of this law. Here, I own a memo from the hunting alliance of the Bjelovar-Bilogian County where their executive board says this law is unacceptable and is not in line with the needs of hunters, hunting associations and hunters. It's a quote from their memo. I think that we should have included significantly more widely in the debate of all stakeholders and not just smaller groups, and then what Mr. Josipovic was saying would not have happened to us if we had only one part of the hunter structure worked on the draft law we did not consult enough legal profession. Because it's inconceivable that one law can penetrate 20 other laws. That's what I believe the lawyers won't accept in that section that such a law is passed. And, in order for me not to repeat all those views that my colleague Josipovic said well, it is really strange to go in such a way as to regulate some concepts that are completely new. What is particularly certainly annoying are many issues of public authority given to the Croatian Hunting Union, our... Come on, come on, [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that part of some of the public powers mentioned here are already in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministries and there is no logic that now something that is in the jurisdiction of the resolution ministry, for example. Keeping track of hunting weapons, that's today, for the Ministry of the Interior. Also, giving public authority to the hunting alliance, if we want to do so, would make sense to me that the hunting alliance is then registered as a public institution that will be in the jurisdiction of its own, have its responsibilities, thus functioning. And also, the hunting alliance isn't the only one who cares about hunting, it's obvious to us. Therefore, it would be good if then some jobs, at least, and especially because there are not enough employees to do so, that we will not be able to do so. Especially what I'm sure... are the establishment of certain funds to be deployed centralised from the head office of the hunting alliance that will not be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The hunting alliance of counties which today, I would say quite independently function and make a great progress in the development of hunting, it is visible here and according to what the Secretary of State listed that the hunting alliance of certain counties particularly here are the međimus, Istrian, others, are today the best organized parts of the hunting alliance of the state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's how they develop hunting as an economic branch. It also has a whole series of things, for example. care about the development of hunting kinology. And at the same time, we have a kinological alliance. Then it would be good to distinguish what one alliance does, which the other. This is what I'm saying, like, in this section more like a public institution, so in that part, I expect those views to be corrected by the second reading. I could list a whole series of proposals that came from a letter from the hunting alliance of the Bjelovar County, but I think that, I will personally give it to the secretary that I am not reading it now because there are a whole series of suggestions about eradicating those articles almost everyone spoke of by Mr. Josipovic. This law-making would make it impossible to do any normal work in hunting, because what would happen if a law like this were passed when there was a whole set of legal concerns and contradictions with other laws. And then they'd just come into college so they wouldn't be able to spend time. And if only the aim of the emergency procedure was to bring it back because that inspection had to be returned then we could have that hunting inspection already with changes and supplements back long ago and had already been able to function within the ministry for a year. Like this, we've been in a vacuum for a year that we didn't need in that section if we wanted to see hunting as one of the members of the Resort Ministry. When we talk about awarding concessions to the hunting grounds of either own, whether they are common, it is certain that the question should be asked whether, with all these institutions, we must build only the advantage that the most favourable one in the public tender is that of more funds. I would argue here that, above all, the lease of common hunting grounds continues to be made available to those who have done so successfully, hunting associations on the ground and concessions on national hunting grounds, I don't think it's the most important thing for those who will give the most money, but who will have the best program and the question of whether we have to give it all to foreigners today. We're giving the concession for 30 years. Do we have to give it to a stranger today, or maybe it's better if we have quality hunting grounds and we have them today, what was it about, where we have quality... The structure of that stranger to come and pay that... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, from my personal experience, I can say it's no problem to sell a golden deer, a golden bear or any trophy that's high category because it has a buyer for it, it mostly has a buyer for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, I can say, here, Kopački rita where Croatian forest lords, this year four golden deer have their customers and no problem paying it, today there is in the world, above all in Europe rich hunters who, at all, have no problem having such an amount of 10-20 thousand euros to pay for... certain savages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this way, Rural development is also encouraged because that part of the funding should remain on the ground, it is encouraging and investment and I don't think it is necessary at this time until we have entered the European Union that part of the hunting ground that will appear in the concession is still at that time that we have to give it to foreigners now. Furthermore, around the lease of the common hunting grounds itself, since the lease stands out, I think it is useful to think that those who have well managed the common hunting grounds to leave them with the right to buy first and thus to exercise their right to the good lord they have so far. When we talk about the money generated from the lease and from the concession, I don't think it's well foreseen in the past law, it was provided for significantly more funds to remain the owners of land and now it's a small item of 5% especially in the concession, and that part of the funds is given part in the calculation, part of the local self-government. If we want to develop this branch then let's not take all the money into the budget, let's try to see that some of these funds go back to that branch. It is relatively small in global frameworks, but it can, with that small amount, stimulate the development of that branch. If there are no investments in this kind of tourism, then we will have no effects or results. And I say, once again, I go back to what I said at the beginning that we are investing in that part of tourism we can expect then and the economic shift and the launch of certain activities, and especially the addition of the tourist season in those areas that have capacities. In order not to discuss any more changes that need to be made for the second reading to be corrected, I pray that the ministry team consults with the wider circle and hunters and not only those at the top of the hunting alliance or at the top of the ministry but also those who are operating to make one, several quality meetings with representatives of all the county hunting alliances in such a way as to reach a better quality law. And let me draw one more conclusion. The HSS suggests that this law goes to another reading and we ask that you take these suggestions that we were talking about to understand well on purpose because they might encourage us to get a better quality law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29718	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29719	Mr. Vice-President, State Secretary, Oleg and colleagues, from previous discussions, it is obvious that there are too many arguments that speak in favor of and the views of the Croatian Party's Club of Rights, which reads: We advocate and propose to remove the emergency procedure from this bill and that it goes to another reading. In particular, from the discussion of Professor Josipovic, it stems from the fact that this bill has so many legal shortcomings that its adoption would cause more damage than the benefits of the law itself. We believe that the regular procedure is the way in which laws are to be acted and passed in this House, and we also hold that the E code that this law contains is not necessary, given that, in addition to the draft law, it is not possible to see from this annex what are the arguments that are in favour of this law having an E mark, and this means that this proposal constitutes a alignment with European legislation. That's almost gone in this bill of law. I quote: "The directives concerning the conservation of the natural habitats of the animal world cover only one part of the issue that regulates this, this law." The question is whether the adoption of this law is in this form a condition, some condition related to the eventual opening of negotiations on 17 December. I believe that it is not in the HSP, too, that this is not a condition and that removing the emergency procedure and sending this proposal to another reading would not in any case disrupt the procedure of accession to the European Union, and on the other hand would allow us MPs in this Croatian Parliament to pass a quality law which will not cause consequences, new litigation and many problems as possible if this law is adopted in this form. As a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, I am in a very awkward position and an awkward position, given that the proposal of the law to one of its provisions on the formation of the Court of Honor and its powers, I am in a very uncomfortable position, given that my club proposes and critically refers to the public powers of the Croatian Hunting Union and I am obliged on behalf of the Club to represent such a position, and as a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, I could easily, since the Statute of the Croatian Hunting Union requires members to protect the interests of the Association, I could very easily end this debate in the Court of Honor of the Croatian Hunting Union, so I am here in a small, small doubt on the issue of parliamentary immunity and, in view of the fact that the Court of Honor under the Bill as proposed, it is likely that the urgent procedure and the will of the ruling majority be adopted that the Court of honors can give me a very easy measure of 5 years, and that I should be kept in this matter of two years. So I will later look for an explanation from the chairman who is obliged to do so to the Rules of Procedure. May I be able to speak my position openly and clearly here without coming to the current Proposal of the Law under the provisions of the Court of Honor of the Croatian Hunting Union. What is doubt, the first question some colleagues have already raised, is giving public authority to an association. It is not the first case in Croatian legislation. Let me remind you of my colleagues and colleagues, this is the practice in Croatia. Let's remember ZAMP, let's remember the law still in force in the Republic of Croatia where we gave one association the right to prescribe the tax on its own, so that if it fails, then we make it available to the tax administration, which means that the state does so instead of the association. The amount of compensation shall be determined by the association. We already have such a case that has caused and caused a multitude of dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens. We are now re-applying this model with regard to the Croatian Hunting Union and the public powers that we give to the Association of Citizens. I am a member of the Croatian Hunting Union, and I have volunteered and I will probably also be a member if I do not, for the sake of this debate, but I am opening the question whether it is possible for us as a legislative body to order the law that citizens must, and that is foreseen here, means binding membership, to join the Croatian Hunting Union if they want to exercise some constitutional rights. I believe that this provision is unsustainable and, in any case, membership in associations would have to, I hold on to it as it has been. As regards the Fund for the Promotion of Hunting, it is an even bigger problem for the association of citizens, which is the Croatian Hunting Union, this proposal gives the law the right to have the funds, which, in part, will be made by the Minister, with the formulation of the rules of the Fund's board and the use of funds on the proposal of the Fund's Committee. So I read, quote: "The use of funds brings a minister within 2 months of the date of the founding of the Fund". What kind of a formulation is that, Mr. Secretary, what does it mean? If, if we quote it. The use of funds brings a minister within 2 months. What does that mean? That the minister also brings in a way, a regulation, determines where the funds will be spent. This provision in Article 13 is very, very vague, and it is about significant resources and the intention of setting up a fund, the intention of even caring for the problem of improving hunting is a good intention. She needs to be welcomed. What we have proposed, the Croatian Party of Rights Club, and we have been proposing for years now is the establishment of a public institution of the Hunting Institute or something like that. This could also be the Croatian Hunting Union, and then the problem would be much better and better-quality, noting how we have been propagating the proposal for years and there have even been indications that this proposal would go into realisation, but this did not happen to happen through this public institution, the fund, as the fund is predicted here, means which, which, which would be managed by the public institution. This could, of course, be the Croatian Hunting Union, in a thousand and more than a thousand Croatian hunting sites employ a thousand or more thousands of Croatian defenders. There are enough and too many arguments for that. In hunting, there is a problem of conflict between private and state interests. As things are now, and this is kind of indirectly acknowledged by Mr. Secretary, I quote: "There is little, in some hunting grounds, what the law requires." This is the statement of the secretary of state made here today in the debate. What does that mean? After that, of course, we haven't heard that someone was taking action, that someone was carrying on this fact responsibility, but simply here we had the opportunity to hear a statement: "There are few in some hunting grounds what the law requires." The question is, what has the Ministry been doing for the past five years? Let's say a little or nothing. And now we have a "adhoc" bill with an E marking that hot potatoes and some newspaper are transferred to one association of citizens, which is with its content the Croatian Hunting Union. In this assessment of the situation we speak and we have both regulations and chronology, but that actual assessment of the situation, the real problems related to hunting problems, is not a word. The assessment of the situation is not about hunting riots, it's not about a lot of litigation between landowners and hunters, it's not about the black meat market of savages that we all know exists. It's not about poaching and a lot of other hunting problems. In the opinion of the Croatian Party, the rights should also be spoken and proposed by their provisions and adopted by the Hunting Law. However, the assessment of the situation is not a matter of speech. We have tycoons, concessionaries, we have fenced hunting grounds, we have a great dissatisfaction with hunting associations and hunting alliances at County level, it is unsatisfactory visible through both hunting press and Croatian media. And all these interested hunters have tens of thousands in Croatia, and hunting associations and alliances county and Croatian hunting alliances expected a broad public debate because it is still a great natural wealth of Croatian people and Croatian state. The issue of concessions to foreign natural persons, foreign legal persons. It is a big problem when European legislation asks the Republic of Croatia to grant some rights that may be similar to the concessions. It is a big question of what we will do under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement when it comes to order and the issue of maritime goods, agricultural land, water, forest will come. But the question of the money and the law of the hunt is one of the questions we should be thinking about. The debate here has been established and it is said that no one has denied it, Europe does not ask the Republic of Croatia to allow foreign persons to concession on hunting grounds. The question then arises why our ministry and government suggest that we translate into the law that the right to concession and lease is reserved by foreigners. Why? It is clear from the rocks of savages, nature in our neighbouring countries mainly Italy and Austria that Croatia and how interesting it is about this problem. It sets up a septifier if none of us ask for it, and this is neither determined by this proposal nor by the Proposer why we offer it in this way. Knowing that if the public tender is a system that gives more, Croatian legal and natural persons will be able to participate in such competitions, and the question is what Croatian hunters will do and what Croatian hunters will hunt in Croatia if we allow the party to take over concessions and leases through the tender system. And this can happen very easily given the resources needed to suppress it. And in no way can we agree that foreigners can rent hunting grounds in Croatia. We now have examples of fenced hunting grounds and no one is doing anything. We have examples of fenced hunting grounds that don't know how to do that. We have statistical reports in which too many savages die, the savage of the Croatian forest reports, which is not logical. We have a lot of problems that should have and had to solve this law, and this bill does not allow it. We can't even support the proposals for provisions to traffic and sell game meat, and now we have given it to associations without any conditions. You can sell the meat of savages and make traffic without any conditions. Therefore, on the basis of the debate at the club, we propose to delete the provisions we have submitted an amendment, to delete public powers to the Croatian hunting alliance. And sending this bill to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29720	Thank you very much. I report that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute debate on this final proposal for a law on hunting. Our debate today is being followed by students of Nikla Tesla Technical School from Zagareb, and we welcome them. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivo Josipovic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29721	In his speech, his colleague Jukic hardened and pulled the parallel as so-called. ... has the public authority as we propose for the hunting alliance. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It is simply not true, because zampt does not have any public authority, but determines the price of services of its members and as they do on pay, for example, paprika producers, so artists do so through their associations. And that right no one gave them what was natural to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29722	Honored representative Drazen Bošnjaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29723	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have another law marked P.Z.E. and it is certainly necessary in this segment and in this part to bring our legislation into line with the acquiss of the European Union. However, when we look at this law, it has been indeed already stated by the remarks so far, I would say, both nomotechnical and essential, indeed the promoter should seriously consider the actual regular procedure of this law and consider whether this should be the first reading or the urgent procedure. Indeed, a lot of objections have been made, and I think it is too short for them to be able to vote on the know, the amendments or these amendments to be explicitly numerous again to bring it into line. But if we look at the essence of the law and we look at it completely, it seems to me that it is mostly resting on the current solutions to the current law on hunting and there are no dramatic changes. What concerns the status and position of the Croatian Hunting Union are certain major changes, and I would like to underline one major change, and that is that both the Ministry and the County means that the founders of the hunting grounds can extend the right of the poachers and concessionaries so far and extend the right of concessions clearly under the conditions set out in this law if they make good orderly enforcement of their obligations. If they're a master of quality. Because here we see that there is a certain inequality with us regarding the management of our hunting grounds. As we can see, 30% as explained in the explanation, 30% of the hunting ground we have at the world level and in 2002 we had one hunting ground that was named the best organized hunting ground in the world. And in light of such practice, I think this is a very good provision offered by this law that it is possible to extend the conduct of poachers and concessionaries if good and quality are mastered by hunters that without a public competition it is possible to extend such a lease or concession. This is certainly a very important question for a number of hunting societies and other entities that are on the hunt because I think they are as soon as the hunting law is mentioned to jett about the question they are interested in. Whether or not they will be changed, there will be a tender in which the only criterion in renting prices will be dominant. Because, of course, subjects who look at the matter exclusively commercially. And that is why I consider this provision exclusively as one safeguard measure and which should be interpreted as such in practice and interpreted as having to be used in practice. Anyway, don't, of course, abuse. But I think that the jacket we pass a little bit of the whole law is full of certain provisions that are due, and my colleague Josipovic said a lot of these legal things, which I actually wrote to myself, so he took away some of my debate and I won't repeat it. But I'll go and say some things. I think Article 8 is very important, although there is already much mentioned in Article 8, we have a very dangerous provision in paragraph 3 that says, that the Croatian Hunting Federation will establish by its statute the way in which the public powers and other tasks referred to in this Article will be carried out. If we have already transferred to the Hunting Union the right of public authority, then we will certainly not be able to determine that the statute regulates the way he will do it. Then at least let us say that these procedures will be carried out by applying the General Administration Act, which would be appropriate, but cannot be determined by the Statute, because public authority is when the state, meaning, transfers the performance of certain functions it has originally, transfers them to, meaning, here the association, to the right person of the Croatian Hunting Union and there would be no provision of how it will be done through the Statute, but certainly it is necessary to accurately and clearly specify it. In Article 25, I also think that it should be specified, to say the common hunting grounds are established by the competent authority in which the land areas are located. I think that too needs to be accurately figured out which one is the competent body. As far as Article 28 is concerned, it is mentioned here that these concession decisions are made by the ministry. A special commission or commission by the government is being established, and the ministry is making a decision and the minister is forming a contract. Since it's 30-year concessions, I think it would be a good idea to consider actually whether or not the concession decision is made by the government, and such a contract is concluded by the Prime Minister. However, it is a long period, 30 years and yet it is part of the contract that the Republic of Croatia is, therefore, not the Ministry and I think it would be a good thing. As for Article 34, we also see that one newspaper is to pay these rent and concession fees to be paid at the expense of the Croatian Hunting Union. I think that you should consider whether these fees should go to the state budget and then, according to these percentages, as they are mentioned, which are actually approximately appropriate to the current one. There were plenty of speeches about these 5% landowners who have land plots on the hunting grounds. I must say, in practice, if you look at the fact that such a provision is mostly unused. In fact, these are too small amounts that are collected from those 5%, so that a man who owns the land doesn't pay you at all to apply for that fee. It would normally amount to a few kunas. So I think it would be fairer even if those 5% didn't even exist, and all of that would actually be regulated through the Institute for damages. And that should undoubtedly say that the damage done to landowners is that they actually pay the maximum amount, and in the case of damages, I think they should even consider introducing an obligation for hunters and concessionaires to conclude insurance contracts to pay the damages. Because in practice, hunting societies are doing this today because it's just the damage that happens, the hunting grounds are by the roads, the game that's in the hunting grounds going out on the road, there's a huge amount of damage that they can't settle from their regular incomes. That's why today many of them actually think the vast majority of them have contracts with insurance companies on the compensation of such damage. I also made a note of Article 45, where we said in paragraph 3 that the decision to rent state hunting grounds is made by the ministry. Again, I suggest that it be considered whether it would be good if it were the government, but in paragraph 3, it says, "The most favourable offer offered is the highest ransom." I think it should, because in the spirit of the law it would be that money is not only the primary criterion in determining the most favourable bidder. I think you should also think about those other criteria, and that means what kind of program this hunter, the offerer actually, what kind of programme he's doing and the protection of game and the management of hunting grounds he's offering because I think it's some kind of broader interest and global interest that these hunting sites are good and quality masters, not whether anyone's going to get 5, whether someone's going to offer 5 euros or 10 euros more for that hunting ground. That's why I think that provision should still be reconsidered. As far as I'm concerned, I also have notes for article 90, that's damages. I can also tell you how it works in practice. That is paragraph 2. For the damage, he says, committed by a savage who does not master himself in the hunting grounds in which the damage was committed is the authority of the hunting rights in which the damage has been done. It's a situation where you have two hunting grounds and now you have a wild pig in a nearby hunting ground, you don't have one in this hunting grounds. And this wild pig commits damage to this hunting ground first, and now according to the provision of both the valid and the proposal of this Law for this damage, the one who does not cultivate it is responsible. I think that's the thing that should actually change and make it responsible for whoever's growing that wild pig in whose hunting grounds she is. Because this also in practice leads to some confusion, it's a pretty big amount, and these companies that pay for the damage that's big, have eventually, here's only the right to shoot that game or use its meat. And de facto they can't make up for what they're doing in that salary damage. So I think it might be more useful and better if the law goes to another reading because there are a lot of things to think about. Although I think this idea seems best to me, which is that those hunting societies, those hunters and concessionaries who do well, and these certainly have, to extend their lease contracts and concession contracts because I think it's actually good and to protect our interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29724	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29725	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, this law has a P.Z.E. code. which should mean that we are in line with European legislation. But before that mark was put on him, before harmonising with European legislation, this bill should be brought into line with the Constitution, with other laws, with logic and with Croatian law. Mr. President of the Parliament, on Friday, when you voted on the amendments to the energy laws, you said you'd never felt so stupid in your life because 60 nomotechnical amendments were submitted by the government to which the ill-written legal text was being corrected. I assure you that on Friday, the next one, if this law is passed as the final draft of the law, you will feel too stupid because it will be submitted, and at least 100 amendments that will correct the spelling errors in this bill. He's so anti-constitutional, so out of line with other regulations, so illogical and so illiterate that he's actually amazing, and that's why he's not even like him for first reading. The proposer should pull this off so he doesn't get embarrassed. But that seems to me, after what happened on Friday, pictures and opportunities for the government to work. It's not for this law, this look of this law is responsible only for the Ministry of Agriculture that you represent here as a representative of the Government. Because the law is, the bill of law is passed on to the government and directed from the government's session to the Parliament. So I'm asking what did the Minister of Justice do that she voted this legal text? Which was done by the culture minister that he voted on such a legal text because it was primarily rude to send something like this to the Parliament. But what do we do, that's how it is. When the department gets kicked out by the experts. Not just from the ministries, from other state organizations. Well, when similar obedience is brought in, we have such legal proposals. Here are some funny examples from this bill. The matter shall begin immediately for Article 1. So there wouldn't be any confusion about how the lyrics would continue. He says, "This law regulates the management of hunting and game." In Croatian there are 7 declines, 7 is instrumental, it is marked by society or means. If the company is marked, then the instrument is used with a "s" or "s". So the actual meaning of this sentence of yours would say that the hunting authority along with the savages will rule the hunting grounds. In Article 2(4), you are talking about a hunting rights officer, and you say that the owner of the hunting grounds is an authorisation of hunting rights on land on which hunting grounds and another legal or natural person who acquired the right to hunt by means of a concession or lease, i.e. by subletting a hunting ground. This is mentioned in the sublet and nowhere else in the entire law, except in Article 6 which explicitly says that the sublet, that the right of the money cannot be obtained by sublet. And in Article 113, I mean criminal provisions, 103. Pardon me, so if such hunting rights in the hunting grounds or part of the hunting grounds come into sublets contrary to Article 6 then the penalty from 20 to 50 thousand kuna follows. Perhaps this punishment should also punish those who have provided for a sublet in one article and then banned it completely in another article. The public authorities were already referred to in Article 8, by Professor Josipovic. You show, the government shows that it has no idea what public powers are because it has public powers, for example, and concerns about the preservation and promotion of hunting ethics and customs, concerns about the development and promotion of hunting, concerns about the preservation and promotion of hunting ethics and customs. This has never had anything to do with public authority, and it's probably never gonna have anything to do with it. Professor Josipovic also spoke about the concession and what the bidder must now fulfil, so for example, he must not be punished for a criminal offence, for any crime that is truly nonsensical. The way in which this law was written is referred to in words Article 64(5). The programme for the lay-up of a poacher brings a minister with prior consent. The whole word is missing, I guess. In that same article, in paragraph 7, you have a knowledge check according to the Program for passing the hunting examination, carried out by the Examining Commission appointed by the Minister at the proposal of the Croatian Hunting Union. But you have the same thing in Article 79(2). As well as Article 9 of the same article where HLS keeps records of the beliefs issued, you also have the same thing in Article 79(4). In article 65, you write "drive" without "and," completely illiterate. What to say about this statement. Article 66(3), with the exception of paragraph 2 of this Article, brown bear hunting is carried out on the basis of the brown bear management action plan in the Republic of Croatia for a single year, which the ministry brings and implements on a proposal from the National Commission for the Development of the Brown Bear Management Plan in the Republic of Croatia, monitoring the populations of large beasts. On one occasion, some piece of our sentence gets involved, which we don't even know how it got there. You're always talking about a lotustai, a lotustai. Lovostaj is a noun of male origin in Croatian, primarily and goes as water, is it? No one speaks water stops, so I don't know why you don't consult the Croatian Language Dictionary when the laws are written. It's going to be copied, it's going to be copied. This is very convenient, the 71st article will make listeners laugh, it says: "It is forbidden to hunt game with magnetophones and gramophones", you still have the use of reflectors. You could have put it here using or simulating the vote from a tape recorder or a gramaphone, this is what it looks like as if hunters are going to shoot a savage with magnetophones and gramophones until they kill her. He says, Article 73, the gamer is allowed to shoot off with a hunting weapon, and then guns and guns. Guns are hunting rifles, guns and guns. I'd like someone to explain to me the difference between a gun and a gun. The State Commission of the Croatian Hunting Union, it is indeed a "bisser" to establish a state commission with one association. We haven't had a chance to hear or see that yet. And he says but what he's doing now, the state commission, he's handling complaints about the trophy rating. In Article 84, you have "prevention of damage", and five lines further in Article 86. "Preventing damage." Also in article 90, you have a shot in the second one. Then what I was already saying in the instrument, it says the same thing in Article 90. "Lords with that kind of game." So, for the damage committed by the game in the hunting grounds, the hunting authority is responsible if it's mastered by that kind of savage. It means both the authority and the savage lord together because that's the kind of use we used instruments. In criminal terms, you have one very good-looking thing. In Article 107, it states: "a natural person will be punished for the offence by fines ranging from 5 thousand to 8 thousand kuna, among other things, if they commit any of the actions referred to in Article 103(1) of this Law." But Article 103(1) provides for a fine of 20 to 50 thousand kuna. Two types of punishment for the same act. That is also the case with Article 104, he says: "Article 107 will be punished from 5 thousand to 8 thousand kuna if it commits any of the actions referred to in point 104.". But item 104 says the penalty will be from 10 to 24 thousand kuna. So that's one bill of law I suggest you withdraw. And if we were to take part in a vote, we wouldn't be able to vote this way. But because this assembly declares the quorum to be gone, I will not vote on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29726	The Holy Hubert Protector of Hunters is watching over this law and will surely help with his protective role to bring this law to its proper place. Otherwise, fellow Stazic has differences between guns and guns. The revolver comes from the word revolver, to move backwards, without your input on quorums and similar to what you entered a single area that is too high for you when it comes to the Hunting Law and voting with magnetophones and helicopters. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29727	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Despite the fact that hunting and hunting tourism in Croatia has a tradition and over 120 years we have today received a law that I can say is final. Just in the fullest sense, these words are crucial and can only be discussed as a work version for the first time reading of the law. Why is it I'll try to explain to you in these 10 minutes. First, the law gives powers to a association such as the Croatian Hunting Union, which will have stronger powers than the ministry has, means stronger powers than the ministry will have. The law against the Constitution establishes a binding membership of the Croatian Hunting Union. The law says that the Fund will act with the Croatian Hunting Union and the Law gives power, the final proposal to the Court of Justice honors power more than regular courts. It's one nonsensical legal and the problems about this are enormous. The problems in the area of hunting are huge and it is not only during Minister Cobankovic and this government, but it also goes to Pankretić. For four, five years, the situation in hunting has been getting worse and worse, and the ministry has done nothing smart and systematic in the last five years. However, the State Inspectorate in which I was working at that time has provided analysis, information on what the situation is, so I'll just tell you that it's inadmissible to say that the inspection findings have found that in areas so-called. The hunting grounds of the state, that it happened over one year as if under quotes "a large game of 30 to 50% has died". And that's... 30 to 50%, and now I'm going to tell you that year, says 6 bears, 145 deer, 172 deer, 675 wild boars and 26 muflons. And that's how the state was damaged, the deaths were all done by officials and Bandic and everyone else was hunting on the team, 150,000 euros and no one was responsible for it, 150,000 euros. And what's the situation in the hunting grounds? Here's what we should have, in the state hunting grounds, say Motovun forest, compared to how much the rabbit game should have 83% of what it takes, the pheasant has only 49%, let's say in another hunting grounds where it has... is only 60% of what it's supposed to be. It's 46% in a deer. Let's say white hair... and there's 73%, wild May 94, which is pretty high. For example, in the Smrekova hunting grounds, the expensive deer is only 50% of the planned. And it's further down, lower and lower. And now we're giving it to the Croatian Hunting Union. And what are we gonna do? Nothing. Let's go back to this part we talked about. We can, let's set up a public institution, it can also be a hunting agency that will rule, be careful that it is 1005 hunting sites in Croatia. 1005 hunting grounds. Let's start a public institution and hire every hunting ground can be one developed defender, if not two to start with. The use is multiple. What's the use? It prevents poachers, prevents the alienation of mineral raw materials and forests. Preventing alienation, stealing wood in the woods. He's overseeing work and milk. It controls even the state borders, and it can still grow game. Therefore, it is effective and then should put P.Z.E. Then I would accept that this part has a P.Z.E., because that would be a way to hire the unemployed. Look out, these are all hunting sites, we know how and in what way, the long borders both towards Serbia-Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia. And in this way by hiring young people, means developed defenders and others we provide, he is employed where he is, and there will be no problem with either PTSD or anything else, he will be useful, he is in uniform, he controls it. When that proposal was made, it's a 99-year-old proposal I've been working with the esteemed General Bobetka, and it was hitched, an example by Matesha said the hunters were hitchhiking. That's the situation. Then the proposal was made during the coalition government, taken over by Shime Lucin, was in one part and Minister Pankretic, I think and Bozo Kovacevic, and then went to work on ranger uniforms first. And there was nothing of it at the end of the project. To them it was most important to make what uniforms would be. It means the system of Canada and other countries. And that's what we came up with here is for you as the Ministry to give up everything in this area, and you're offering us a law with P.Z.E. So I'm asking you to really give up,...the HDZ Club's proposal, allow management of that part, so we won't have this kind of game dying from 30 to 50%, and you know who moved that game and that's what's at stake. Let's make a legal state and this proves that we really need to move towards forming a state administration according to the size of a Croatian man. Because this is something I don't know how to say otherwise, but if it were concluded, it's just a conclusion. So I suggest you give up and take this as a first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29728	Okay, I'm not going to put myself clearly in a situation like last time what my colleague Stazic said we were voting in that way as on Friday about that set of those laws. Correction of the incorrect quote, respected representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29729	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting Mr Kovacevic's incorrect quote that he said I was in the tailoring business, i.e. radio those ranger uniforms. I reject that part, since I leave it to a colleague where he's right, I had nothing to do with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29730	What do you deny that you've been doing with your tailoring work? It's an honorable job.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29731	Unfortunately, I'm no expert on him.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29732	Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, so she won't make a contribution to this law. Dear Representative Marko Širac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29733	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. Breeding, protecting, hunting and using savages have been governed by the 1994 Hunting Act. It has already abandoned the regulatory system of hunting management and adopted the normative order of hunting in accordance with the legislation of most European countries. However, some difficulties have been expressed in law enforcement, which complemented and amended the Law. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also repealed paragraph 2 of Article 35. The law on hunting, which applied to the availability of the rent. According to the provisions of the Hunting Law, more than 1050 hunting grounds have been established in our country, and certain areas on which hunting grounds cannot be established. For all hunting sites, hunting grounds for these hunting grounds have been established and contracts for the lease or concessionors have been concluded with them. Administrative inspection is in place. Although the regulatory system in the hunting grounds was present for 60 years, the lease system was introduced by the 94 Law was immediately accepted and it was affirmed in our practice. The hunting rights authorities have become legal and natural persons and local hunting associations that master 70% of the hunting grounds. The spirit of free entrepreneurship has been affirmed and is best mastered in hunting grounds where hunters or concessionaries are legal or natural persons. Hunting tourism in our country has again become an important part of the tourist offer. Hunting in our country is still faced with a lot of problems from which to point out the following. There are still minefields in certain parts of our country and it is impossible to master hunting. Many lands are not yet processed and... with forest which also changes the conditions of management in hunting grounds. We also have the occurrence of large fires on the coast and in the coastal area, which also creates exceptional difficulties. Building new modern traffic is changing the living conditions of savages in our individual areas. The ministry has difficulty implementing the Law for inspection, as it is under the authority of the second ministry. The number of inspectors covering this authority is also insufficient. All of this, therefore, points out the need to bring this law into line with European Union legislation into line with the need to adopt a new Hunting Law that will regulate management of hunting and game. The proposer also proposed the law and cited issues that he would like to settle with the law between which I would point out only two or three. First of all, the activities of breeding the protection of hunting and use of game, the concept of game, the introduction of the hunting rights institute, the introduction of the hunting rights institute, the Croatian Hunting Union of questions about it are being arranged, the establishment of a fund for the promotion of hunting and the inflow of funds of the fund, their spending, management and control, the way of achieving hunting rights, the pursuit of administrative and inspection tasks, criminal and criminal measures. However, when looking at the solutions that have been introduced into the law and precisely in order to meet these issues that I consider to be very well asked and that these issues in the law should be resolved, it should be known that individual solutions are contrary to the regulations of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and in particular to the Law on the Protection of Nature, the Law on Agricultural Land, the Criminal Law, the Law on Land Books, the Law on Mandatory Relations and other laws. It is especially necessary to review the solutions to the Croatian Hunting Union. Overruns of possible legal constitutional powers are contained in the decisions of the Court of Honor of the Croatian Hunting Union. A number of provisions which have been transposed into this law and which otherwise well regulate certain questions in the field of hunting are also not in line with the applicable laws that I have listed and with others. In addition, certain provisions are mutually opposite and contain solutions that may lead to doubts as to their application. Now, Mr. President, just a few words on individual solutions made in the articles of the law, so Article 3 should define what a feathered game is. Article 4 of that Article is replaced by the following: Article 3 is to be fully reformed because it does not correspond to the meaning to be prescribed in its formulation. Article 7 laying down questions concerning the hunting alliance defined here as a single national association to which hunters to whom rules governing the association of citizens and associations of citizens are to be applied, since nothing else can be done. It is otherwise resolved and I do not think that it could remain in this law in this way arranged, especially all that is entered into in Article 8 concerning the public powers of the Croatian Hunting Union. In Article 10, where a way of establishing a court of honor is described, this article should be fully regulated in a completely different way. So, all put one, two and three together and arrange in an appropriate manner and the court can only be given those powers that arise from other our laws and cannot be prescribed something that does not belong to it specifically cannot stand a provision in Article 11 which transfers the ownership of hunting associations or hunting institutions by our counties to the property of the Croatian Hunting Union. It is for me a nationalisation of property that is contrary to the Property Act and has no condition for such provisions to stand in this law. Of course, the issue of the fund, its board of directors, then the sources of funding and funding of the fund and, of course, the way in which the positions described in Article 12, 13, should be arranged in another way, and the question arises, in particular, why would the Fund have to submit its reports and its programmes to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because it is not stated here that it is neither seeking consent nor asking for the position and opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. President, there are more objections in other provisions, and I'm done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29734	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today in the Croatian Parliament and our work, were on the board of Children's Forum of the Union of Associations Our children of Croatia with their activists and welcome them nicely. They're our children. [[Applause]] Now I'd like to interrupt the debate. Resume at 3:00. We've got eight other MPs on the subject. He's the first representative of Jure Bitunac. And after that debate about the Hunting Law, we're going to discuss the Maritime Code. Resume at 3:00. I'm asking the MPs to their seats. We're continuing the debate. Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29736	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a law that has driven great interest in the Croatian public in the first place because of the fact that we are all related to nature and nature and on the other hand that we have a large number of hunters in the Republic of Croatia. It is about the circus of 200 thousand people and must be closely watching what we are going to say and how when it comes to this law it is passed and since roof associations are partly familiar but wider membership is not our great obligation to listen to one another and to pass one law that will be enforceable and sustainable and feasible for a long time. Hunting as a way of surviving in the distant past at the beginning of human history, the human race had in some ways a biological meaning and meant the survival of man. Today he takes recreational sports character, a recreational sports dimension but on the other hand he becomes a significant branch when it comes to the economy, especially when it comes to tourism. For me, as a representative and as a citizen at all, a question is raised which I would like to answer by this law, which is the preservation of savages because we are aware that every day of a particular species slowly disappears or their number is reduced to a minimum, which in the foreseeable future would mean eradicating them, their disappearance from the biological map. I am a parliamentary representative who received a letter from the Split-Dalmatia County, a more extensive letter from the Hunting Union of Split-Dalmatia County, where certain remarks, suggestions and comments are indicated, and I consider it my obligation to convey all items and all their thoughts cannot accept it. She can be different. In particular, I have to do this because of the number of 6 thousand hunters in our Split-Dalmatia County and we know that a large number of them and even hunters in Croatia participated in the Homeland War and we can also say that the first weapons of the Croatian army are now coming from hunters. In this way, I do not want in any way that we are trying to impose any other solutions that are not in the spirit of European and world experience on hunting. Their basic remarks refer to a bill that loses the county hunting alliances of any kind, mainly the jurisdiction over common hunting grounds. On the other hand, their relationship within the Croatian Hunting Union is quite problematic, undefined and they believe that they are marginalized in this way. My thinking in this direction is that we should go with some additions or amendments to the law itself or in the bill if we have in mind the fact and if we start from the diversity of hunting grounds in the Republic of Croatia, the approach must be quite specific and that is possible if part of the power when it comes to the Croatian Hunting Union is also defined and transferred to the hunting alliances of the counties. What worries me too is the introduction of new species of savages. Let us remember, here on the list in Article 2 of this article stands Mungos, we know that it is not an indigenous species when it comes to savages in Croatia, that it has been introduced and has been in the function of extermination of poisonous snakes. But something else happened, so he went down, on the island of Mljet I think, and that's it, he's got other animal species mostly feathered game. Well, I'm also reserved when it comes to wild rabbits that are mentioned here, and in some ways it would be good to find an opportunity to increase the number of rabbits and not to enter rabbits. With the letter I received from the Hunting Federation and on this law, I also had conversations with a number of people dealing with cattle farming, then I somehow noticed one in article 62, a remark about shepherding dogs and their free movement. It is about the fact that the article provides that they can move 300 meters away from the herd or from the house, housing that is unsustainable to me, and that in practice cannot be spent at all, especially if we know that breeding dogs as German and Croatian shepherds, as a charplanine, etc. In some duel one-on-one, they stand a chance against the wolf. Therefore, we cannot say that their movement can be within 300 metres of the herd or 300 metres from the economic facility. In addition, Article 30(5), point 4, instead of having a working exam, is referred to as hunting dogs. However, hunters believe that it will go to great cost and that it will not be possible to properly implement that law, or that it will impose large financial obligations on hunters, that they should stand to have the test of natural traits. In other words, those dogs don't have to go to training, studies, etc. Although we can speak about the practice in the world but they feel that a certificate is sufficient in some way for a certain dog and that in some ways it should be amended in Article 30. That's my opinion and my suggestion. All in all, I think this law is good. When it comes to protected species, I can't say and not mention a wolf who isn't listed here, which is a beast. So, it's not on the game list and it's protected by law, I agree with that. I have to say for myself that the wolf has become an urbanized beast, that it comes to the very edges of the city, to do great harm to people. I'm saying this from the position of the man who lives in Dalmatia, and I know of all the problems facing our shepherds, our cattlemen, and I consider it the most important that the state or the competent ministry do the damage, the real damage compensation, not to be 40 or 50, or 60% of the real damage. Here, that would be my kind of small contribution when it comes to this law. And I would be happy to come up with such a solution, a legal solution that will be sustainable, enforceable and that the bill allows, in the right sense, the management of hunting areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29737	Thank you. Honorable deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29738	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! I will immediately come out with a proposal and support the need to conduct this law in two readings. It seems to me that the proposer probably too... After this part of the debate which was held and which was carried out in the working bodies, because it is clear that some of the issues which are covered or which wish to be regulated in a different way by this Act are partly affected but also, in part, that they can also be brought into question from a constitutional point of view. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, the concept is that of course, this Law foresees that the animal world is good for the Republic of Croatia and it can, of course, be limited by law and related to the achievement of ownership and other rights not only but also rights of ownership. But it is a very interesting concept by which a good interest in the Republic of Croatia can be given through the right to hunt in a concession relationship while at the same time the income of the concession is actually paid into the Croatian Hunting Union. The question arises where the interest of the Republic of Croatia is then because this part is not fully worked out although it is in principle included that the Croatian Hunting Union will take care of maintenance, renewal,... And breeding, etc., savages. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second issue, which in itself imposes the need for a substantive, very serious discussion of this bill, is relations or interrelations that are established in different types of ownership related to additional real legal powers arising from the right to concession and hunting rights. First, the fact is that here it starts to limit the right of ownership, the right to hunt, but then that right of ownership when it comes to agricultural examples of the surface or forest land is paid only for fees. This in relation to the Constitution, Article 50 would be difficult to interpret as the Constitution explicitly states that a market fee must be provided. Another problem is even more serious when it comes to non-state hunting sites than about state properties such as forest land and forests and of course agricultural land owned by the Republic of Croatia which is otherwise given in a concession for agricultural war production. It also now provides for the possibility that it can be paid for the concession use of hunting associations, physical and real domestic, emphasis and foreign persons. And if, at the same time, for the restriction of ownership, for the exploitation of, say, fertility, etc., only a fee, and not a post-market fee, what would that mean, or what damage all can be, for example, from high game, etc., on crops such as corn and not counting everything else, it is certainly known in such a situation that this issue should be regulated differently. In addition, there is an open question of what kind of interrelationships are... the ownership, authorisation or concession authority in relation to the benefits they have received in the concession. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The third thing that is also very important is the question of what kind of relationship this law of the Croatian Hunting Union is about, or what relationship this law of the Croatian Hunting Union is about, the Fund which brings or which is established by the Croatian Hunting Union for the promotion of hunting... and third in what relationship he's in with... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] First, it is very interesting, it comes from the assumption that the Fund established the Croatian Hunting Union, at the same time the Fund's special funds would be in the special account of the Croatian Hunting Union and therefore the Fund would not have legal personality status and at the same time the Fund would have to adopt statutes and carry out the tasks of breeding or improving hunting, etc. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the question arises as to who is legally responsible whether it will be the Croatian Hunting Union as an association responsible or the Fund in which the money, which is not directly with it, but in a special account. It also raises a very serious question as to how it is possible that the founder of the Fund does not, for example, adopt certain rules and so does the work of the fund, but is governed by the minister responsible for agriculture, ie, forestry and water economy. It just doesn't work better. Of course, the Ministry should be a supervisory authority and should control the implementation of this Act and everything else but there is no point in having the Fund set up by any other rules on the operation of this fund brought by the minister. It simply does not work because it engulfs the constitutional position of the association. After all, it is not necessary for such jurisdiction of the minister at all because then the minister would be responsible for one part that will not be able to prepare objectively on his own but rather someone else will. The third question is the question of state hunting grounds on the envisaged, the fourth question, the question of state waterfalls that could be given to periods of 10, or not to 10, but from 10 years, so that every 10 years and the second, it is exceptional when it comes to a part of high savages could be applied to 20 years. And at the same time you're predicting that you could be restored or... The game fund within five years. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises whether every five years or just five years. Because it's not the same as having a five-year-old game before handing over from a concession or hunting pool or having a game that's, like, full maturity, etc., etc. When it comes to... and reflection. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, it is quite interesting, and the situation that speaks about these problems which, otherwise, Mrs esinally speaks about concessions that would be given for 30 years and on condition, I find that very interesting to join the Croatian Hunting Union. Now, I'll read it again, maybe I didn't get it right. “The concession of the rights of money can be given to a domestic and foreign legal or physical person who joins the Croatian Hunting Union for thirty years.” This means that we, in the Croatian Hunting Union, will thus interpret it as having members of hunting associations from Sweden, Africa, America, Asia, etc., and that they will, of course, get the opportunity then, because they are both legal persons and there, and that they will then have the opportunity to no longer receive a national hunting ground of 10 or 20 years but at thirty years, will have a completely different position and quite different conditions and benefits that apply in the Republic of Croatia for those who will have to improve, maintain etc. Hunting. I personally believe that in the same starting position all legal persons and natural persons must be equal according to the Constitution. But the second question is how and under what conditions can someone get a concession of goods that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia under the Constitution and under this Law which should be specifically prescribed to protect this particular interest of the Republic of Croatia, I think this is as set up is not good but that, in principle, the issue should be further elaborated. It is also very interesting that, for example, it is related to the objection if, for example, the expensive attorneyship that should be protected here is not only a property, because both game and real estate, forest land or agricultural land is done again out of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and the jeweler on which they are also good for the Republic of Croatia for the first time, it is assumed that they can, that they can be given rapits within 15 days. And if no state attorney's office is declared within 15 days, it is considered to have given a positive solution. Well, for God's sake, why are we depriving the general public's attorney's office in a specific case here the possibility to declare within 60 days as any other administrative body that is administrative and administrative? And in the end, I still have a whole series of questions of this kind of individual nature that they're warning that this should be done. And, of course, also, for example, the most favourable offer. Which means the most favourable offer to be appreciated only from the point of view of the bounty. At that point, if it's from an aspect of the prized lease, then that moment, we are what we are that is of interest to the state completely... Because if the game is of interest to the charm to be protected, regulated and protected, then in such a situation it will certainly be very important how the hunt will be improved, how it will be ensured... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] raises, how their natural habitats will be protected, how the game itself will eventually be protected and ultimately health care and savages. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, a whole series of things that do not always have to be direct and win through some kind of lease, but through the protection of certain goods that are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and in this respect it is quite clear that such a concept as it is set is not actually in spirit with a basic concept of protection of the state interest. The Law itself normally has a whole series of termological terms that have been used in a way that cannot actually fit into the legal system. And it should be completely different done, done and for that reason I don't think the law should be rejected because he's for, as a basis for first reading good. He needs to be discussed. These issues should be further discussed with the constitutional and legal aspect, prepared for the final draft of the law and adopted in the second reading for a simple reason nothing will happen if this law is not adopted now in this month but in the first month but important things will happen if it comes into force, while any water disputes will be disputed by constitutional law and will be in force and the concessions will be awarded next year and such contractual and concession relations with domestic and foreign legal and physical persons will become difficult to correct. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29739	Thank you. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29740	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. So I'm going to try to minimise my debate for the simple reason we've heard a lot about the law here today, and I'd say we have a break debate that we've had and we've concluded unanimously that this law should go to first reading, which definitely means he needs certain repairs. I would not be repeating here the part that says that he is contrary to certain existing laws, with certain illogicalities already mentioned here but I think it must be noted that it is not good that such a law comes before the Croatian Parliament and that I agree with the President who has already respected it last week, and I think that if this proposal has already come to the government according to my information, but as a proposal, it is not good that the final proposal ended in Parliament as a final proposal, and I think that it should still be held in it. I think the ideas are set to say hello. I don't think we should run from it anyway. I think it is necessary to pass the law, and what is necessary is to regulate the hunting inspection and it is good to move it to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Economy, an idea that personally supports it. There are a number of provisions in which I think we should conduct a little wider public debate and I believe that until the second reading, our hunters will primarily be involved here. And they on this upper part of the Croatian Hunting Union, but also our hunters in the county hunting alliances because I fear that this proposal did not come to them, and I believe that they will contribute to the law when it is adopted. What appears here as a problem and the total problem is yet, I would say already 6, 7 or 8 years old, the problem of determining the hunting grounds, the problem of our hunters who today are largely not satisfied with what we have. We slowly realize that hunting is an elite sport, that hunting for those who are still a little richer but sometimes forgets and unfortunately in all of these things one large part of our hunting associations has remained in some way disabled that those hunting sites that have for many years still used because some others have come to these hunting sites. I thought that this problem might fade over a year, two, but on that day, today, when you talk to people and certain problems, it would be good if at all possible for certain provisions to help these hunting societies, to see how feasible it is, and that, as many have already said, it is not the only criterion of money, it is not the only criterion of height that is given, but certainly the programme that will bring us, and we must all admit it together here that some hunting sites are not being devastated as they are. And I think in those provisions when, I believe, there is still a need to be more energetic, stricter in the provisions relating to the confiscation of the hunting grounds of those concessionaries, those who get the lease, but do not behave in accordance with all those prescribed in the law. Not going in, I say, into a series of details, but there wasn't so much here mentioned on the other side of the law, and maybe they're both grammatical and so on, but there's one thing I'm going to mention here. I think that it shows, unfortunately, that we have done this law too quickly, so in Article 76, paragraph 2, we have missed that, I will only read that "the savage is forbidden to hunt and lure food, water and other means in a belt 300 metres from the border of particularly protected parts of nature" referred to in Article 15, paragraph 2, point 1, of this law and on green bridges that serve to cross savages across highways. Over the highway, right? But as much as under the highway. Because now someone who would be a little more skilled, and hunters are always more skilled, waiting under the highway, and we know that we also have green bridges underneath that part and certainly do what is not allowed. I believe that this is an oversight that must certainly be corrected but as one example in that part that I think we are certainly here and here on the board, I note once more that we have been unanimous, we should experience our dorado and come before this honored home in this work, and then as the president pointed out that Saint Hubert is watching over him. He might have fallen asleep here, so he wasn't so awake all the time in that part. I believe it will come in that true form to the pleasure of all hunters, but surely with these corrections that are necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29741	Honorable representative Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29742	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In my final proposal for a law on hunting, I would like to refer to the provisions of the law in the first chapter. It means general provisions, i.e. those provisions, and in other articles that regulate the concept of hunting, hunting, game, and what functions these jobs have. I'm saying this for the reason that in everyday talk and conversation between people, the concept of hunting and the accompanying activities related to hunting in most people is causing mostly unfavourable connotations. Hunting is considered a privilege of the rich. There are traits of violence, reckless killing of savages and destruction of nature. My thinking and knowledge point to something quite the opposite, and I believe that the proposed law is well arranged. The following would be expected to appear on land areas where hunting is prohibited, such as national parks, reserves and similar areas, in a significantly larger number, and to be significantly higher on these surfaces and wildlife damages. However, the situation is reversed. The largest number of savages as well as other animal species are found right in hunting grounds where the best lords are. This indicates that these jobs must be carefully regulated by a special regulation, or law on hunting. This is the approach other European countries have, and in this respect, the proposed Hunting Law is a sign of modern European hunting legislation. Article 3 of the proposed law lists animal species representing game and lists of savages in the hunting laws of our neighbouring countries shows that our Hunting Act includes the smallest number of species, which highlights its protective role. I also believe that the bill strongly pointed out other than the economic and tourism function and the function of protecting and preserving biological and ecological balance, the natural habitats of game and wild fauna and flora. The right to hunt is linked to the right of ownership and in this segment our hunting legislation is on the trail of modern European hunting legislation, in which the right of ownership also brings the right to hunt. I consider the minimum area of the hunting grounds in Article 20 of the Law well chosen and should not go below them because at least one species of large game is grown in almost all our hunting grounds, and hunting grounds below 1000 hectares would make it impossible for natural game farming. The lease of hunting grounds through a public tender is also a gain of free entrepreneurship and it is good that such an institute for the acquisition of the right to exercise economic activity has also been prescribed by our law. The provisions of the article in the second chapter, which states that the Croatian Hunting Union should be brought into line with the provisions of the Constitution regarding the mandatory membership of hunters and hunting associations in the roof hunting alliance, this has been clarified on the Committee today. So it wasn't, it wasn't the desire to pass in this law. And I also propose that the cultivation and promotion of hunting ethics and customs and the way the court works be resolved by the Statute of the Croatian Hunting Union and not by this law. I agree with the establishment of a hunting fund because the problem of small financial investments is clearly highlighted in the current management of hunting grounds of the Republic of Croatia. I also find it good that labour rules and the use of funds from the fund are placed under the control of the government of the Republic of Croatia, allowing for their transparency and expertise. The introduction of hunting statistics into law-edited affairs is considered good because the Republic of Croatia was one of the few countries that did not adequately address the problems. I also support the conclusion of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry that this proposal of the Hunting Law is going into regular procedure, in order to have time to address all observed shortcomings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29743	Thank you. Honorable representative Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29744	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here today we have been discussing a law that has been tang in some way many in the Republic of Croatia, which touches in a very innovative way and in many interests. Because there is also the Croatian Hunting Union. The County Hunting Union is within the same Croatian Hunting Union, hunting associations, many individuals according to my information 50 thousand hunters joined in the Croatian Hunting Union. Croatian forests, land owners and a series of other entities. Here today we have heard a number of legal concerns and other objections, and I will also bow to those who advocate this is the first reading of the law. To try to respect some of the elements of today's debates and then to come to another reading with a more qualified proposal. By 1994, we had a system where the poacher was a local hunting association, so in the area of a municipality there was a hunting ground, and there was a hunting company that was also a hunter. The 94-year law changed the system, so we've regulated this hunting protection and the use of savages by hunting law. An area of the Republic of Croatia has been established. National common hunting sites. And 150 so these hunting grounds of which 320 states, 730 common. Hunting economic bases, lease contracts and concessions have been drawn up. All those involved in the launch of hunting competitions remember the number of problems, numerous conflicts of interest that occurred in the field during the years 94, 95, and 96. It wasn't a bad solution, but if it could be better, it'd be a better time for me to believe that. It was mostly problematic and a time when all this happened together because it needed to know that the state was at war and so many hunters were involved in the Homeland War, so in some way or in the first lines of defense of hunting weapons that they had in the 1990s and 91s was almost the only weapon they could have had. That's why this law really touches the mngoe and I think it really needs to be approached subtly. If it is already here in some way and agreed that the law goes into another reading, of course we will not submit amendments but allow me just a few thoughts of comments and events on individual articles. I don't think that in Article 21, where the cost of hunting for its own hunting grounds is defined, it could possibly not stand for the owner of land that has a hunting ground on his land, he must accept the largest bounty paid in competition for neighbouring hunting grounds. I think my minimum correctness was to be the initial price for the contest. It is then defined in Article 25 that the expert committees of 5 members propose the establishment of common hunting grounds. And there it is proposed to be at least three people with a final forest, veterinary and agronomic college. I will remind you that at the university in Karlovac, there is a course of hunting and nature protection, where they are educated and out of which hunting engineers come out, and I think that there are also competent persons who can participate in this business. Also, in Article 54, where hunting grounds are defined, I also think that hunting engineers could participate in this work. Next thing you know, I want to comment on who can be a concessionary, or a hunter. The proposal for this law defines that the concession of the right of money can be granted to a domestic and foreign legal and natural person, the same as when giving common hunting grounds to a lease only in a second repeated bid. If we've defined that the concessionary cares about farming, protection, money and use, then I think if it isn't necessary that we should only retain the possibility and right to give to a domestic legal or physical person. And I'd end up with what I think should also be fixed, and that's the funding from this joint fund. In any event, it should also be used for compensation to landowners, as well as for compensation to the county for implementing the law on hunting, because nowhere does the county receive funds and it also has certain costs when implementing the law on hunting or therefore when forming its own commissions and commissions. What should certainly be welcomed is the possibility that those hunters who have done such quality work in a high-quality way, who have managed the aces of the hunting grounds, can, therefore, extend their hunting relationship to another term of employment on the same terms. There's a lot of stuff in the law itself, so good suggestions, but I mean, like I said, there's just too much uncertainty, and there are too many things that should be complemented and changed. And that's why I support those who advocate that the law goes to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29745	Thank you. Dear Representative Antoine Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29746	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the esteemed representative of the motionors, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, hunting in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition that this very tradition, one attachment, and the organization that existed in hunting, imposes certain doubts and dilemmas today, as much on the existing Hunting Act as it does on the present one that is before us. First of all, I join all those who feel that it is good for the quality of this Law, that this Law goes to another reading. First of all, certain misunderstandings that have long existed within hunting tourism as segments that are interpreted differently depending on who looks at it. If they tried to bring into the order in which they would not be visible, at this point, I would not say impatience, but certain reflection between different entities that are directed at each other. Unfortunately, we in Croatia, and we should, and sometimes there was a much stronger concentration and interest and even relations within the scope of hunting, I mean the relationship between hunting and hunting tourism. And I just think it's one of the segments of this bill that isn't enough or that it hasn't been able to take care of that record, that devastation that's been created and that day is still coming. And he's visible equally, if we see statisticalally how hunting tourism was moving, although unfortunately we immediately come to the first problem. We have no defined category of hunting tourism, so it is very difficult to answer the question of what hunting tourism is in nature. Is this a commercial category, whether it is a combination of the relations of catering and tourist activities and hunting activities, or the implementation of the hunt. Is this the category that has its source in the basic Act on Tourism and Hostage activities. Is it an activity that stems from the law itself? It's very difficult to find such an answer, we just haven't defined that product yet. Therefore, both before us, and I think that this Law, regardless of which it is a fundamental law that regulates tourism and catering activity, should be defined more closely by that concept. This term is important, and then I will say not only in the context of the economic activity based on hunting tourism, and we know that once, especially in the western part of continental Croatia, there was a strong source that multipled certain effects that were apparently favourable to the area, but probably also the economy of the region and that once the catering facilities, the hotel facilities filled precisely with hunters and who had a pretty good relationship between hunters, hunting societies and this form of tourism. For this reason, I think it is good that the existing Article 67 paragraphs 3 and 4 in the current Hunting Act explain, that it is defined and that it defines as such exactly what a tourist product is in the context of hunting tourism. On the other hand, it is equally important to define what it represents and how it can be recorded, systematised and normically set up by the existing Act on Tourism and Food Activity. Furthermore, certain administrative procedures, especially as regards hunters and those tourists who come from outside, when crossing the state border, especially the manipulation of weapons, but also other forms that we have to undertake under tourism services, are not in line with the needs, and are ultimately not in line with our interests, because it is certainly our interest that this part of tourism in the framework, clearly, the preservation of those natural resources, without jeopardising the fundamental resource, is in such a sense that there is an interest. And to make that interest as public as possible, that means that the state budget must also feel one such interest. What experiences are in the world and whether one is so complicated, at this point, the system that is with us can be simplified and whether there can be what we will call the preservation of the tradition of hunting and rights and, clearly, all numerous hunter associations and all those who participate in it and the modern concept of hunting tourism as one complementary tourist service. Of course there is. Some experience, here, I've just happened to hear a Canadian experience, a colleague is immediately looking forward to it, which is very simple. They solved all these relationships at the stamp level. And then when you buy four deer stamps, you have the right to shoot four deer, for example. Of course, you'll pay well, but if you happen to do it with 5, then you'll never be able to do it again. You'll be very sanctioned. And it's a very simple mechanism that is universally set. Universal. I'm not going to talk about the price right now and what's behind it, but the task of every law is to make it possible, simpler, and everyone understands it. That there are no structures or categories of users or those interested in hunting that will not understand, or that will be in a different position than others. And that in this traditionalism and certain rights arising from the way the hunting alliance, the hunting societies and hunters were perceived, it was kept at that level that gave them their fundamental interest, which is clear not only to catch but also to take care of these catches, of protection and of everything together. Furthermore, the issue of game farming, which has also been stagnating in recent years, and we were once especially in the Varazdin area, I think, dominated by the breeding of savages. Clearly, some of the incentives and subsidies that were in that section also disappeared, thus bringing down the production we had and which had primarily the export character. Therefore, it had in consumer terms an export character because the consumption of these products was either foreigners or it was exported to other hunting sites, again intended for a consumer or exported outside the borders. Therefore, this is a very challenging category and I think it is good, and the Committee on Tourism is on several occasions, colleagues remember, during their stay, here, and for the last time in Osijek-Baranja County, subject and interest of the alliance, the Hunting Union of the Croatian Tourist Community has been able to redefine and how different and better to set up and regulate the relationship between hunting tourism, between hunting and legal positions in general. I think we have space here for this period between first and second reading if, and I think it's some message to most people, that we can do very well with these laws. Right on the practice of the countries that are our neighbours. So let's say one Hungary, you know that, in the context of hunting tourism, rural and wine, as they say, they make 34% of the total tourist contribution. So these figures were not insignificant in these segments even though the primary debate did not go in that sense, but I don't think that each other should be harmed by sides and that one quality answer for a very high-quality law can be found here. This is in this sense by supporting the initiative and wanting it clearly and by participating as a Committee on Tourism, we are first and foremost solidarity with all those who think that it is for the sake of the law and for the sake of hunters that this goes to another reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29747	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29748	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. I join all those colleagues who have expressed their desire and will to go to second reading, because it seems to me that there are too many shortcomings and legal inconsistencies to accept it as such. It is interesting that about two weeks ago there was also a law on freshwater fishing that came from the same house and when it comes to public authorities, there was an interesting indiscipline from the same house. Here it is glorified and the Croatian Hunting Union is placed in the status of a small deity, while there the Croatian fishing alliance is quite different. It is precisely because I am inadmissible from the law, i.e. Article 8 of the Law, because it is also undeniable that the granting of public powers is granted exclusively by law, by any statutes of any individual, individual associations of citizens, such as in this case the Croatian Hunting Union. That is why I would ask to be explained if it can, because we have double jobs, we have jobs that will overlap, for example it is said that one of the public powers that the Croatian Hunting Union has is and keeping records of hunting weapons. I don't understand what the Ministry of the Interior is doing in that case, because the same job is being done on two levels, and it seems to me that it's perfectly normal to take care of weapons, so it's run by the Ministry of the Interior. Here, a colleague Markov said something for a little while, along with the other things dealing with the Hunting Union, it is that the Hunting Union is the bearer of the development of hunting tourism. I can understand that it is, but it can only be in the narrow part where it's exclusively about the breeding of game and the maintenance of game and everything else, and by the way, hunting tourism, I'm experiencing something broader in which we have one of those accommodation facilities, all the more that should be with this tourism. I can't understand and I don't understand that in the 21st century it's possible to define something like Article 11. It's a small door to introduce a new nationalization. It seems to me exactly when I was talking about inconsistencies that I hadn't noticed anything like that around the House of Fishermen and everyone else or maybe I'm wrong. However, the undisputed fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, hunters’ associations, i.e. some hunting societies, have come to their facilities in different ways. Credits have been raised, hunting homes and units of local self-government are owned in some areas, and in this way by one move of feathers, by raising hands in this Croatian, high Croatian Parliament, we will come to the conclusion that the Croatian Hunting Union is neither guilty nor obliged to come into possession of large assets. In doing so, we did not worry that in some hunting societies there were parts of them that were grown by savages. We didn't make sure when we talked and discussed state aids that such hunting societies that deal with and breeding savages don't get a boost for it. What is still unacceptable to me is Article 65. Article 65 speaks of the competences of the hunters. It seems to me that contrary to the Law of the Police that a hunter in doing his job will have the opportunity to determine the identity of any person who hunts for game or who is in the woods with the possibility of doing so. It's just unclear to me. I feel like I'm derivating the powers of the police. He can eventually determine whether he owns a person who is there who has some kind of card that he can verify the right to hunt, but who he is is simply not me. The same is true of the temporary confiscation of certain funds and everything else. Further when it comes to the definition of hunting grounds. Since I remember how difficult it was to establish hunting grounds back in the '90s when it was the first time, especially since our citizens are still experiencing, and especially those who own the country, are experiencing that someone will hunt on their land as an extremely difficult situation even though it is going on, here in the article 16th century when talking about how much hunting ground can be surface and everything else, as I recall earlier years, it was precise that the hunting ground is not being established but 300 meters from the borders of the settlement, or from the last houses. Here it is now defined only that it cannot be hunted 300 meters from the borders of houses which seems rather imprecise and bad to me, because the hunting ground cannot be within the borders of the settlement. As for Article 38, I think we have a little bit of illogicality here. Article 38 says the hunter will pay the money at the expense of the Croatian Hunting Union, while the county must establish hunting grounds, the county must also terminate the contract. Wouldn't it be simpler if someone who collects money did all the work and took responsibility for it? In this way, one will do the job and the other will simply collect the money. In doing so, I must stress that I do not agree that in Article 34, only 5% of the assets go as compensation to land owners. For example, here's a hunting ground of a thousand acres, there were auctions below, below 100 thousand kunas, auctioned for it. It turns out that more money will be spent given the depravity of the parcels we have, especially in northwestern Croatia, that more money will be spent to write out payments to be paid in the mail than it will benefit those country's owners. Shouldn't you put the possibility that eventually the county in that sense has that money, that it must return it, for example, to pay for the defense against the fight, means or some similar things that would go in favor of all the owners of the land. This way, I ask the question, which means 25% of the funds go to the local self-government unit for infrastructure development? What do they have to do with hunting grounds and land? Especially when there will be no infrastructure on that land. We talked today on the roads that we had problems with unclassified roads and everything else. Only if the legislator has some additional overexplanations about it. In Article 86, it is also unclear how landowners are bound by obligations. Among other things, the owner of the land for those of about 10, 20, 30 kuna he will receive for his own, for the compensation that someone is hunting on him, must without delay notify the hunting authority of the circumstances which may affect the taking of measures to prevent damages, etc., etc. I mean this is nonses, because that way, I'm asking you how some old lady from the hill-mount of the Varazdin County will spot the hunting officer information about what's going on on on her land. In the same way, I think it falls under another law, that Article 86 states that the owner of the land must remove agricultural crops until the prescribed agrotechnical deadline. Excuse me, gentlemen, that certainly doesn't belong to the Hunting Act. I don't think we know, he doesn't know what his right hand is doing, and it seems to me that this law is fully matured to go to another reading because I've only said some of the things that don't go and that don't comply with the rules of constitutional and legal law in the Republic of Croatia, but I'd like to hear too many explanations as to why it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29749	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Petar Mlinarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29750	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. In hunting, the Homeland War has left deep traces, hunting in Croatia has a long tradition and is well organized. One part of the game was in the back of the Homeland War, the other one fled to other neighbouring countries, fleeing from large detonations near their residence, then fires in the woods and so on. In particular, the game suffered in the frameworks of occupied areas of the Republic of Croatia. I cite an example in Vukovar, where two centuries-old forests, the forests of Đerga and the forest of Dubrava, were cut down, which were rich gamers of various species. The thick oaks were driven to Serbia, and most of the savages went to neighbouring Serbia's forests. The hunting companies in the mentioned areas have given their maximum effort and efforts for only 7 return years to restore the hunting fund, install game storage sites in winter conditions and a number of other benefits. Despite the efforts and hard work of improving the conditions of hunting societies, unfortunately even today, hunters, whose numbers are not small, are suffering from lagging mines. Just ten days ago, two hunters were killed in just seven days around Vinkovci. New legal solutions seek to introduce more order in hunting, starting with the very management of hunting grounds in breeding, protecting and hunting and trafficing game and its parts and the use of hunting weapons. It wants to encourage hunting tourism, revive hunting customs and tradition, strengthen hunting ethics and more effectively involve hunters and their associations in development, improve hunting as a significant economic branch of our country, and that is contained in editing the following issues. The jobs of breeding, hunting protection and game use, the concept of game and economic species are introduced by the Institute of the Rights of the Hunting, the right of the owner, the landowner, the emphasis on hunting rights, and the Croatian Hunting Union is given public authority to represent the authorities, the rights of hunting and hunting in the country and abroad and a number of other advantages. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29751	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a five-minute debate by the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29752	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here is not to repeat what my colleague Josipovic said on behalf of the SDP Club that does not support the adoption of this law, nor will we vote not to repeat here for generally known reasons. I would look back very briefly here at the end of something that the legislator of the Law felt was only to be regulated by Article 50 of the hundred articles of this Law, on a hunting economic basis. The hunting economic base is the basis for the adoption of such a law at all. Why? Because I would dare say on behalf of the SDP Club, where we believe they are hunting grounds, I think there is no doubt about it here in the Croatian Parliament that there is something along our Adriatic Sea, some of the greatest values that our country has and that our country has Republic of Croatia. Therefore, talking about the hunting economic base is a very sensitive issue, especially when it is leased or in a concession. I'm going to say in Article 50 that the hunting ground is being brought after giving the hunting ground in a concession or lease, I think it's one big absurd, it's like you've already allowed and handed over the thing, real estate, and the price if we agree or don't agree. Therefore, we believe that exactly the hunting economic base of how economies should be essential elements and later the basis for a concession contract, i.e. the lease. And why with great caution, it's time to talk. We know how, in the mental years, that, in part, the justification 92, 93, 95, was dominated by exactly the hunting grounds and that the richest hunting grounds were given in concessions and leases. So this law, or such a bill, should be to prevent such behavior. It is not known to the public that the concessionaire had just determined even to determine how far the hunting grounds would go. That it is thus an irrefutable fact that these boundaries of such a hunting ground extend to the very inscription of the village of Donji Lapac. So these are some devastating things and the question is now, how much with this Law, given the obligation and follow-up and such contracts, can, in this sense, act and correct such nebulous and dangerous things. How, then, do you set a price? Do any hunting areas where there are five, maybe some more than three bears get permission to kill five bears? Is hunting, please, what was going on right in these hunting sites that killed a savage by helicopter? These are exactly the situations that have been made possible so far. And that's why I think just by discussing this law, it's very important to take care of such things, and that's something that's being solved exactly the hunting economic base that has to be so to say a small constitution the basis for all the solutions in this law. And here I am, and the promoter mentions me between the others and the Međimurje County as an example of hunting management. However, there has just been mastered by this hunting grounds of a hunting society. Therefore, both domestic people and people involved in hunting societies should be stimulated in such a way. And those who appear as privates, as future concessionaries and tenants should certainly make sure that they take care of the breeding of game, not when all the tramps they give at all, that they simply come out of that concession or lease contract in a way that simply ceases to pay the rent, or concession. Therefore, they should be bound by them, but it is already the basis in this Law that all the damage, not only for the simple termination of the contract, but for all the damage it is responsible for since it did not behave in accordance with this particular policy of economic hunting, but which then gives us attention here and attention, to then be precise in this Law. So, I suggest it's a prelude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29753	Thank you. State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Economy, and Water Economy, Mr. Josip Bartoličić, short-term review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29754	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. So here's a lot of reading from these discussions, since the parent committee was also similar to that of today's and the parent committee supported that, or took the view that the law goes into second reading and the proposer agrees, so all the reasons based on this, we're going to give these suggestions in a second reading and I think that's all we're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29755	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Proposal of the Hunting Act. Debate, P.Z.E. Number 227. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for the Hunting Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 75 votes? Throw it out. Thank you. There's no quorum. Please, Mr. Djapic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29757	There are more deputies in the hall. Please establish the quorum. I'm asking you to repeat your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29758	Okay. We'll do it one more time, please get on with it. We can vote. Show me the score. 58 plus 14, 72, we don't have a quorum. Dear Representative Anto Djapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29759	Mr. President, I have no intention of expressing protests, because the protests are no longer worth expressing themselves clearly in this Croatian Assembly. We don't mind that part of the MPs to me on the left obviously obstructed the vote on the Hunting Law. Because otherwise, it's bad law. But it is clear to us that behind this Law there should be a vote on our proposal to withdraw from the project "Society" and "Adria" and the Research Commission on the handling of transcripts. We will consider HSP as first I will say, you will sooner or later have to vote on it and you will have to express your will about it, vote for, v or abstention. And until further notice, we believe that you voted against us in the HSP, so we will also act politically that you have also voted against the project of exiting "The Society" and "Adria" and against the Law on the Treatment of Transscriptions from the Office of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29760	Ladies and gentlemen, as we voted at the beginning of the conclusion, I am concluding the 11th session of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate you on the New Year's, and before that Christmas holidays and I'll see you at the session in January. Thank you very much. - Final proposal of the Maritime Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of the Law. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, Tourism, Local and Regional Self-Government. I would like the Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development of Branko Bačić to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29762	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! The government proposes in its final proposal the Maritime Code as clearly delivered to the benches. What is important to say in this second reading, or final proposal of the Maritime Code, is that it is practically a maritime constitution because it addresses almost entirely the issues of public maritime law, the safety of navigation, commercial societies. So, mostly to the greatest extent possible, it solves all the essential provisions affecting the sea. The maritime code is one of those laws that we comply with the legislation of the European Union or the legal property of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Together with the Maritime Code, we empower the Minister to adopt sub-legislative acts in order to continue to comply with the sub-legislative acts to bring this legal legislation into line with the European Union's regulation. It can be asked why the new Maritime Code is in force when the current Maritime Code is in force and what is substantially changing with it. Which he therefore significantly changes to adopt as a new Maritime Code. In the first instance, it should be said that this Maritime Code practically 75% of the existing articles and provisions of the existing Maritime Code are changing or are to the greatest extent possible and completely new provisions, thus imposing the need to adopt a new Maritime Code. The second important thing is that, in the meantime, since the adoption of the Maritime Code, a Law on maritime good and seaports has been passed, which has been a significant number of articles of the existing Maritime Code, and thus clearly does not concern matters regulated by the Maritime Code. The third very important thing why a new Maritime Code is adopted is the fact that, in the meantime, since the adoption of the Maritime Code, to date, the Republic of Croatia has become a member of a number of international conventions adopted at the level of an international maritime organisation and that the implementation of these ratified conventions is necessary in Croatian national legislation, and then the need for a new Maritime Code is also imposed. This Maritime Code as we propose it, therefore, in the final proposal of the Maritime Code, has practically adopted all these international conventions that primarily refer to the safety of navigation and pollution of the sea as well as the latest Convention on the Management of Ballast Waters and all those conventions that are adopted under the Paris Memorandum that treats the safety of navigation and control of the State Port, so they have also found application in our Maritime Code. Compared to the first reading of this Naval Code, we have introduced several new provisions that differ from the first reading. In fact, we have also introduced this Naval Code and the concept of yachts as a new water object, and the need is then imposed clearly to establish and establish a new register for yachts and the obligation to register for yachts, a register for boats and a register for ships, therefore, by electronic means. We have also regulated this Maritime Code and, in particular, in the part of the transitional and final provisions, the way in which we will continue to carry out charter activities in the Republic of Croatia, which are practically prevented by the provisions, we do not allow cabotage in the Republic of Croatia with yachts to take place in the same way as so far, and we prescribe that a new way of performing charter activities will take place so that the company carrying out charter activities is included in the trade register in the Republic of Croatia as a natural or legal person, that the ships carrying out the charter will be registered in the Croatian register of ships or yachts and that it will then have to see the Croatian flag. In view of certain difficulties that will arise in the registration and registration of those vessels in the Republic of Croatia, we left one transitional period until September 30th in which time all the provisions we are planning and planned in the Maritime Code and, in particular, the regulation on the arrival and stay of foreign yachts intended for sport and entertainment in the Republic of Croatia will therefore be in line with those provisions recorded in the Maritime Code and in that said regulation. We also adopted a proposal, unlike the first reading, on the basis of a proposal from the representatives' clubs in the debate after the first reading, that the permission to take foreign warships into the internal seawater in the Republic of Croatia should be given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but, in agreement with the proposal and opinion of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, the Minister of Defence and the state body responsible for nuclear security. Furthermore, we have found it very important for the final proposal of the Maritime Code to participate in all the general and regional organisations that contribute to the safety of navigation and protection against sea pollution, and in this sense we can already say that according to the current Maritime Code, and what has now been mentioned in this new text of the proposal since 1 December is practically in force, the Adriatic-oriented navigation system, i.e. the navigation schemes over which the system has identified specific highways that determine the courses of individual ships clearly in the northern part of the Adriatic, which makes it virtually impossible for collisions or serious accidents at sea. We have also accepted from the first reading of the suggestions given which relate to the obligation that ships and tankers, tankers and ships carrying dangerous loads cannot be freed from mandatory segregation and thus we have clearly succeeded in this proposal which speaks of the additional need for protection and safety of the Adriatic from pollution. What I certainly want to point out is that we wanted to establish this Maritime Code measures for the operations of Croatian shipowners, which, at the very least, we can say in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, are above the measures prescribed in most European states and I think that by adopting this Maritime Code, we will practically establish measures for Croatian shipmen who will have and who have the appropriate shipmen in Europe, so I would say in the world. Namely, by exempting the profit tax, by paying the profit tax not as it was said in the first reading if the profit retains and reinvests but in the final text of the proposal of the Maritime Code, we release the shipowners entirely from paying the profit tax regardless of what purpose that profit is intended for. Therefore, they are fully exempt from profit taxes. One of the reasons why many Croatian shipmen reached for the flags of the state of convenience was the fact that the creditors who would allow financial resources or loans to Croatian shipowners often had problems with the collection or even if a single shipowner did not comply with his obligation to contract with the creditor were introduced into the Croatian maritime code and the maritime mortgage institute, so on. the morgid which is almost entirely in line with the Aglosaxon legislation and thus enables the believer who gives financial resources or credit to a particular shipowner to make it easy... the ship or resolve its claim to the shipowner without unnecessary complexity which has often been through the resolution of the settlement of claims by the creditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the seamen, this is very important for the prominent, as far as the seamen are concerned, we in the final proposal of the Maritime Code have worked out the more quality of the proposal that we had in our first reading. I, then, and through the proposal of the Maritime Code in the first reading, said that until the second reading, we would hold several meetings with all participants in the drafting of the Maritime Code, as well as with the trade unions that also participated in the drafting of this Maritime Code proposal. We wanted to do two things, therefore, that, not only in the Law of the Sea, we allow Croatian shipmen to have the conditions of business in Croatia as they have on the international world market, the international market, but also in a certain way to show care for the seamen in a way that is possible clearly, in a certain way... introduce in Croatian pension and health legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, we have determined in the Law of the Sea that when the seaman enters the ship, so on arrival, the ship will sign a contract in writing with the employer and the obligation to apply that contract to the Pension and Health Insurance Office, as the employer will bear the obligation to account and pay for the doppinos under that contract. Furthermore, we have prescribed that the level of the basics for the payment of pension and health insurance will be prescribed by the Minister of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development and that this base should not be higher, or should be equal to the basics which the seafarer would pay in national navigation. So, regardless of the height, the height of the salary, that is, the fee resulting from the contract signed by the seaman with the employer. Also, we have also established and introduced a maritime supplement as an untaxable part of the income, and at what level will be prescribed by the Minister of Finance, a practical sailor on board will not almost pay income tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29763	Gentlemen and ladies, individual MPs, I, when I ring the bell, it's as if it's an incentive to create a bigger marble than the other way around, rather than a warning. Let's hear from the Secretary of State, it's about an important law, the Law of the Sea.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29764	The level of the maritime allowance as well as the way in which the maritime income tax is paid will be regulated by the Income Tax Regulation and I can already say that we are clearly in the construction of this Maritime Code together with the Ministry of Finance agreeing on most of the maritime allowance that would practically allow the largest part of the seafarers in international navigation not to pay income tax and the Regulation will also establish that the obligation to pay income taxes will be made once a year, following the fulfilment and submission of the tax application. What is still important to mention in the final proposal of the Maritime Code is that, with this Maritime Code, we have established a significant... Powers on the one hand and building inspection and inspections from the safety of navigation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] According to the existing solutions, any construction operations on the maritime well-being, and certainly largely illegal procedures, there was a coincidence of powers from one side of the building inspectors and from the other side of the inspectors from the port captains. We have now established with the Maritime Code the powers of the port captain's inspector, or the safety of navigation, which determines that the port captain's inspector is in charge of making a decision when a particular facility interferes with the safety of navigation. While the other branches of the maritime good remain in the jurisdiction of the building inspectors. We also found by the Maritime Code that there is no obligation to pass supplementary, outcome of supplementary powers by seamen after the completion of schooling. In fact, the situation is in the Republic of Croatia that often seafarers who end from sea school are obliged to board a series of additional vessels, a series of examinations that would give rise to additional powers, and in this way young seamen in the beginning would be burdened with large financial costs, which would often clearly represent significant ones, which were found to be very high amounts. In this way, it is practically resolved that schools, through the training of their seamen, are obliged to meet the conditions so that after schooling, a seaman would not be forced to take additional tests except clearly for the main powers which will then continue to be subject to high rank on board. And what is also very important to mention in the Maritime Code is that we have prescribed very high penalties for maritime offences and we have mainly prescribed high penalties for a violation relating to the pollution of the sea, to... which happen practically from the ship. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we signed the fine of one million kuna for a natural and legal person and for a responsible person, a natural and legal person, 200 thousand kuna. We believe that with the adoption, adoption of such a Maritime Code as is proposed in this final reading, that is, the final proposal has been practically implemented and prepared, I would say, all the legal conditions for Croatian shipmen, namely, the adoption of such a Maritime Code, to acquire all conditions such as those in other parts of the world mainly in Europe. And we believe that we have even taken a step forward and that the more favourable conditions now provided by this Naval Code that exist in the states... benefits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is clear that both with, and in the section relating to the regulation of conditions for Croatian seamen on Croatian ships, we went to make them less cost on the one hand based on pension and health insurance than there will be sailors who will sail on ships that are not registered in the Croatian register of ships. Here I would like for now for the introduction to this final bill this much, and clearly, later in the debate I will report on some proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29765	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 204(2). I will propose to the Rules of Procedure to supplement the agenda of this session with two points. This is the proposal for a law supplementing the Political Party Act with the Final Bill. Proposer of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, emergency procedure, first and second reading. Proposed law number 223. Secondly, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing an investigative fact-finding committee with regard to the guarantees issued by the creditors of the private shipbuilding company Viktor Lenac, d.d. Rijeka, Proposer of the Investigative Commission. Namely, they propose an extension of the deadline for their work. Any of the MPs have any objections to including any of these points in the agenda? There isn't. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on political parties with the Final Proposal should be voted on. Any of you objecting to an emergency procedure? There isn't. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established. To discuss whether, according to the rapporteurs, the Committee on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections, Tourism, Local and Branch Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29766	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First of all, about this entry of ships on atomic drive into the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. Although I won't spend too much of it, that's what I'm talking about. IDS is against it. We know, however, that there is no Mediterranean country whose territorial waters do not enter the ships on atomic drive. The Slovenians also rebelled, but joining NATO only eventually calmed down. Clearly, NATO is also not a Swedish table, so let's just choose what suits us. But we want one side, I don't know, a safety umbrella. We don't want NATO ships getting into our territorial waters. We want military help, we don't want the army going beyond the borders and so forth, but in those concerns, let most of this house worry now. The IDS is against the fact that ships on nuclear drive enter the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia as well as against the fact that the Croatian land forces are going, going to Iraq because we consider the US policy there to be a catastorphal, but going to third countries by the Croatian military under a clear hat or UN auspices as necessary because third ones came when Croatia needed most, in the period from 1991 to 1995 to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So that's how much now. Secondly, we agree with the Secretary of State that this law is a certain improvement in relation to the existing one. First of all, the most important changes to the Maritime Law are seen in the fact that shipowners operating in international navigation are now exempt from taxes on reinvested and retained profits. We will see if it will be able to bring the ship's ships back under the Croatian flag, which these ships have registered under the Panamanian and other flags. A new maritime mortgage institute is being introduced that is fully in line with English... measures to facilitate and regulate the operation of the shipowner in relation to the crew before the labour contract, the payment of contributions by the seamen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's prescribed to be the Institute of Maritime Adjunction. The law is then in line with all international conventions relating to the safety of ship and port navigation, the protection of seas against pollution, the management of ballast waters, the transport of passengers. It orders the introduction of an electronic register of ships, separates yachts as special vessels other than standard ships and boats and prohibits cabotage, performing charters of activities by vessels under a foreign flag, which we also consider to be good. The Code is fully in line with the Paris Memorandum of Port Control, it is in line with modern national rules such as the Executive Act, the Law on Property and other real rights and the Law on Infringements. The Code clearly defines the separate jurisdiction of the inspection of the safety of navigation from the construction inspection. And finally the infringement provisions are significantly tightened especially for sea pollution, which we consider a good solution as is also a good solution with regard to sewing when ships, tankers, enter the territorial waters of the Republic of Croatia. So much for these most important amendments to the law, however, I will focus solely on the union's views on this occasion. If we bear in mind that these views, all three partners around this law, means the union, the ministry or shipowners, that if we keep in mind that these views were consistent up to 99% as I was told by sailors in Zadar on 6.10.2004, the question is, what happened after that date? In particular, here I point out the views on maritime income tax and with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, and with the full support of the shipowners, it is also proposed to implement the amendments to the Law on Obligation Insurance Contribution. At a meeting in Zagreb, the trade unions said, on 13.10.192004, called by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications, some already agreed changes were opposed by the Ministry of Economy, Labour and crafts and the Ministry of Finance. Following the discussion of Ms Vera Babic from the Ministry of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship, she accepted almost all agreed amendments, and the others had only some formal remarks. She tried, however, to explain why the finance ministry is now a maritime supplement in absolute terms. In turn, representatives of the Ministry of Finance concluded that they would like to see the tax solution in the Income Tax Act behind us. It was adopted on Friday for 3, 4 days and will be shown in a way to propose the text of these two articles. However, this agreement and non-compliance with the Income Tax Act proposed by the amendments are the rights of a time bomb for sailors, primarily those working on ships owned by Croatian shipowners and ships under the Croatian flag. Why? The proposed Article 128 says: "The ship's crew member in international navigation is an obligation to account for and pay income taxes resulting from the reception of the ship's work in international navigation and contributions to all compulsory insurance." Secondly, "The application and check-in for the pension and health insurance of a crew member in international navigation shall be submitted by the employer or shipowner." And Article 129, paragraph 3 adds that "the employer is not obliged to pay taxes, taxes, contributions and other contributions to the payments of the crew members in international navigation." Gentlemen, that's just the point. So what happens now? First, the seaman must account for and pay monthly income tax advances without being sure if he will after the end of the working contract in... Time to be re-employed with the company. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The National Employment Service, the only one authorized to intervene in the employment of sailors, employs less than 1% of the total number of sailors in the Republic of Croatia, and last night I was just listening to a maritime show when I was coming to Zagreb to reach 27 if I'm not mistaken for thousands. Second, by applying to compulsory insurance, the seafarer is required to pay the monthly amount for compulsory pension insurance, health insurance, and for unemployment on a basis on which he has no or no influence either shipmen or seamen. So far, these standards have been passed in such a way that some cadets have earned 19% of their contributions to these bodies. The third application shall provide information on the basis that, by applying the legislation so far, the countries have in the largest number of cases of claims in the last 5 years, within that limitation period. Which is an isos p to the seafarer and more than 100,000 kunas. Why am I pointing this out? When we respect our commitment to bring the seamen back into the Croatian legislation system, we agreed that the companies did not matter, the tanker, the oil company, the boat and so on make up for 50% of the health insurance paid for the seafarers, thus introducing the seafarers into the mandatory health insurance system, we all experienced that these people were being charged 5 years back and today the amounts that in some cases exceeded 120 thousand kuna. It should be pointed out that the mariners did not use the national system because there was an obligation by the employer to pay all the costs of treatment. DESCRIPTION was also a category that was not required to pay for the fact that the party’s health insurance vehicle covered its full insurance and to a greater extent than the national one. And finally for the seamen as little as possible, but very important, for all Croatian tax collectors, these solutions are suitable for foreign shipmen, giving them practical subsidies at the level of social and income taxes. The intention was exactly the opposite, but here we see for ourselves that this bureaucratic haughtiness is simply boundless. The second thing to say about this law, the new maritime code as the meddling of a mammato with more than 1,000 articles was first passed in 1994, and I agree a good wind is brought into the sails of the ship. It's a general assessment of the entire maritime public. BUT the claims that it was a revolutionary law or, as the minister himself said, that now Croatia is going after becomes what the defect is, a maritime country I think, a pretentious and politically truly courageous grade. If only one legal act and mark and such volume could be thoroughly resuscitated, opportunities in the shipping institution under the allegations of industry, the Republic of Croatia would likely be exported from the Republic of Croatia like the Bible. The fact is that this fundamental law now gives, unlike the previous one, a more systematic, administratively similar practice that has long developed advanced maritime states, Europe and the world but is nevertheless the result of a compromise that will certainly open up a whole series of problems of bureaucratic reading, impreciseness, this legislative Texas. Whether this will ultimately result in the return of Croatian ships under the national flag, whether God will bring and which foreign ship under the Croatian flag will only show time. Therefore, among our shipmen who commend this Code, there is no excessive euphoria if the first man of the tanker's sailing is excluded, Mr. Mustac, who called the law a historical document. And he literally says that the proposal for a new code says for shippers must be a significant step forward and it also says that a great success is the fact that the government has accepted most of the proposals. This boatman. And that's what he's experiencing in the right position. However, I further point out once again that our unions operating within the maritime dam think, unfortunately, differently. It's also a good thing there's now a mortgage to the reputation of Anglo Saxon Morgid. Namely, all shipowners operating in international navigation have been released from paying reinvestment taxes for state profit, which will leave them more money for development or story for some black days, when the market is not in such an upcoming trend, which is at this point and the case. The new maritime mortgage, which provides better guarantees for critics, also favours more favourable financial arrangements. The assessment, however, by the resources minister that all the reasons for the domestic shipowners to screw the foreign flags are now erased, are too much and it might be good, I don't know if we can do it, but we can certainly refer the appeal, to try to invite all our shipping companies to observe the opportunity at which the Republic of Croatia is at some point. And when they already praise this legal order to return the ships under the flag of Croatia. If one third of the ship was to return under the Croatian flag, I think it would be one big win for the whole country. And I think with some appeal from this home we can try to send a message that they themselves are doing something for this country, not just for themselves. Although I also believe that one who successfully manages a branch company observes under which flag his ship sails, it does much for the Republic of Croatia. That's how much I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29767	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, the esteemed representative, Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29768	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr. Bacicu, State Secretary, Captain Marko Babic, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Croatia is undoubtedly a maritime country that has not adequately valorised the komapratino advantages given it a position as a maritime country through a complex of unfortunate circumstances. And regardless of the fact that there are unfortunate circumstances such as war, such as market breakdown, such as unfortunate privatisation and conversion by one model that is inappropriate. Which has destroyed quality Croatian shipbuilding Croatia clearly deserves a maritime code which in an adequate way, with one approach that is unique to advanced maritime countries, will regulate all issues related to public legal property and other aspects related to the exploitation of maritime ships. I, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, already pointed out in my first reading that the first Maritime Code was passed in 94. That he later suffered 3 cosmetics, more or less, the nature of the change and that in 2003 there was separation of maritime goods from the Maritime Code and the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports was passed and I estimate that it was wise to do so. And today, the State Secretary in his opening statement says that this is about 75% of the newspaper compared to the existing articles of the Maritime Code. It is less important whether it is 75% or less in a situation like this, and given the course of time since 94, given the need to implement international conventions in the Maritime Code, the necessity of anti-corruption in a certain sense and some conventions that are not ratified, but which are expected to be ratified, it was necessary to adopt a new Maritime Code. I said yes or disagree, anyway, and it doesn't matter. The work on the new Maritime Law began also by the former government, the current government continued. We have been through the first reading, we have come to a second reading and I am pleased and I express my satisfaction on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, which the Government, namely the Resort Ministry, has accepted and many suggestions and suggestions that I have made on behalf of the SDP Club, as well as my colleagues in the individual debate and have installed them in the Final Proposal of the Law that is before us today. I mean, first of all, the issue of piloting, which means professional ship-leading under pilot's supervision as one of the essential segments of the safety of navigation. The first reading also established the possibility for the minister to use the possibility to release certain categories of vessels, which is good, which is consistent with the usual European and world practice. However, it was not good that the release applied to both ship’s tankers and those carrying a dangerous burden, and that was what I also suggested in the debate to be introduced into the Final Proposal and it was introduced. Then, when it comes to cabotage, exclusively and exclusively right ships and yachts of the national flag, which is good, with me not belonging to those who have spoken of tens of thousands of foreign vessels who are not authorized to deal with the black charter in the Croatian Territorial Sea. I am sure from practice that it is not about such indicators, however, that there are and that it is primarily the right reserved for the national flag is not at all controversial and it is incorporated in this Code. I would plead to the Ministry of Resort, in the adoption of accompanying regulations, i.e. sublegal acts, to then apply the modern achievements that are now grown by the maritime countries of Europe. In addition, it was first mentioned in Article 1029 specifically by the Coast Guard, which is necessary for the Republic of Croatia as a maritime land, and we also proposed this with colleagues from HSP, and that the Coast Guard was a place in the Maritime Code and was found in Article 1029. Which gives us some assurance that the Ministry, or government, will form the Coast Guard within some of the deadlines that these speakers have been given. It's also good that it went in, we also talked about it, and training sailors, obtaining education through regular schooling procedure, without as little as possible, in fact as possible with as little additional evidence and additional exams, which requires great material costs and something that I can say out of practice that it's very good that the jurisdiction of the Construction Inspectorate of Hydrograding in port captains is divided because we are witnessing the degradation of the maritime goods. It was precisely because of the intertwination of jurisdiction and the construction inspection and other branches of inspection that went through a line of less resistance rather than even more intensely protecting the maritime well-being, running away from responsibility and leaving that responsibility to seven hydro-building inspectors deployed in port captains of which two and no or never had a filled job. One more thing I want to say and what the predecessor, colleague Cain, says, is that according to the expert public's assessment, it brings a favourable wind to the sails of the ship. In my view, too, the advantages of this Code are for shipowners to be exempt from profit taxes even when they buy other shipping companies, of course, which is also specified in Articles 428 and 429. A proposal, the final proposal of this Code. They are being released, and that should also be said, any giving for seamen other than clean or bare wages. There is an opportunity to conclude several consecutive work contracts for a certain period of time, and I would read in the subtext unlimitedly. The only obligation of the shipowner to the seamen, of course along with others, is to apply for health and pension insurance. And that's for sure now, are some of the elements that give boaters the right to look favorably at the Final Proposal of this Law. In addition, this is also highlighted during numerous presentations of the Maritime Code and at numerous assemblies, and what is also favourable for them is the introduction of an English mortgage system which will certainly lead to financial arrangements for shipowners being possible more favourable. And for that, and for all the positives that this Law carries unequivocally, I regret that the only category that, conditionally speaking, is not satisfied with the proposal for a solution is complete seamen. Yesterday he was St. Nicholas, the patron saint of the seamen who, with little delay, congratulate all the seamen. I did it yesterday at a press station in Pula, however, it is a pity that during these holiday days, the mariners are precisely dissatisfaction with the professional union on behalf of those same sailors, and in fact everything we do, we do for the sake of man, we do for our sailors who have successfully passed the tradition of Croatian sailors around the world. And I must say, I must say, this time, for the first time in the Maritime Code, as a lex specialis, the introduction of certain social provisions, which are socially and fiscally resolving the status of sailors, which is, in some ways, good because these provisions were not in the 1994 Maritime Code, and that is to be welcomed. However, at first reading, Mr. Secretary of State Bacic here literally said in part of his debate that the requirements that came from the professional union would be tripartite talks at the level of the ministry, shipowners and the trade union, and that they would try to find status solutions about the way the maritime union demands it. According to yesterday's statement by the trade union, the majority, mostly, were in line and agreed, however, that in the final draft of the laws, several had deviated from earlier promises. As I saw and had the opportunity to see in the assembly they had already appeared certain amendments to any individual representatives of any clubs, I also sent certain amendments. I think some of the solutions that are given in articles 128, 29, etc. which solves the status of seamen well, progress in relation to existing practices, and so far there has been nothing but the general laws. I believe that the ministry will also carefully examine these amendments, which are addressed and that there may be further improvements to the current situation, especially as regards the exemption of income tax for those who sail more than 183 days in international navigation. After all, I am not quoting it now, not to repeat, that I am not needlessly taking time in writing but it is given, so I think that it is possible to find a solution that will satisfy that category of our people, the seamen, for them, besides, and the laws and calls are being created, and I suggest that we find a solution that will satisfy the seamen as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29769	Thank you. The word has on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club a respected representative of Šima Prtnječa.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29770	Mr. Vice President, Secretary, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. After an almost two-hour discussion with the IMF of 50 articles here, it won't be easy to sum up all of this together, but I'll try to briefly recapitulate what the features of this law are, but what remains possibly dubious and may be solved in a slightly different way, and whether or not we can finally evaluate it together. Just a few premises about this law and generally now in this occasion Croatia, we all say it is a maritime land and in practice we all know that for a long time it has not been very much done by the seaman, as a result of this was the fact that most shipowners kept ships under foreign flags. The same difficult life of sailors, special categories, say "seven bread" or as many as you like, "ten crusts", we see in the last weeks only how many accidents of the world's maritime and working and living conditions point to the fact that this work and this life can't be compared to any work on land, which is more so than international conventions regulate in a completely different way because we hear opinions about why not as some construction worker or factory or something like that. I would just like to say in the introduction that this is a completely different area of work and that Croatia is, and if there are examples in which Croatia has long been globalised, it is just a sea. In the sea from the very beginning, it sails on world seas according to world rules and there is no application of labour Croatian legislation, it must be clear to all. Part of it can be applied but most of it must be conditions in the world that apply to all those who sail on those seas. And it is precisely because of this globalisation and what has followed us so far and all problems should be pointed out in, at the beginning of the basic goals of passing this law with one thought that the return of sea country and seafaring is generally, i.e. by creating conditions for the Croatian national flag, the return of ships under the Croatian flag. The second goal, therefore, is to create and improve the conditions of shipowners and seamen and seamen in general in the Croatian state. The second goal is also to comply with the European Community because we see such harmonisation as to regulate European countries in a different way than we have so far had the status of shipowners and seamen and, by this very application, we would like to coordinate and create similar conditions so that we can say that we are creating these conditions in advance. One of the main reasons why most ships and shipowners were on the world's seas is the world's flags, in fact, the conditions set by bankers in general outside Yugoslavia by the former, and after Croatia, because large banks are already considering how to ensure these risks in future times. We can't give details, but we've seen insurance and everything else that follows in our terms. Therefore, we must now start to create such safe conditions that world bankers can safely invest in Croatian shipping. Here's one of the so-called copies. The Basel Committee wants to create new conditions, and it talks about the banking conditions of investments in shipping. He wants to create completely new conditions and these new conditions actually define a risk management strategy. It's one of the many problems with mortgages, another problem is risk management and that's one of the reasons they insisted earlier on having to do business this way. Why the risks? Well precisely because, if the risks are increased then the price of capital has been increased so that Croatian shipmen and ships that were built for Croatian boaters, if the higher risks were generally higher interest rates and harder conditions of use of such funds. So absolutely, a direct causual relationship between such risks. Therefore, the question arises whether such a convention obliges us, that is, that declaration. In the end, it is not formally adopted, but most bankers are already using it in practice, which means that we are already subject to such an impact of different interest and different treatments. This is the third reason and third area why we should pass this law and therefore create investment in this sector, i.e. easier financing, also create conditions. We have already pointed out the conditions of insurance in the world, but here I want to point out, it seems to me, if I make a mistake, don't correct me right now, that Croatia passed the first insurance law in the world in 1568, and it seems to me that we have already been ahead of the world in the maritime area, and unfortunately later the conditions have changed and worsened. Here is one reason why we can also create conditions for easier return under the Croatian flag by creating conditions for insurance and then that shipowners can follow it easier. Further reasons, if we see the code, especially the shipowner's interest in the creation of terms of profit tax, income tax and later conditions that employees, i.e. seamen, must pay, I will, if of course, allow time to be shortened, try to shorten that investment. It is the European community that we have several countries here, but almost every country without exception protects maritime as a special branch and especially sensitive to global competition from the country registration itself, for the benefit of more favourable ship registration, so to all other competitive conditions they try to protect themselves and protect themselves in different ways. Different conditions are prescribed, and they are, as a rule, reduced to the influence of the state, the positive impact of the state on their business, so that if minimum income taxes are paid, they are minimal and symbolic but they return in other ways even more so that the country actually balances and essentially encourages this extremely significant sector. It encourages it for reasons, which say that the European Union, a country in total with the world by sea, transports about 90% of these countries' trade goods. As much as 60% almost between the European Union countries are transported through this maritime route, which also points to the exceptional importance and sensitivity of this area. And that's why it must be extremely important for us, too, for us to have that trend. In all these areas of tax, let's say fiscal burden and, on the other hand, now with sailors and their burdens trying to actually do business with a philosophy that prescribes a ceiling of tax benefits, a ceiling or whatever tax benefits we want, either in that segment towards the state, or that segment towards the maritime, or its obligations or employees. Here are a whole series of examples, for example, neighbouring Italy, such as those of its sailors, or as a state, which pays mandatory funds for its sailors, but only for its sailors, not for all the sailors who sail on their ships. So that's what the state does. We are aware that the Croatian state is weak at this time and that it cannot do it for them. But then we must look for a solution that will satisfy both Croatia's state and sailors and shipmen and all others and I hold that we can make a significant step forward. With regard to the creation of such conditions and the status of sailors in our country, he is, for the last time in our first reading, we have had different interpretations, so I want to inform you once again here, or the public even more, that we have three specific categories of seamen for us, which are seamen on foreigners, sailors on ships of our companies registered outside and sailors registered on our companies or ships sailing on the world seas. These are for example Atlantic navigation, Korčulanska, Lošinjska etc., and of these under foreign flags an example of tanker's navigation where most ships sail under a foreign flag and foreigners, so the owner of the companies... which are ship owners. There's a slight problem. And now the question is, how is it here and we've improved the level, how to create similar or same conditions for boaters and how to create similar or same conditions for seamen? That's where the problem arises. Because those sailors that Croatia has about 20 thousand on the world's fleet, they're not actually covered by this and they're kind of free at this point. The other thing is those sailors that sail on our ships that are registered under foreign flags in one section. And now this third category of shipyards that I introduced, that is to say, at the beginning of three, seems to me to be our shipyard or four, which are on our ships that sail the world's seas. Now this article 128 is just regulated by that area, the way it's exposed here. And it seems to me that's exactly what creates a certain doubt whether it's the best solution optimal or optimal what it was, I'll try briefly and comment on it. For this reason, and for those costs of training seamen to maintain high-quality naval personnel in us, officer, because today in the world there is a very strong competition of labour in the lower category of seamen, but the officer's staff shows that there is a large number of people missing in the world fleet and that this is quite a conuctarian activity. Therefore, we must also do all we can to keep those sailors on our ships. And, of course, there's that problem that labour competition is getting more and more through, and that will also apply to our fleet. That we won't be able to keep too much here, especially because they don't need work permits, visas don't need anything, but they board a boat and sail on the seas and finance under the conditions we have. About income tax and profit I repeat once again it seems to me that those categories that have been established, and in particular the release go into service, and there's a question, says why? Well, it's because the crises in the world's maritime world are extremely significant and they're cyclical, they last a long time, they take time. And that period when it comes, if it even creates a profit, it is reinvested and must be installed into a new fleet and I point out an example of a convention that prohibits the deployment of ships that drive current cargo with one... which we will soon have two. So, apart from that physical depreciation, there comes this moral depreciation that has this effect that has to be speeded up and amortised to restore the fleet. Well, in that sense, it is entirely justified that there is a release for that part of taxation, and if dividends are to be shared in consumption, then of course no one is against it. Now, this article 128, i.e. very briefly what is possible here in the sea, is the question, why do they say very recently these days, namely, why does the company have to report ships that are moving on board, and those who go to strangers don't have to report? Now, they're reporting an annual tax application that we others, not us, not me, not me, but I don't know who else has any other income, then also an annual application from which that part is then subdued. We heard the foreigners protecting, so the mandatory funds are being paid by most European countries, they're paying instead of these workers. We can't do that. And now there's a question. Do the workers protect you? I personally think, and here's the secretary as an idea, I don't know and let her think about it. In order to achieve a possible correction of two objectives in this area. The first goal is to significantly increase their maritime supplement from the present one somewhere I think 250 kuna. If it were to increase significantly and carry out the release, then that category of sailors we're talking about the most, and the union is actually talking about the most, then we could protect that with the basis of the annual application... The maritime code because it changes every year, so let it be resolved by another act, but let a higher rate of maritime supplement be established as soon as it is adopted. And a second base. I can ask the opposite question as well. They say the base should be slightly lower than the same categories of seamen on the Adriatic. Now they say right now, why don't they pay like Jadrolini? And I remind those who thus ask questions that the Croatian state through the budget is very subsidizing to Jadrolini, which means all these taxes and contributions, i.e. these fixed funds that are paid and much more than that. Therefore, if the state subsidizes it already for them from the budget, and cannot for these other seamen who sail on our ships on foreign flags, then let us at least try to help them in this way to make this base truly minimal and with that correction of the marine supplement, I hold that the same could be very solidly coordinated and co-ordinated. Or it's a second question, which advocates the part and the company, but also the seamen, that they be as free as the seamen on the outside, and then who reports at the end of the year. But I hold that with these two notes that I pointed out we could achieve that goal. And I finally believe that this Law is a significant shift in this area, so that we can reach final conditions for returning most shipowners and ships under the Croatian flag. It is not for the sake of too much help to have banks that have large investments in the sector that will continue to hold one part of the ships under foreign flags until all conditions are stabilised. And at the end of the problem of maritimeity, because it is often pointed out why what happened, it is countless reasons, I once again point out that I know quite well the problem that it is the unfortunate part that it has actually completed most Croatian sailors. And the others who were able to create the conditions and we managed to get out of his control, that was one of the reasons. So, in future time, let the state do what it can in this way and then we don't have to... in plural fear and I think both sailors and shipmen and everyone at sea will be pleased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29771	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative Miljenko Doric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29772	Mr. Vice President, distinguished government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I would first like to say that we were pleased in front of the HNS-PGS Club a few months ago when we received this bill twenty days before our first reading, which gave us a lot of space to consult our respected shipmen and sailors, and we could really be their representatives here. This time it happened that we got this very extensive material just a few days before the second reading and you have to understand that it certainly wasn't good and that I was personally in great pain because I wanted the same boaters, the same people to contact that and through the second reading give me advice on what I should say here. However, I must thank them. They were really here on Sunday and yesterday in Split and their colleague Dumanic, Captain Dumanic from Rijeka, and they all really went through this code in detail and I would like to say here that what I am going to say in this section applies exclusively to their remarks and we will, here later will colleague Lesar speak and counterpart Cacic has already said on the board some of the views of our club. What I'm saying here, I repeat, exclusively refers to the position of those shipmen that we have consulted in connection with this very, very important code, and I agree with the Secretary of State, it's practically the constitution of our seamen. Look, they're a little disappointed that in the second reading they noticed that very few of their remarks they made and I personally handed them over to the minister when he was at the first reading was present, so I'm going to repeat some of their demands. I think they're very logical and I'm going to try to explain why our club is asking you to seriously reconsider these proposals and try to install them into the text of the code itself. Look, none of the shipmen are against seizing, though. In particular, everyone insists on seizing when transporting dangerous or harmful substances. However, when it comes to segregation in Article 70(3), where only an exceptional minister is able to authorise ships of less than 2,000 tonnes to submit an appropriate examination instead of seizing, and thus to resuscitate that instrument of segregation. Then we see clearly now that this remains and the shipowners propose to essentially extend jurisdiction, to have confidence, to extend the possibilities of the minister and that he may even approve that the commander and the larger ship is allowed to pass the appropriate exam and thus to do so, that safety factor and through that exam, rather than by mandatory sequestering. Why? Because climbing is not free, we know how much it costs for shipowners who regularly agree to our ports on an annual basis is a substantial amount of money. And it should clearly attract rather than drive the shipowners to a port where he will be able to use this exam clearly instead of the carpenter, and thus significantly cheaper. Therefore, shipowners suggest, let us allow the minister to have wider authority and that he may decide that in a given case and a ship of more than 2,000 tonnes, his commander is allowed to pass the exam. Then, here we go to this often mentioned article 128. It concerns the clear application and check-out of pension and health insurance where we know that here in the proposal of this Code states that these contributions are paid by the seafarer. It seems to me that the Navy and shipmen's union have agreed, and nothing is disputed about that. However, the question is who should report them or log them out. The shipowner proposes to be a seaman, not a shipowner, because according to the pension law, the person who pays the contribution is obliged to execute and report, so that, consistent with that law, the application should be carried out by the seaman himself. I did this morning seem to see that even by the Maritime Unions they agree with it, you will be able to check it easily and it seems to me to be given an improvement and a bill of law in that segment. The third proposal, which goes towards you and us Assembly representatives, refers to the damage that a crew member suffers at work or in relation to work on board due to the absence of conditions for safe operation. This is Article 145. In fact, there is only a black and white technique in the current proposal for this article. Namely, if it is proven that the seaman is guilty and in the least, then clearly he will not receive any compensation. However, shipowners suggest that we actually have to behave differently here, that since the whole project is based on equating our maritime and legal regulations with world standards, we should also think about shared responsibility as many European countries and the United States do. strict responsibilities or "strict laibility" where the shipowner responds but the fee is reduced by shared responsibility, or as they call it... negligenes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic reason lies that the shipowner is responsible for the safety of the seafarer and the seafarer must use professional attention. Therefore, they propose to be introduced and I have given the amendment in writing and I will ask you to really see that in this way an attempt is essentially to improve the text of Article 145(3) and to allow a crew member to partially obtain damage proportional to the right share of his responsibility in this rather than solely by black and white technique. The fourth objection that shipowners have concerns Article 428(2). Namely, this is about the definition of "ship in international navigation" and the shipowners suggest, namely, why you even deviated from this definition that you had in the first reading. They were very pleased with it and now we have essentially changed the definition of a ship in international navigation. And they beg and seek nothing but to return the text that was in the proposal of the first reading. Finally, the final request of the shipowner shall be made at the expense of Article 429 where it proposes that two more paragraphs 4 and 5 be added to the proposal that I do not read here in full because you will receive colleagues and colleagues on the benches of the amendment and the applicant as well. In fact, shipowners want to warn us that unless a release from customs and VAT is established for spare parts and services on ships considered to be ships in international navigation of domestic shipyards will practically lose the jobs of repairing domestic ships in international navigation in their shipyards. It is therefore clear in paragraphs 4 and 5 that they need to be respected in respect of VAT, customs and on imports of ships, and on equipment, and on spare parts as well as on services. Here, these would be our proposals in front of the shipowners, of course, and I hope that the promoter will respect them in this way and adopt the proposals of those who live by this law of 27 thousand sailors on our own and unfortunately even more on foreign ships and our shipowners are very eager to expect such a code and I think that it will significantly improve their work in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29773	Thank you. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 207(2) of the Rules of Procedure, it is time to apply for an individual hearing for 10 minutes. The word on behalf of the HSS Club has an esteemed representative, Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29774	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. As some call it, the maritime constitution, of course, resembles the marine land. But clearly neither the name nor its appointment by the maritime constitution will make a significant contribution to the fact that we are a maritime country and what resources and how much we have used and how clearly and how it has always been, which are the reasons and whether or not I will be able to make new and new maritime laws that should have been passed in view of the fact that a significant part of the matter has been moved from the former Maritime Code to the new Law. But clearly and given the need to regulate, above all, the safety of navigation, port surveillance, the protection of the Adriatic Sea, the relations between seamen and those new activities that they have found in practice that they will underline and put into the framework of this Maritime Code. Of course, at the very beginning, I want to say, there are no colleagues from Prtvenjače, he said that, that he would explain some articles to the public and direct the public, unfortunately, and I think that it is not good, the public does not participate and has no opportunity to look, listen and also learn about the good proposal offered by this Maritime Code. You see from the media that often in different ways that are once based on their own understanding of interest and sometimes on the deluded interpretation of something that they want to interpret so often creates a false image. I think it was absolutely appropriate to transfer the debate on the Maritime Code or on the maritime constitution to the Croatian public and to the media, and that all those who want to hear, and there is a lot of those who want to hear what is being debated here today, how the differences between the first reading of this bill, which is contained in the final proposal of the law, unfortunately, that part of the information of our public will not be complete and thus, of course, the wrong message is sent. The wrong message is that we do not adhere to our maritime constitution, that is, our relationship to the seafaring absolutely results in the real state and the conditions that we have. But to go back to the final bill itself. I also said at first reading that we were satisfied with the proposed structure on which the Law was presented in the first reading, clearly giving a whole series of proposals and remarks from individual structures and groups that are within the Maritime Code how to strengthen or improve or different set individual positions. Is there enough debate here on all segments, especially as the colleague said that people are the most important in each law and so on, thinking clearly about the seamen and their particular understanding that this Law should have made their key place stronger, because as key participants of this law and every law, it was clear that it was necessary to place their role more strongly in this matter more clearly by alluding to what Mr Prtvenjač said as well as in Jadrolinija as a state monopoliest who, of course, represented in a traditional and historical sense a truly Croatian giant who, within the Adriatic, organized transport was in some way a syntagma of connecting the island, coast, certain cities, but clearly all of this, with strong support from the state. It is this strong support of the state that has partly lagged behind in our own, our sailors who are absolutely whatever the situation in which we are in, who are looking for stronger support precisely for their legal status, thinking clearly about pension, health insurance and everything that burdens anyone who does not have a very secure permanent job and permanent service. In addition, I have to say about certain misunderstandings and the doubts that have arisen, as regards how the current Law regulated vessels, boats, especially those up to 12 meters, and how the current still has up to 15 gross registrations, that calculation is somewhat complicated, I would now not want to fully represent him but about 12 meters... in nature almost 13, 13.5 meters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And those types of vessels, boats, they weren't under the Croatian register. So it wasn't applied to them, so-called. He's collecting a tariff. They absolutely solved their obligations within the port captainies, it was a simpler procedure, cheaper and absolutely created one practice, one courtesy that this way, such a way of controlling is good. The new bill clearly provides that boats are exclusively those that do not cross 12 metres regardless of the registration tones. Most of those boats that were built in our country were used for these or those purposes, for rent or something else, between 12 and 13 meters, and according to some standards so far, they could have 4 - 6 beds and unfortunately the new bill was depriving them part of it. But the central problem with this problem, I hold that it is in the position and role of regulators, I mean the Croatian ship register. It is, of course, a monopoly regulator that is not known to the European Union countries that clearly have a liberalised this relationship and is now asking one key question that can be asked in some other options that we have and have decided on during this year, which is whether it is helping the state monopolies in this case, the Croatian ship register whether it is being helped in a way that remains in a position where it is marketable and concubinely not having efficiency but we are strengthening it by additional measures and we are trying to actually do what is impossible. We, in fact, are not recognised or is a member of this world association for reasons that there are not enough gross register tones. I don't know exactly if it's some 4 million that's wanted or not. But in any case, in this way, I don't think we're going to get past what's unquestionably disappeared from the ship's register and we know that large companies have disappeared from Croatia's line and, in addition, by losing these gross registration tones, the possibility of the Croatian ship register being an equal partner with other regulators located in other countries has been lost. And of course it burdens the whole thing. He burdens the whole thing so he had paradoxes that both floaters or Pontonic, Pontonic bonds that are located somewhere should have consent and are located in the system of the Croatian Register of Ships, the most common floaters. I don't think it will help at the level at which the Croatian Register of Ships will reach its position to become a member of the international association. But that's not the worst part. I think the worst fact is that by entering the European Union, we will have to liberalise that market. There will therefore come competition in one way or another. It simply won't, and whether it might be better to prepare the other regulators that can be prepared at this time within the framework of domestic legislation and economy, and thus prepare immediately for a strong conukture that will follow by entering the European Union or waiting and keeping its head in the sand and say when it comes, then we will be ready. Of course we won't be ready. The same thing is the role of Jadrolinia. We have a monopoliest who resists all. From private companies reporting in a way that should retain its leading role. Is this aid to Jadrolinia or is it in three years when that market is liberalized exactly the opposite, that we will not have ready domestic players who will be able to jump into that space and deal equally with world competition in domestic transport. These are, of course, entirely principled doubts and dilemmas that perhaps this code cannot be fully solved. But of course he's very important. What is the relationship that private shipmen have on this proposal and on this law? Of course, they absolutely do not support that a foreign ship, yachts and boats on their request, if there is an economic interest, can ensure that they carry out their activities. They clearly do not object if it is an activity and if such a job cannot be done by any of the Croatian domestic potentials. The fact that he was now in, on Peljesac where he needed a research ship that Croatia does not have. Of course it's understandable and so on. But they fear that foreign ships will be in a privileged position. And this is another quite principled topic of how our legislation in this, in this transitional period where it can be affected, in which it can be challenged, in which an exemption can be sought to strengthen the domestic economy, how to prepare it for future competition, and how our domestic shipmen who rightly say that they are the only one, the only of all entities that are in any way not in this Maritime Code, even if they are given that position that others have. Why do they say that? Well, because, of course, they are always limited by the number of passengers, so they don't care about the length or gross registration tones. The number of passengers is what makes them think that unfortunately they must be within the Croatian Register of Ships, that they must have regulations and that they must pay the price that they foresee. Clearly then these shipmen say they too will become yachts as they are now said in the new code so that they too will try to settle in that order. All these doubts, this law, according to us at the HSS Club, opened them up well, set them up well. We will put on certain amendments that we would need to regulate relations more evenly among all others. These principles, these principles, I believe, can be used for sublegal acts, for a better understanding that our task is no matter how much we wish to prepare our country in a legislative sense to be in the European Union, but that it is a sad task to prepare our domestic economies and participants within the Croatian sector for them to be better prepared. And the law and its preparation and its alignment are actually less important because what, for it has time and it is more important to create the preconditions that when we have already brought it, and we have well come up with a proposal that it cannot be with a foreign ship, with a foreign flag to realize the activity in, on the Croatian Adriatic. That's absolutely good, and since we've already got it, on that good lead, I think we should do new steps that may seem relatively painful right now, but believe me in a year, two when they're unconditionally forced to give different concessions than we're giving them today will be too painful. That's why I have to say that we at the HSS Club, given the amendments we're going to make that I believe are absolutely acceptable, will support this Maritime Code proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29775	Thank you. The word is on behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen, how many of you are left here, a few of you, I'm really going to say this for those of you who are here, but also for the secretary of the Marine Union who's been following us from the gallery, this is exactly this: very lucky we didn't discuss this yesterday on St. Nicholas's Day, but to discuss today, one day behind St. Nicholas. Why all the luck? Because I would really say that on St. Nicholas's Day, the protector of all sailors we debated without public presence, without television cameras. Although all the daily newspapers today announced the transfer of Parliaments from 3 to 5 and this session of the Assembly, which was to be discussed and in the second reading of this Law of the Sea, unfortunately I can inform you of all of you who are still here and who do not know it clearly, there was no transfer of the Croatian Parliament from 3 to 5. From 3 to 5 despite this announcement in fact on Croatian television there were two, two replayed episodes of soap opera. One was so-called. Lugarins in Falkena and another replayed episode of Startrack or Star Trek. It is clearly believed that this people and the citizens of this country are more interested in the Star Trek than in the maritime pathways. However, in spite of all this, I tell me a completely unreasonable and unclear reason, so it happened that today our Croatian television viewers are enriched by two re-enacted episodes of Lugarnica and Star Trek. In any case, they have been suspended for this debate over the Maritime Code, which has already been said by many colleagues, my predecessors have said something that is considered a maritime constitution, and unfortunately by the sea constitution of a sea country which we, for ourselves, always claim to be a maritime country. If we are a maritime country and we are making one maritime code, then the issue of the Coast Guard would certainly and necessarily have to be resolved in that code. Unfortunately, it's not like that. In fact, we are a country, not only a maritime country, but also a country that has recently, and you know this, for more than 2 years now, been in fact having this debate in the Croatian public in the Croatian Parliament, expanding its jurisdiction at sea to so-called. the economic belt or how my euphemism called on one so-called. ecological fishing zone. It's certainly just euphemism for the economic belt. However, on the third day of this year, euphemism has come into effect, so an ecological fishing zone, but our coast guard has not been defined, despite the fact that the enlargement of jurisdiction at sea has taken effect by the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this jurisdiction at sea does not apply to European Union countries. But we hope that one day they will also be applied to them. Maybe even before we join the European Union I think maybe even the moment the Croatian Party of Rights takes part in the decision. However, regardless of what we can't decide on the concept of this Coast Guard, the Naval Code would have to define the concept of the Coast Guard, and it would have to contain specifics that would form a coast guard. We're at the HSPa Club first of all inclined to apply what's called the so-called "HSPa." The Norwegian model, but we wouldn't mind, we suggested it when we first read it, so we actually introduced some kind. In fact, to introduce a Danish model in which, in Denmark, therefore, the Navy's mission in Denmark would be to the coast of the guard. In peacetime. So the Navy in peacetime is a coast guard. It's her job. to be a coast guard. On the contrary, we will likely resort to the discovery of hot water again, so we will actually turn to something that was seen from all the debates from the ruling party that I would call Colloquial by arming port captains. So we'll arm the ships of port captains so they'll represent themselves and join the Coast Guard. So we'll get a third echelon of armed ships in fact, which is one of the MUPA ships that will be involved in the coast guard, the other are ships of the Navy that will not join the coast guard but will actually patrol the territorial waters. And third, we'll get so-called armed ships of port captains who should do it. Instead, we propose and suggest that the Navy be the backbone of the coast guard again that it, in fact, is its duty to defend and in a certain way represent interests in this extended jurisdiction in the economic belt, and let the police actually have her jurisdiction as territorial and coastal sea. Of course, regardless of whether it was a Norwegian model or a Danish model, we again note at the HSP Club that we plead to choose one model that has been confirmed on the ground, Denmark is a country of some minor size than Croatia, which many usually escape from sight and they know how to tell me as a small country. So Denmark is smaller than Croatia. And there are 22 other European countries that are less than Croatia. It's not Luxembourg or San Marino, it's quite a serious country, like Denmark. On the other hand, Denmark is smaller even by the number of inhabitants, and we often call on an Danish economic model, so I don't know why we wouldn't accept a coast guard model such as Denmark and one such maritime country as Norway, or something between it, but we're going to start to discover warm water, and I'd say the three coast guard components that we would have to put together in quite one way that it wasn't done anywhere in the world. Furthermore, when we're talking about this and we've recently discussed the law on rescue at sea and, in fact, the whole concept of the rescue law, I'm going to remind you here that our proposal was that this particular segment of the Coast Guard was actually made up of a shipship that would be some sort of voluntary or voluntary reserve for rescue at sea. And they would enter the Coast Guard. It's very simple we have a lot of private fishing boats and everything else that would very much like to join that reserve Coast Guard. So I'm not overexploiting, as such a system is joined by, say, voluntary fire companies. You know that we have certainly our units of fire but there are also voluntary fire companies that very often actually make an immeasurable contribution and, in some cases, completely rescue from disaster when it comes to fire. A similar matter would be applied here in the coast guard or in the rescue at sea. We could even create a discination to distinguish three types of such voluntary reserve coastal guards that would vary according to the flames, or by the flags on the mast depending on whether they want to report for a generous participation whether it is an ecological threat whether it is a rescue, a people at sea, or whether it is about catching fishermen. In any case, the different flames on their masts would immediately make it clear to everyone that they too are watching the sea, because they must live up to it. And that's why they'd be very happy to do that. Be assured of that. Furthermore, while we are already in flames, then only one small shift to the flag that grows numbers in our waters, we in HSP hold that cabotage can only be under the Croatian flag, and we have said it countless times, we will not give it up. Because we are convinced that when it comes to the demonopolisation of sea transport in Croatia that it will be packed by foreign shipowners, who would then have to register a ship in Croatia and have to pay taxes in the Croatian state. For example, you now have a case of Malta and Cyprus entering the European Union, so far most of the ships are ships under their flags. Why? Because they were so-called countries. the benefits of the land from the flags of convenience. I see absolutely no reason for Croatia to end negotiations to join the European Union, in fact it does not become a country with a flag of convenience. And that instead of making our ship's flags of Cyprus, Malta and Liberia to actually foreign ships winding Croatia's flags. It is particularly interesting when you consider the fact that 10% that this Croatian state gives 10% of the shipbuilding subsidies around, and that in fact these ships sail under a foreign flag. So I wonder who we're actually giving subsidies to. Subsidies are given to shipmen sailing under another's flag instead of being vice versa. That other people's ships sail under our flag and that's what we get our taxes out of it. But it's all a matter of policy concept, so if you want commitment to how we actually experience the sea. Do we see it as another resource that we can sell out more or less, cheaper or more expensive, or experience as one potential and one resource that we actually want to live on. As for, therefore, this commitment here fits first and foremost this problem of yachts, namely the fact that about 15 thousand yachts sail in the Adriatic in the summer, and perhaps more, especially if you consider so-called yachts. a black charter, but we can freely say that on these yachts in the Adriatic for 4 months there are about half a million people, and another 50,000 of them are safe in the black charter that no one knows about them and that they actually don't contribute to this country's budget in any way. In any case, overcrowding and pollution at sea, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be solved and cannot be solved by building marinas in every bay but can only be solved so that every yacht with the flag of Croatia has a vignette, or flame that is identified, and then it is very, very easy with the help of the Internet to find out whether that yacht had 3 different crews in the last 3 weeks, so if that is the case then it is quite clear that it is a black charter and that it is necessary to immediately light up the fat penalty. In particular, I would like to say some things that we did not say in the first reading, and it is actually about the fact that there is a problem in Croatian ports. In fact, the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports addresses these issues of ports, and it is a law that should apply to ports. However, what should be made clear and loud to this Maritime Code is that we do not want the ports to become parking for the yachts of European Union countries, but rather that we want to have cargo ports, fishing ports, ferry ports, ports, etc., ports that will allow the island to communicate with the island, etc. You can't go from Hvar to Brač today in any way. You can go to Split and then from Split again to Brac. At the time of Petar Hektorović you could come from Hvar to Brac, but today you can't. Of the 6,000 miles of our coast, we only have 2.7 kilometers of fishing ports. So, we're building a fishing fleet, we've opened a tender for the construction of fishing vessels...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29777	It's time, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29778	Here, I'm done, I'm done. And we're building a fishing fleet, we're launching a tender for fishing vessels that we're going to build for that fishing fleet, and we're not building or planning a Maritime Code to build fishing ports or buying fish centres. So, I repeat again for the end. The maritime constitution, this really needs to be called the Maritime Code and it is thus experienced because Croatia must live on the sea and Croatia should live on the sea. However, here...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29779	I'm asking you to finish because the time is up and I'm thanking you. Two minutes' time's up. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29780	...will probably give me St. Nicholas since there's no transmission, that should say that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29781	Mr. Representative, I'm asking you to finish your presentation. Time's been up for two and a half minutes. You can't talk any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29782	Here, now we've spent another 20 seconds...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29783	I thank you for your words...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29784	...and I could have said the closing sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29785	You've already said a few final sentences, you can't talk anymore. I've extended two and a half minutes for you, and the word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. I thank you. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But I can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The Rules of Procedure say this. Thank you. Here you go. On behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29786	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to say here after the clubs gave their reasons about the Maritime Code, the final proposal of the Maritime Code, to say a few things. In fact, out of the total of a thousand and 32 articles, how many of these are available in this proposal of the Maritime Code, we have seen practically that the biggest challenge concerns only 2 articles, which relate to the resolution of the work-social rights of sailors in shipping. I must say, first of all, that this is the first time the Maritime Code has even regulated the issue of labour social law in its provisions, and so far this has not been settled by the Maritime Code. What matters is what I have to say, three things. Yes, with the Naval Code, we wanted to settle three very important matters. The first is to return Croatian ships of Croatian shipowners, Croatian shipowners under the Croatian flag. It was the first intensities of the Naval Code. In addition to Croatian shipowners under the Croatian legal system, we wanted to include Croatian employers who are employed by workers on Croatian ships in the Croatian legal system. And the third thing we wanted was to return Croatian sailors to Croatian labour and social law. And it is precisely with this proposal of the Maritime Code and we do and we hold that it is practical with this proposal of the Maritime Code that is more favourable to the legal environment, it will be for Croatian sailors who sail on Croatian ships, under the Croatian flag and whose employer is a Croatian legal person. It's the terms of a Croatian seaman who sails on a foreign ship, a foreign employer. In fact, Mr. Prvenja said before that there are three categories of Croatian seamen. One category of Croatian sailors is those who sail in cabotage, so they sail in the domestic national fleet, for example, Jadrolinija or other national shipmen who sail in cabotage. Another group of sailors are those sailors who sail on Croatian ships with the Croatian flag, whose employers are generally over 95% registered outside the Republic of Croatia and are practically employers of Croatian sailors, on Croatian ships with the Croatian flag, for example, Atlantic navigation. The third group of Croatian sailors is also the one who sails on foreign ships, foreign shipowners and whose employers are clearly foreign legal persons. We will, with the proposal that the employer who, under these provisions of the Maritime Code can be and is recommended to be a Croatian legal person, allow the employer first to enter into a contract of work, can sign more contracts together and, on the basis of the contract of work, report the seafarer. After that, the seafarer is obliged to pay pension and health insurance towards the level of the basics which is for the first time this Maritime Code and for the first time in the current working and social practice in the Republic of Croatia and the legislation in the Republic of Croatia is determined by the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, making sure that this base is not higher than the base paid by the seamen who sail with domestic shipmen, i.e. domestic or national navigation. In this way, regardless of the amount of compensation that the seafarer contracts with the shipowner, his salary which is significantly higher than that of our seamen who sail for example on the "Adriatic" or other domestic shipmen sailing in national navigation, will pay only that amount as if he is sailing in domestic navigation. So not as much as he agreed on the contract of work, but as much as the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development has prescribed. And certainly that amount will be less than would be paid by a seaman who hunts on a foreign ship and who in Croatian legislation is an independent taxpayer of tax and contribution. In this way, he will be more favourable and less likely to pay than the same fellow who sails on a foreign ship with a foreign employer. And the third thing that is very important to the seamen is the fact that now with the Maritime Code, and we are already aware that, assuming that we will pass the Maritime Code before the New Year, we will go into adoption, or with the Ministry of Finance, we have agreed to establish a maritime supplement that will allow the seaman first to make a once-a-year billing on the basis of the income tax application and pay him if he should pay him in the light of the untaxable part of the income tax that will be recognised as a maritime supplement. We believe that, after one day on board, we will be such a maritime supplement that most of the seamen, or perhaps only the highest part of the officer's staff on board will be paid, paid for a small part of the marine supplement. The third thing to be, from which opposition between unions and the ministry can be read, is the union's proposal that non-members stay outside the country for more than 183 days not be taxpayers to pay income tax. This simply through the Maritime Code and through existing legislation cannot be resolved because this provision of income tax applies to persons of the Republic of Croatia working outside the Republic of Croatia and which are then for more than 183 days in the Republic of Croatia taxpayers in the country, in the country in which they earn income. And there would be no double taxation to pay income tax in the country where he works and then in Croatia. Practically if he is more than 183 days outside Croatia he is exempt from paying income taxes. Which, by certain means, does not apply to seamen. But in order not to pay the maritime supplement, they say, income tax, it is prescribed that, practically, with a maritime supplement, it will be free of income tax payments. These are the reasons for which we claim, and we are firmly on the point that the Croatian seaman who is on the Croatian ship with the Croatian employer who is registered in the Trade Register in the Republic of Croatia will have more favourable conditions than his fellow seaman who sails on a foreign ship, under the flag and employed by a foreign employer. And just one more very important thing to point out. Who's going to report a work contract? Is it an employer or a sailor? In a regulated legal state where there is a tax administration in which the books of each taxpayer are available, we do not see any company as to what reason it would be for the conclusion of a contract of employment between a legal person and a business operator to report that contract to an employer or an employer. Unless, at the beginning, we don't think the builder of that labor contract is going to show the tax administration. There is no valid reason to dispute the seafarer's obligation to report a work contract. I don't really see what that would mean for him to report, not the other side of that contract, and that's the employer. Because one and the other we assume in good faith that they are obliged to present that labor contract. Because then the question can be asked whether, perhaps, if the employer of the labor contract does not show that it will not then be shown as part of the income achieved based on such an employment contract. So, the comments that have been made so far are, according to us, below the proposal proposed by the Ministry of the Sea, that is, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and exactly what they are, in favour of the Croatian ships of Croatian employers, which is very important to apply such provisions of the Maritime Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29787	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29788	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, and I welcome the representatives of the naval union who are following this debate. And Mr. Secretary of State, even though this law is discussed shortly after, and it's all a pixel, what I'm going to say in my debate, I'm only two articles of the law, I'm going to say, Article 128, 129, instead of a gift in St. Nicholas's stocking and boot, you gave this to sailors, Croatian sailors who sail in international navigation instead of a gift in a boot. They got this and I'll try to explain it. Firstly, in the existing legislation and the Maritime Code, the issue of the social and tax fiscal system of Croatian seamen on board ships in international navigation was not resolved.’ You're right when you say that right now he's trying to get rid of it in this law. However, you forgot the fact that somewhere around 85% of Croatian sailors in international navigation are exposed to the rules of the international labour market from conditions to prices, and that the Croatian Employment Service intervenes in the employment of Croatian sailors in a way that employs a Croatian seafarer every 714 years. For 714 years, one is employed when you take all the sailors who sail in international navigation, domestic and foreign ships that are employed by the intervention of our state agency. It is also a fact that Croatian sailors in international navigation are employed by intermediating agents who especially charge for it and not less than cheaply, but often this price of intervention depends on the contracted gross wages in dollars. And of course that's what sailors pay for, not the Croatian state. You also, Mr. Secretary of State, know that the Croatian Naval Union has tried to resolve both in the first and second reading of the five key problems that concern them. First, sailors who sail during the calendar year for more than 183 days, and I don't have to explain to you why 183 days, on ships in international navigation, are not obliged to register and pay taxes on revenues made in international navigation. Their second request. A maritime supplement which is an existing category of tax-free income and taxation should be determined in an absolute amount of the pre-known amount. Third. Seafarers report taxes at the end of the year and thus fulfil the rights and obligations of the Income Tax Act. Fourthly, the basis for determining all mandatory social benefits shall be adopted either tripartitely or ultimately on a proposal from the Minister of Finance on a proposal from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. And fifthly, in parallel with the adoption of this Act, they expected you to propose to the Croatian Parliament a final ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 179 concerning the intervention in the employment of sailors in order to finally avoid Croatian sailors because Croatia did not ratify it from its own pocket must pay for mediation in employment. Thank you. What the article 128 offers, but also 129 offers is the fact that Croatian sailors in international navigation and on board a ship under the Croatian flag, and given last week's two mandatory contributions laws should pay a monthly tax advance, and thus also a contribution. If you disagree with my claim, show me the provision of a law that is not such, the Law on Mandatory Contributions. That's not what you're talking about here. Secondly, the payment of the Croatian seafarer's contribution to international navigation must be paid not on its application, but on the application of the employer or shipowner, not on its application, but on the application submitted by his employer, or shipowner. And I'm going to illustrate that to you later on on a beautiful story that I got today. Thirdly, this approach definitely makes the price of the work of the Croatian seafarer in gross amounts uncompetitive and suitable for foreign shipmen. Articles 128 and 129 of the Treaty apply to the benefit of foreign shipowners, as they will have a lower labour price, as sailors, Croatian seamen who sail on foreign ships of these provisions of the Law do not apply to them. I therefore accepted the three amendments to the Croatian Maritime Union, in Article 128, paragraph 129, paragraphs 1 and 2. And please, when you consider them, let's try to simulate the following together. A Croatian seaman who sails on board the ship for 4, 5 months is located in the port of Patagonia and has to submit a tax application monthly and for contributions. And he has to phone the boater in Losinj, Cres, anywhere, to find out on what basis he's registered. Because it's not a sailor, it's a boatman. When a very kind official gives him information on the basis, then he must fill out the application, fill in the check and find a pigeon or parrot, the writer to send it to Zagreb on the account of the Minister of Finance, provided that the shipowner has paid him the salary for these 4 months he is sailing, which he cannot verify, and if that check he sends to the pigeon or parrot from Patagonia to Zagreb is not without cover he will have the chance to wait 10 months if he has paid taxes to get his advance tax back. That's what Articles 128 and 129 tell you. And therefore again, I propose that the issue of filing applications, reporting basics, payment of contributions to seamen and payment of taxes be made after one year's application at the end of the financial year. And that the issue of the basis for the calculation of all social security contributions, since they can't even affect the level of base that the state of Croatia calculates, does not account for half of that amount. Under the current system with far smaller bases, sailors pay the biggest contributions to pension and health insurance. You can check that information with the state administration. And if you prove to me that the Navy union is wrong and that these reports are not like that, I will apologize to you publicly. Only by calculating and displaying the actual reports that are now and the method of reckoning can withdraw this claim. And finally, as far as the maritime allowance is concerned, unless it is determined in absolute terms and previously known on a tripartite basis, I ask a question, and it is an untaxable part, whether there is this possibility of manipulation, the determination of that amount at the end of the tax year or at the last moment, and I repeat, when these two laws are joined, that the application should be filed every month. You have the opportunity to adopt these three amendments very simple, very simple, so that this thread you've got move and fill their stocking with something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29789	Thank you. On behalf of the motionary, Secretary of State Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29790	There you are, Mr. Lesar, Your Honor. I'll tell you the next thing. What you are proposing is almost on the trail of what is existing, it is almost on the trail of the existing regulation that has partially sanctioned the situation that should contribute to Croatian seamen by many regulations of the previous governments. And what's going on? What you said yourself. And this is that the Croatian Employment Institute almost annually does not report any seamen to have established a working relationship or have become a tax, independent taxpayer. It's on the trail of the solution you're offering. And we in the Government guarantee that every Croatian employer, and we would like to be a Croatian shipowner at the same time, which is not the case now, will be the one who, when he closes a contract with the seaman, will allow that seaman to be in a much more favourable position than a seaman who is now an independent taxpayer of taxes and contributions and who sails on a foreign ship of a foreign ship owner. Namely, the fact is, this is what we always say we can find her in the Atlantic navigation. What you're offering, today there's an Atlantic navigation in Dubrovnik. And she has the fact that all her ships are under Croatian flag. And there's no employee sailor at a company based in Dubrovnik. It's on the trail of what you're talking about. And we offer and we are convinced that the Atlantic navigation of Dubrovnik, which has all its ships under Croatian flag, will have more favourable conditions for both itself and the shipowners, which is very important for the seamen, because if the seamen are employed in the Atlantic navigation based in Dubrovnik, they will pay less than their colleague who sails in the same navigation employed by the company outside the Republic of Croatia. Because apart from our desire to have our ships under the Croatian flag, it is our wish that the sailors who sail on them are Croatian citizens in Croatian legislation. And the whole story now comes down to the fact that the problem is who's going to report that sailor. I am convinced that it must not be an absolute brake in the adoption of such a maritime code. For what? Because when a Croatian legal person based in the Republic of Croatia closes a contract with a seaman whether he reported it or reported it by a seaman. So either an employer or a sailor, you tell me what it would be like for a sailor to report it. If the sailor does not consider the contract to cover and not report it to pension and health insurance. And we repeat once again, as regards income tax, I said they wouldn't pay it or it's very small, and it will depend on a maritime supplement that will be an untaxable part and will pay it once a year. And I don't see where it says so, I said it would be written in the Income Tax Regulation that will be dealt with by this, which will be adopted after the Maritime Code is passed. We will go with and with, should also establish a basis for pension and health, for contributions to pension and health insurance. It should also be determined. Therefore, this will also be adopted immediately after the adoption of the Maritime Code, as the assumption of the possibility of establishing that basis on which pension and health contributions will be calculated is made to the adoption of the Maritime Code. And the fact that if we do not accept this solution can be returned to the existing and this is an existing saying that I do not have that information, but it seems to me that no Croatian shipowner is also an employer and more of a Croatian flag.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29791	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29792	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Secretary of State, it is incorrect that the solutions offered will go in favour of Croatian sailors being in the jurisdiction of Croatian legislation. Because the arguments you later used deny the very essence of it. You said they'd write. We're passing the Naval Code now. The future rules we MPs have no idea. So you're making me believe your word for it, both me and the sailors. If you'd come with the whole proposal, maybe you could have believed it. And as for the Atlantic Charter, what you said would happen will be in the phonogram. I won't forget. In six months, I'll ask you to give me the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29793	Thank you. The word has a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29794	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs! The current Maritime Code has been in force since 1994, and it is the first Croatian complete system of maritime legislation. This regulation regulates all significant public-law and property-law relations related to the sea, maritime navigation activities and maritime vessels. So far, the Law has been amended several times and the adoption of the Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is a part of the provisions of the law relating to the maritime goods regime being put out of force. Some of the provisions relating to the maritime economy today have become obsolete or too restrictive. In the meantime, the Republic of Croatia has become party to new or amended international conventions whose implementation is to be ensured by the Maritime Code and other legal regulations which represent a secondary legal source in relation to the matter governed by the Maritime Code have entered into force. The country of maritime orientations such as Croatia must not lag behind modern achievements, therefore a significant part of the proposed solutions to the new Maritime Law is also the result of the desire to bring Croatian maritime legislation into line with the solutions of international unification instruments that the Republic of Croatia has ratified after the entry into force of the Maritime Code. Maritime practice has shown that certain provisions of the Maritime Law are not in satisfactory, complete, logical and precise ways to resolve certain different relationships. Therefore, one part of the provisions of the new Maritime Code has the force to remove the shortcomings that are... in the everyday application of the Law of the Sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, this has been demonstrated necessary in the section relating to the maritime and sub-sea areas of the Republic of Croatia, the safety of navigation, the registration and erasure of ships. It should also be pointed out that this law also creates assumptions for the full harmonisation of maritime legislation with the acquiss of the European Union. This legislative proposal regulates certain ship business relations in international navigation, particularly facilitating the tax on the profit of companies and the tax relief of seamen. These provisions seek to create a more favourable economic climate for maritime shipping and to create assumptions for a more concrete position for Croatian shipowners in the demanding market. This Code provides for sanctions for maritime offences and, in particular, for infringements resulting in environmental damage. The adoption of the new Maritime Law allows for faster and more successful economic development of Croatia as a country of maritime orientation. A responding systematic and precise legal regulation that monitors the modern generally accepted European and global achievements is a necessary prerequisite for this development. The new code creates more favourable conditions for the business of Croatian shipowners on an extremely competitive international maritime market, which are particularly evident in the following. The shipping companies operating in international navigation are exempt from reinvested and retained profits, a new maritime mortgage institute is being introduced in full compliance with the Anglo-Saxon... Which pleases the more favourable financial engagement of our shipowners with foreign creditors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Measures shall be introduced to facilitate and regulate the operations of shipowners in the crew-related work, the application of labour contracts, the payment of contributions by seamen, by the Institute of Maritime Supplements. The proposed code is consistent with all international conventions and their amendments relating to the safety of ship and port navigation against pollution, to the management of ballast waters, to the transport of passengers and their luggage and to other international legal instruments in the maritime area. In addition, it sets out yachts as special vessels other than standard vessels and boats and prohibits cabotage and so does charter activities by vessels under a foreign flag. This proposal also regulates the way in which the mother charter works and creates preconditions for curbing the black charter. It will no longer be possible to perform charter service if the company in Croatia is not registered before and on board the Croatian flag. In fact, it doesn't make sense that strangers here make money by boat and money just passes by us. In addition, a special questionnaire for yachts shall be introduced. So far, tankers and yachts have signed up equally. Now there is a difference in crew equipment, procedures and it will be much simpler for yachts. The penalties for sea pollution are being applied, the possibility of addressing the issue of balastic water releases and other issues is being opened. In order to achieve high standards and international standards in the safety of ship navigation that enter our ports, the new code is fully in line with the Paris Memorandum of Port Control. It is then brought into line with modern national rules such as the Executive Act, the Law on Property and other real rights and the Law on Infringements. According to the first reading, the final proposal of the Lawmaker of the Sea has respected some demands from the first reading parliamentary debates. Thus, a permit for nuclear power and nuclear weapons in the Adriatic will be granted by the government in the future, not by the defence minister. Mandatory driving remains for the transport of dangerous goods. The requirements related to the employment of our sailors in international navigation have also been respected. In the matrix, a contract with the employer will have to be made prior to exposure, and mandatory insurance will be paid by the seaman himself. Taxation is also arranged, with the aim of introducing mariners under a foreign flag into the labour legislation system of Croatia, i.e. they and their families. The charter activity was left for the period from 30 September 2005, for the war with the licences received prior to the adoption of this Act, provided that they are clearly entered in the register and pay the fees. Compared to the first reading, the provisions on cabotage were also amended, as I said, and they would only be allowed in exceptional cases by foreign ships, yachts and boats. And in conclusion, the new Maritime Law as a modification of the mammoth document with more than a thousand and 500 members seems to me to bring a good wind into the sails of the ship. This fundamental law now gives, unlike the previous, a more systematic and precise legal regulation to a more similar practice that has long been developed by advanced maritime states in Europe and the world. It is not even too much to say that this Law is a historic turn-off for reasons because it first receives special treatment of the law that has long been adopted in practice in other maritime countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29795	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29796	Thank you very much. So I'm actually gonna try to pick up where I left off on behalf of the club, so I'm gonna repeat that last sentence. I must indeed admit that it is amazing that the Maritime Code, which, behold, considers the Naval Constitution, has not solved this problem, in fact the port and what are the strategies of the construction of the ports and everything else. So, I don't mean ports as parking spaces for yachts owned by European Union, European Union countries, but I mean ports that actually serve people who live at sea and from the sea. And these are, therefore, not only freight ports and ferry ports and traffic ports but also fishing ports above all. I'll repeat that 6 grand is 300 kilometers of coast and island, only 2.7 miles or 3 kilometers, if you will, of the so-called waste. fishing ports. The fact is, you're already having problems with fishing ports and fishing boat berths in all the ports that exist. The fact is, we're building a fishing fleet and we're launching a boat's idea solutions contest for that fishing fleet. The fact is that there are no buying-in centres for fish and the fact is that now the fishing ports are insufficient for those ships we have, so I'm asking myself a simple question, to myself and to you, where this will be tied up and where will be those ransom centres for that future fishing fleet that we're building. Furthermore, the most sensitive part of the Maritime Law, if we view it as a Maritime Constitution, is certainly the entry of warships into our inner waters and it is always one sensitive thing. However, the entry of ships on nuclear power is totally unacceptable and we believe that it should be completely prohibited to enter the ports of ships on nuclear power. There is certainly a difference here, and I'm sure you're the one who distinguishes safe passage through our waters and entering ports as two completely different things, and that's why I repeat again. It's not about boarding warships on nuclear power in our waters, it's not about safe passage, it's about getting into ports. Such one, such a single permit to sail into the ports of a foreign nuclear ship cannot be granted by the Government and should not be given power only by the Government but would have to issue such a permit, what we have formed, which is the National Council, or the Council for Nuclear Security of Croatia. And it should be in his jurisdiction, if not just in his, but it would certainly be the Council for Nuclear Security that we formed must be a co-signator of one such permit along with the Government. Why am I saying that? Because we are just witnessing that the government is signing different military agreements with, for example, the United States, and not even at the level of the minister of defense, but not at the level of the defence minister, it is not an agreement on free entry of ports to US warships signed recently by Minister Roncevic, but even his assistant, not in Croatia, but in Germany. Therefore, it is clear that if you really want to solve the Maritime Code, this problem must be paid much more attention. So, regardless of whether we're signing some memoranda or in any other way, what I'm interested in, what I'd like you to answer me is how you're going to align those solutions that are in the Naval Code and those solutions that come out of such memos that we actually signed this last 4th under this defence agreement with NATO, or with the United States, in fact, gave free use of a certain port for US military ships. We signed it, that's the fact that it is. So if we already want to do it that way, or if we're already doing it in such a way that we make some of our ports, some of us make free military bases, then that's really another problem, but it would have to be consistent with what you're proposing in the Law of the Sea, and it's not harmonised. I will say that the articles relating, therefore, to that passage, the harmless passage of foreign warships are in principle fine and we really support the fact that such a foreign warship that wants to land in Croatia should have the Croatian flag on it so please tell me nicely and answer me what will be done in case of a repeat case as was the case with a Spanish warship that was landing cargo at the port of Ploče with ESFOR actually refused to raise the Croatian flag. What are you going to do in that hour under these provisions of the Law of the Sea, which, of course, determines that it must do to him? So, not only did this ship show disrespect for Croatia's sovereignty, it will in fact violate these provisions of the Law of the Sea which you have now laid down. What I'm interested in, the answer to the question, is this. What's going to happen to this Memorandum we signed if one such warship foreign causes, say, one hararium at sea? For example, run over one two or three yachts or one fishing boat because he didn't see it in the fog. What's actually going to happen, given who's going to handle that responsibility, who's going to be in harm's way, who's going to report it to, because that military ship under this memo we signed isn't actually under our jurisdiction. Does this mean that by sailing to these ports that we gave him for free use, at night or in fog or in any other way, he will be able to actually unpunish everything that happens to him on the road, or let's just say he's broken down by that hour of electronics for one reason or another, so he won't notice in time. In addition, regardless of the sophistication of every government, especially warships we have witnessed such accidents at sea happening everywhere in the world every day. With these strings it is actually, and therefore I continue, in fact, in this debate is an extremely important and important problem of seizing which you have changed by this Law, so you have increased the limit of liberation from seizing to 5,000 tonnes on ships of 5,000 tonnes or to two now in this change. Although I think the old provision was 1,500 tons whether or not it was a thousand. What I think is that, this line should be reduced, certainly to a thousand tons, and for the simple reason that the question of seizing is not only a question of the risk of sailing and safety at sea but also of seizing is also a question of profit. So, people who actually do this job would make a living if that line were to rise to the one you suggested, that profit would certainly be lower and should be kept in mind, and that is especially true of the fact that it should introduce a riding obligation for large cruisers, i.e. large yachts that are more than 500 tonnes. Not only because it would increase certain profits, but for a certain reason that a 500-tonne cruiser has a huge number of people, and that would certainly be much more important. On a small freighter of 2,000 tons, there is actually no crew of how many total crews are on one cruiser. Therefore, the total number of people on one such tanker is half as small as there are crews on one such cruiser and should therefore be introduced to reduce that limit for large yachts to 500 tonnes, i.e. the obligation to ride to 500 tonnes. Here, since I'm starting this fourth, this red light. I'll tell you what else. We absolutely agree with your decision to ban fishing for foreigners in Croatian waters, however, we ask you to abolish Article 71 in this regard. The sea fishing law because it belongs under your portfolio, you will also, in that way, end the application of the agreement with Slovenia that allows this fishing to Slovenians. Even though they're strangers, I guess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29797	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29798	Mr. Vice President, here's how it seems to me that most of the MPs had to say what they had to say about this Marine MP said in his first reading and that they were obviously satisfied with what came before us today as I am. I have to start by saying I'm happy with this final proposal. Especially because he respected a good part of those discussions that were in the first reading, and let me just look back on some. In fact, it's really very important that we simply end up with the black Charter and therefore all the provisions concerning those who have licenses and who will anyway... must sail under Croatian flag, have to register at a company in Croatia, in fact, it is finally standing at the end, finally with the Black Charter and indeed there will be no doubt in the future whether there is one in Croatia or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, he won't be here because everyone's gonna have to obey this law. And it's good to leave a more reasonable deadline for harmonising with this Act, it's September 30th, that we wouldn't, as it was in the previous proposal, not to cause a few months of confusion and in fact make it impossible for all those who want to engage in this activity but in one legal way not to disable them in this business and therefore welcome this extended period by the end of September next year, and I believe that it's enough for them all to comply with the law. In particular, I find important provisions concerning the protection of the Adriatic, and I think that there is indeed one significant progress here and that, above all, and among other things, more severe sanctions, with large amounts of money that will have to be allocated by those who would violate the provisions of this Law, we will actually raise awareness, the level of consciousness of all those who sail the Adriatic and that in this way, I believe that we will prevent any pollution and pollution of our Adriatic. This seems very important, especially to me, to me, to the question of ballast waters. All those who know what the balasic waters mean in nature, especially the release in the Adriatic from large tankers know that this can also affect the biological diversity of the Adriatic and that in the future it can significantly pollute the Adriatic in one way let's say the invisible way. In this sense, the provisions concerning ballast waters are extremely important and address the problem in the long run, the problem of protecting the biodiversity of the Adriatic. Something that also caused our controversy and recommendations in the first reading was certainly the power of decision the minister had on the proposal and on the entry of ships and submarines on nuclear power in Croatia's Adriatic. So, and now with this proposal, the final proposal, this decision-making power is transferred to the government, which gives it one special weight, and it is quite certain that when the government decides to take an aspect, it will take various aspects of the decision-making process and that it is a higher level of decision-making. And in that sense, I absolutely join all those who have supported such a proposal, the final proposal. And I think that's good, by the way, the more the Atomic Energy Agency will be involved in making a decision like this. And that's how we raised it to one higher, let's say the highest level of decision-making, and I believe that these decisions will be made and will indeed be evaluated by making those decisions for the benefit of all of us. Something else about sailors here today was a lot of words, obviously it was very difficult how contributions would be paid, I think those doubts were resolved by the State Secretary who made it very clear by replicating his colleague, Lesar. But what seems also important to me is that this issue of additional education, or the possibility for seafarers to free themselves from passing certain exams because, in their regular education, education could include certain programmes that would actually be able to acquire certain knowledge and that would free them from passing additional exams. I must say, in Dubrovnik in particular, I know a lot of sailors who have to go to extra exams every little bit. I am not saying that this one proposal will free them from all exams, it is impossible, however, one part of these programmes can indeed be included in regular schooling and here we really support this proposal that the Minister of Special Regulation decides which programmes will be included in regular schooling but of course it must be in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Sports and perhaps to insert this one supplement because it is understood that this law simply does not regulate the power of education. Therefore, with the agreement of the Ministry of Education and Sports, it sets out by one Regulation which programmes may be included in the regular schooling of those who are educated in maritime titles in order to be free from the passing of these additional exams, special examinations and to ultimately save on those same exams. These are, in general, thousands of kunas that sailors must single out to get simple evidence that they have passed certain tests, and in this way they would be helped in their financial state to really see here as a regular schooling system to master certain programs. Here is what seems extremely important to me to point out what I said because it seems to me that this really is a significant change in relation to that first proposal and I believe that this Final proposal, regardless of these recommendations relating to salaries, to, and to the contributions of the seamen themselves, will ultimately be well accepted by the seamen themselves, but certainly by all those who in this comprehensive law find their own interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29799	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Jozo Topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29800	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Milinović, Mr. State Secretary and Mr. Babic and dear, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would also like to take part in this debate on this proposal of an extremely important code, and I will immediately support the government's initial efforts and efforts to make this bill. As Croatia is an unequivocal maritime country, and as we know more than 70% of world trade is taking place in the sea and maritime affairs, there is no particular need to emphasise the importance of this legislative proposal, the Maritime Code, because this Maritime Code is an extremely important legal act that regulates all public-law, property and security elements related to the sea and sea. This Maritime Code proposal does not regulate one area, which is maritime goods and ports. This is already said in the debate, that part, the matter was isolated in 2003 from the previous or still valid Maritime Code, which was adopted in 1994. Of course, in this proposal, the final proposal of the maritime code is not included in any way legally defined or maritime guard, so we ask ourselves with the right as some have said whether this is a real code or whether this is a law or it is, some even talked about the Constitution. However, these qualifications should not be disputed. I think this is an extremely good proposal for a maritime code and, as we have said, it is important to determine the way we work, the way we use the sea, the sea and the way our shipmen and all the entities at sea work. I believe that soon, at Parliament or Parliament, we will have a debate, debate, and mention this proposal on the Coast Guard because I think it is extremely important because why the adoption of all legislative acts, all of these measures if we do not have an instrument, an instrument and a way to implement it, and how we will protect our sea and our coast. On our coast, we should mention that we have a long sea tradition. Here was St. Nicholas yesterday, among other things, we saw how involved it was in the being of our people, our sailors in our coastal areas, in all the cities, at that festival of St. Nicholas we see and remember this long, long tradition of ours. So our coastal cities, coastal cities, had been able to regulate this matter in their statutes in the 13th century. This final proposal for a maritime code is essentially the same continuity, one continuation of this long maritime legal tradition in these areas. And with this, such a code of Croatia, Croatia is declared a maritime country that systematically regulates maritime matter as all advanced maritime countries in Europe and the world do. In our first reading debate, we supported and commended the government, the government and the Ministry for relatively fast construction of this proposal for a maritime code that is in line with all international resolutions and legal acts. From this, it can be read what is extremely important to me that this government recognises the importance and importance of the sea and our coast, to recognise this exceptional potential of Croatia and that this potential should be protected and preserved economically. And I believe that this is only the first very important step that creates assumptions that we are once again a significant maritime country because we are aware that, in the past period, especially since the beginning of the Homeland War, what has been a major loss of significant shipowners for objective reasons. Let's just think of some, here in Sibenik "Free sailing", remember in Split "Split sailing", "Croatia Line" and many other important and important shipmen who had great reputation and great importance both in the maritimeity of our country and on the world market. And now it's before the government, and I believe this government has a concept and concept of how to revive shipbuilding and shipbuilding? How to modernise ports, build roads and build needed railways, railway infrastructure because these are all assumptions that we could talk about Adriatic orientation, how to improve tourism and naturally revive islands and preserve our coast? I believe that the Government, and this also shows this proposal, the Final Proposal of this Maritime Code, is extremely aware and that, again, I am stressing in a short time a very high-quality and good code which is a prerequisite for the achievement of everything else. In the context of what is said, I will mention about the maritime orientation that it is also important to bear in mind that it is also necessary to restore and, and these line ships in many areas in our Adriatic. Here's what I'd like to think of, and I'd like to mention an example of Sibenik. We in Sibenik, in the Sibenik aquarium have islands that connect this one we have ships that connect our islands to Sibenik that are over 50 years old. These ships are in no way consistent with the needs that are found today, since these ships have no possibility of carrying cars with these ships. So we don't have the right ferry and I think it would be much more instructional and useful and that it should be the same in this direction and this direction and the maritime orientations of our country to build model ships of appropriate size and technically equipped so that they can agree in smaller ports that they don't have large gauze and, of course, other than passengers can be used and can be used to transport cars. Here as I see my time running out, I would only ultimately like to thank the promoter once again if he had appreciated the debate of all the important moments that have been expressed as an example of cabotage. as an example of pilotage with ships carrying dangerous cargo also entering or allowing ships carrying atomic weapons on board and on Atomic Drive. I would also support the debate of my fellow Member Šima Prtvenjaki in connection with the working social rights of the seamen and I believe that we should really make sure that these rights and conditions for our sailors are even because, as they are said to be working and operating on the world market, they should therefore have both working conditions and social care in the same way as the practice on the world market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29801	Thank you. We've exhausted the debate with this. State Secretary Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29802	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since I have already appeared twice in this debate, I would only at the end of what may not have been covered in the first and second address under this Final Proposal of the Maritime Code. He'd like to return to that debate with Mr. Lesar for a little while, because I've run out of time before. And I think that I am also obliged in a certain way to present the part relating to the obligation of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development to adopt a very large number of sublegal acts, including a sublegal act which will establish the basis for the calculation of pension and health contributions to the subject of this labour contract signed with the employer. Further obligation by the Minister of Finance to determine the height of the maritime allowance. We're here I'm gonna say, although I didn't mean to even say it because I can't prejudge the Secretary of Finance's decision. But in agreement with the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship in agreement with the Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance is planning to determine by the end of the year most of the maritime task and the Minister of Finance is obliged by the basis of the income tax law to bring in a number of other heights of the allowance, which make up an untaxable part of the income if the field allowance is higher and so on. One of these categories will be a maritime supplement. We discussed it can say, we found that the altitude of the marine supplement would be 400 kuna. And now it's 250. With 400 kuna it is annually 12,000 kunas of non-taxable income, plus personal deductions that the seaman has on himself, plus events at the support of family members. There are almost no sailors except high-ranking officers who would base such a height of a maritime supplement and make sure there are only 6.7 months on board without receiving for the rest of the part I assume no income tax would pay. Thus, by now, sailors would have had a place and a more favourable position than they had so far. So from Mr. Lesar's debate, not only is this government yesterday for the day of the seamen and the holiday of St. It wasn't a Krampus, but I'd say St. Nikola with gifts that she has made to Croatian sailors to accept such a proposal of the Maritime Code and I would say already. Three things I want to say that I didn't say. DANA Nothing else has been done, the fact that the maritime code is now the first time that it introduces a category that solves the rights of seamen through its own provisions. Which practically rises above other laws that regulate all other workers in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the Maritime Code introduces the first ptu to introduce conditions for the operation of Croatian shipowners in international navigation, which, using such provisions of the Maritime Code, are in a position of discretion compared to other Croatian employers. And it's impenetrable. While almost all Croatian employers are obliged to pay taxes on profits by this maritime code, we are practically exempt from paying taxes on the profits of all Croatian shipmen sailing in international navigation regardless of the purpose they spend on operating in international navigation. Here's Mr. Rozic now leaving, I was just trying to get him some of the things Mr. Rozic listed in his presentation. The first thing I would like to show him is that as if he knew that the Ministry of Sea, Tourism of Transport and Tourism and Development has already prepared a proposal for a vinjet here for the first time, I show that Croatian vignettes will look like, every foreign citizen who sails his yacht into the Republic of Croatia and he will have an obligation to enter the port cabin in the Republic of Croatia. To pay for this vignette, which will settle all the obligations he has towards the Republic of Croatia. So from the light, the reception, and so on, they'll pay with vignette. And at the moment when he buys that vignette he will tell the port captainium, or expose the port captains in the Republic of Croatia, to report twice as many persons as the yacht for which the yacht is registered. So we let him once a year change the crew one time he was probably on that yacht another time was his son or daughter, or a narrow member of the family. And after that, no one else. And if a port captain once or an inspector of security sails him one time, he finds that with this vignet he has with which the list of crew members is still any other person who is not on the list he is in violation and which the offence is prescribed by the said provisions in a very high amount. We believe there will always be certain crimes. But this directly solves the issue of black charter in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is so much about the vinjet and about the maritime black charter. But we can only make this vignette after we adopt the Maritime Code and solve it by the end of the year, we decide to adopt a Regulation on the arrival and stay of foreign yachts that will prescribe those vignettes that are already prepared and wait for the adoption of the Maritime Code and after the regulation. As far as fishing ports are concerned, your question was about fishing ports, we in the ministry of all Croatian counties, proposed to the maritime Croatian counties and asked through state port administrations to deliver a list of ports in their area which, according to their marine abilities, could be Croatian fishing ports. I must say that at this point only three counties, i.e. three potential locations of fishing ports in the Republic of Croatia, are very fast, very close to solving the status of the fishing port, for several reasons. First, that fishing port will be in the state port administration system, as the state will then be able to intervene through the state budget in the infrastructure at that port which the operation will not be small, that is the first thing. The second thing, we will, we need that location to be in the county's spatial plan and in the spatial plan units of local self-government treated as a fishing port. The third thing, property-legal relationship that is solved over particles outside maritime goods, because for maritime good it is very simple to solve property-legal relations, or it is good in general use. Exclusion should be carried out in order for that part of the port to be in charge of the port administration and could be addressed. And at this moment we are solving in Rijeka fishing port, solving in Kali fishing port and in Komiza on the island of Vis. These three ports are at this moment closest to all the necessary outcomes, meaning the necessary documentation for the resolution of the fishing port. It is also planned in every county and in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and Sibenik-Kninska and Primorje-goranska, i.e. Ličko-Senjska, to resolve the status of the fishing port. We are willing, already in this 2005 budget adopted by this House, to provide funds for the possible construction of infrastructures in ports, ports, fishing ports that we plan to give us the power to intervene in port infrastructure for the next year. As far as I'm concerned, I agree with you, in one part you spoke of the fact that every port cannot be a port in which to sail a yacht, sail a boat for sport and entertainment, and that is why we agree that Croatia's Adriatic can't be a place of consumption where it can sail every yacht and attach itself wherever it wants, but a place in which we will determine the level of demand, or the level of services, the number of yachts, the number of berths in the Republic of Croatia, where they can sail to the Adriatic and thus make the Adriatic exclusive, and not to be a practical place where anyone can come to come, to connect wherever they want to, to pollinate the marine environment as much as possible. And that's why we gave up the Argonaut project and now we're solving, we're bringing in, we're in the process of adopting a strategy to make nautical tourism so that we can have a different approach to solving nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Your question also referred to that Spanish commander who sailed into Ploče and did not raise the Croatian flag. According to positive regulations and according to practice in the world, it is not the ship's duty to sail into another country to report the flag of the country in which it has sailed. It is primarily a matter of respect for the state in which you sail or "cortezine" as you say in English, but apparently that commander is not quite that much I would say he would show respect, which would otherwise be done by a very large majority of the world's shipmen when they sail into the Republic of Croatia. The problem of hiking has been solved in the best possible way, because we have taken care of Croatian pelars in a certain way, but on the other hand we have made it possible for ships that sail daily to Croatian ports, which daily enter Croatian ports, which do not carry dangerous burdens for them to be free of the fees for piloting. And I think that in this we have found one, one, a satisfactory average that is normally harmonised in the Mediterranean, or in the Mediterranean, where other states around the ships of such size have freed payments, freed segregation, and, on the other hand, and below that load, introduced the obligation of segregation if the ship carries dangerous loads. And you said exactly that, it should certainly be pointed out that we said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making a decision on the deployment of a foreign nuclear ship, but with the previous consent of the Minister of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, Minister of Defence and the Council for Nuclear Security in the Republic of Croatia. It's registered and it's precisely on the trail of the first reading we therefore removed that power of the defence minister, transferred to the government, and on the other hand, as the necessary consent, introduced the consent of the National Security Council, for nuclear security, I apologize. The fishing boat, I'll still touch the fishing boat you were talking about. So, the fishing boat is a project that we have brought to an end in the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development along with, in the first place, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Water Economy and I can say that, I hope, by the end of the year, it will be in the government. And the entire project of the Croatian fishing vessel, which is heading towards the restoration of the fishing fleet in the Republic of Croatia, comes down to three, three modules, three modusa. The first mode is that on the basis of the project created by the Croatian Shipyard Institute, we allow fishermen to use 30% of the incentives they receive from the state as a grant incentive, 10% of their own resources and 60% of the Croatian Bank's loan for renovation and development, if the ship is built in the Croatian shipyard in a way that allows the Croatian Government to provide 30% of the grants, of which 10% of the Ministry of the Sea, 10% of the Ministry of Agriculture, 10% of the Ministry of Economy. It's the second one, and that's two types of 25- and 30-metre swimmers. The second is, the second is the type of ship that allows fishermen to have smaller ships on the same principle if they contract them at the Croatian shipyard also have incentives from the Republic of Croatia. And the third is the modulus that we'll use that same amount to encourage the restoration of the fishing fleet and the modernisation of the fishing fleet. That's what was highlighted in the debate and what I think should have been further explained in any case. It is only in the end that you should thank all those who participated in the drafting of the Maritime Code, in the first order of the professors of Croatian legal and maritime colleges, all the shipmen who contributed to the preparation of this final proposal of the Maritime Code, thank all the trade unions that also participated in the drafting of the Maritime Code, although in the end we did not fully adopt their proposals because we hold that in this way we will do more in the protection, in the working-social protection of the seafarers, but rather in the proposal that the union made in the debate, because what was discussed by the trade union is practically what we have in the sea today, where the seaman is a self-paying taxpayer of taxes and contributions, as a rule does not pay and often the maritime family and the sailors know because they are not introduced into this labour social justice system often experience ugly fates. In this way, when the employer is obliged to report, he will report a seafarer in any case, and it is the state that will, through minimum bases, show this care to Croatian sailors and will thus be taken care of by them and their families. There, clearly and thank all the participants who have already proposed to us in their first reading a series of amendments that were mostly adopted in this second final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29803	I thank the Secretary of State. Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Rosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29804	Indeed, it is quite clear, quite clearly, secretary of state as this commander of the Spanish warship I was talking about, but he did not sail into Croatian waters, he tied himself up in the Croatian port. And then he has an obligation to highlight the flag of the state. If he's not decent enough to point it out when he sails into territorial waters, which I agree with you, he has jurisdiction. Secondly, what I was going to say about fishing ports is this. I'm glad we're building a fishing fleet. Where will that fishing fleet be bound, when you only mention three fishing ports here? It should be made in the maritime code of the county's obligation to determine the location for the fishing port of at least the county. Because otherwise, everyone will only build Marines for yachts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29805	I thank you for correcting the incorrect allegations, you cannot argue on the correcting of the incorrect assumption. This is what we've concluded. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29806	Final proposal of the Maritime Code, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 130. The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a plate of amendments. I'd like Secretary of State Branko Bacic. Amendment 1 to the Committee on Tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29807	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29808	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 2 amendments have been withdrawn. 3 amendments have been withdrawn by MP Doric. 4 MPs, Vice-President Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29809	It's unacceptable. I explained a lot last night, and now I'd just say that in maritime practice, it's not meant for sailors to be exempt from income tax due to the fact that they are more than 183 days in international navigation. The institute refers to citizens who are taxpayers of income tax in another country where income is generated. We have also assessed that, therefore, it is not acceptable and the solution to establish the maritime supplement in absolute terms, given that there is a possibility that certain shipowners will pay even more than the one prescribed by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29810	Did you explain? Who's up for that amendment? I'd like a representative to vote. Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Five representatives of Antun Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29811	The same explanation as for Mrs Djurdje Adlesic's amendment. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29812	There's no representative. It's an identical amendment, then since the past hasn't passed, it doesn't vote on this either. Six representatives of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29813	It's the same amendment. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29814	Amendment 6 is the same as 4 so we don't vote on it. 7 MPs Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29815	It's unacceptable. The proposal for a Maritime Code proposes that a ship's crew member, in the international navigation of the basis for the calculation of the contribution, be paid by a ship's crew member for the same, or similar ships on board the ship in national navigation, which is determined by the minister by a special regulation, and thus the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29816	The vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. The amendments to 8 of Dragutin Lesar's representatives and the amendments of MP Antun Peru are identical, so we do not vote on them. Amendment 10 of Dragutin Lesar's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29817	It's identical. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29818	Same. That's right. Yeah, and we don't vote on him. 11 MP Doric withdrew. 12 HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29819	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29820	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 13 MP Doric withdrew as well as 14 withdrawn. 15 Clubs of HDZ Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29821	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29822	It becomes an integral part of the law. 16 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29823	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29824	It becomes an integral part of the law. And 17 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29825	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29826	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that, with 77 votes for and 9 abstentions, the Maritime Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. In connection with this law, we have a proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, which reads: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt within 60 days a Regulation on the compensation for sequestered ships and boats within the meaning of the Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government "The National Journal" 92/96 and 80/02." I ask the Secretary of State to be made aware of the proposal for this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29828	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts such a conclusion more than it is normised in the existing Property Compensation Act seized during the Yugoslav Communist Government. However, the maritime minister was not set a time limit within which such a rule should be adopted. We accept, therefore, that this will be 60 days in which a team can be brought more than the Ministry of Sea, Tourism, Transport and Development, together with the Ministry of Justice and the Croatian Register of Ships, is already working on the criteria for assessing ships and boats compared to the age and time when they are taken away. Therefore, we accept this amendment in which the Government is obliged to adopt a regulation within 60 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29829	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal for this conclusion. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 83 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29830	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 226 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29831	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. This draft Law on Mandatory Relations is one of the systemically significant laws for the work of our economy and the judiciary at all. In his preparation, it may be necessary to say at the beginning to participate and recognise legal and economic experts, and the draft bill has been done since 95. And that is why it may be important at the beginning to say that who made the most working group for the making of this Act, it was made by professor Dr Petar Klaric, academician Jakša Babić, professor of Doctor Hrvoje Kačar, Katarina Buljan, Vilim Gorenc, Hrvoje Momcinović and Mladen Žuvela, Marko Baretic and Saša Niksic. In addition to these members in the special section, as regards the regulation of contractual relations, other recognised legal and economic experts have participated, and may also have to be said that the current Law on Mandatory Relations was created in the former federal state and was adopted into the legal system of Croatia in 91 years, as its law, and since its adoption until today, there have been 11 amendments. The result of such amendments is that the existing text of the Law has indeed become quite unseen, and because of the Council of Europe's directives, as well as the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with the legal fluids of the European Union, it was necessary to bring the draft law into line with the directives of the European Union. This proposal for a law has been corrected and certain shortcomings and detected and certain shortcomings have been identified in the practice so far. It may be necessary to say that this text of the Law and termologically complies with the standard of Croatian legal term. And the very structure of the Law has been conceptually arranged in a similar way as it has been so far. The Law therefore contains a general part, namely the rules applicable to all mandatory legal relations, fundamental principles, the determination of persons of mandatory relations, the creation of obligations, continuation and type of obligations, the effects of obligations, and the termination of obligations. And it contains a special part where contractual and non-contractual contractual relations are arranged. Nomotechnically speaking, this part is now regulated by the subsequent damage that has been regulated in the general section by the current law. In particular, the paper of the contract, such as the Life and Life Restraint Treaty, is set out in this section, which has been regulated by other regulations and loan contracts, or donations, of a contract that has not been arranged in the current Law. It is also important to say that, in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, two provisions are particularly significant, and this delay in the application of this Act in relation to contractual and tightened interest, for a period of 2 years, counting from the date of entry into force of this Act. Another newspaper is that in this Law, this Law will take effect 6 months from the day of its publication in the National Journal. Why these two changes? The delay in the application of this Act in relation to interest is the result of our economic relations, because at the moment the econtamination rate of the Croatian National Bank does not have the function it has in the countries of the European Union, i.e. does not reflect the real value of money and securities markets. However, we expect that in two years and we estimate that the escontaneous rate will certainly get closer, i.e. the role that the escot rate plays in the countries of the European Union. These two transitional provisions provide an opportunity in one real time to prepare everything necessary to bring the law back to life in relation to the determination of interest and one can be said in a painless way. It also provides the possibility for all entities to have legal relations in a time of 6 months from the day of publication in the National Journal of a really good study of the Law, and that judges and businessmen are sufficiently educated in order to, after the entry into force of the Law over 6 months, be truly in their full capacity. And now let me make very short changes, they refer to the regulation of personality rights and, as I've already said, tight and contractual interest. The paper on personality rights is to prescribe that a natural and legal person has the right to protect his or her rights under the premises of the Law, this is particularly important for the right of a person to have a reputation and a good reputation, honor, name, or company, special secret, freedom of establishment, this right is closely attached to the provision of rights relating to the new definition of non-proprietary damage, as such legal persons can also suffer no property damage. And when it comes to tight interest, which has really caused a lot of controversy in the media. The system of tight interest in this Bill Proposal binds itself, therefore, as I said at the escont rate of the Croatian National Bank, and in order to determine the level of the rate of the tight interest and the contractual interest is always the starting point of the escontaneous rate of the Croatian National Bank. The level of tightening interest rates depends on the entity's mandatory legal relationship and so that, starting with the econcentrate rate of the Croatian National Bank, it increases. In trade contracts relations and contracts between traders and public rights persons, by increasing 8% today, this would be as proposed by 4.5+8, 12.5%, and in other respects of consumer and civil law contracts by increasing 5% today, this would be in proposal 4.5+5 around 9.5%. The paper of this law is the possibility to negotiate a different rate of tightening legal interest in trade contracts and contracts between traders and public rights persons with a view to determining the highest rate of such interest that can be agreed and that is the legal tightening interest increased by half of that rate. That would be 12.5 plus 6.25 today, so 18.75%. In the case of agreed interest, the rate of the contractual interest shall be tied to the rate of the tight interest. The height of the highest rate depends on the status of the entity in a specific mandatory legal relationship. Therefore, among those with whom at least one non-trader cannot be higher than the rate of legal tight interest. Today, according to the proposal, it would be 9.5% and between traders and public rights persons cannot be higher than the rate of legal tightening interest increased by half of that same rate. This proposed arrangement of contractual tight interest will enable a flexible system of determining contractual and legal tight interest which will automatically respond to changes in the financial market. Croatian law is harmonised with the right of the European Community and, of course, negative phenomena are removed in practice that led to the current legal arrangement of contractual and legal tightening interest. And here, let me just have one more sentence. The Law on Mandatory Relations will, according to its structure, represent a very coherent whole, will be based on the acquis of the European Union and will be recognizable to people outside and traffic will take place on a more modern normative basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29832	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Justice Committee is a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29833	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs! At the 17th session held on 6 December 2004, the Justice Committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee shall be based on the powers laid down in Article 73. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the draft law as a parent working body. In his opening statement, he pointed out that a new Law on Mandatory Relations had been adopted for several reasons. By applying the Law on Mandatory Relations in practice, he had a number of shortcomings, a large number of amendments and the addition of the law became unseen. The launch of the accession procedure to the European Union of the Republic of Croatia has gradually committed to installing the legal property of the European Union in its legal order. In addition, there is a need for a termological alignment of the text of the law with the standard Croatian legal term. In accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the European Community and their Member States, the proposed law and text, the legal text and the Directives of the European Union. More important newspapers refer to the rights of personality and interest. In the debate, the members of the committee supported the draft law, stressing that the work of the expert group, the prominent legal experts in the drafting of the draft law, resulted in an acceptable text of law which, in relation to the earlier law, represents a comprehensive text in the field of mandatory relations in line with the legal gains of the European Union. After the discussion, the Committee on Justice unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusions. First, a proposal for a Law on Mandatory Relations submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is adopted. Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be submitted in the debate on the draft Law on Mandatory Relations will be directed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to consider them when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29834	Thank you. No one's answering from the board anymore. I'm opening a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29835	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister! The Croatian Democratic Community's club fully supports the proposal for a new Law on Mandatory Relations, not only because of the quality of the regulation itself which is unquestionable and for the following reasons. First, the Law on Mandatory Relations was passed in 1978, so in another state-owned form, which was adopted in our legislation by the Law on the adoption of that regulation and a whole series of other regulations known to the people's newspaper, so no. 53/91. Second, his text was followed by a large number of changes and additions. Overall, over all these past years, it has been changed and complemented 11 times, and thus it has become in nomotechnical and any other sense extremely unsightly. And third, of course, there was also the need to comply with the Law on Mandatory Relations with the provisions of the first Directive of the European Union if the need for the terminology of the text of the law to the standard of Croatian legal title. In the process or procedure of compliance with European Union law, in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, as the implementation of the aforementioned Directives which regulate mandatory relations, it is also necessary to highlight the fact that the proposed law has also been renumbered. Therefore, in this structural sense, there has been a change, and so are the new institutes that are foreseen by law or those that have been amended and supplemented, of course in terms of this numbering quite different from or elaborated in the existing or applicable Law on Mandatory Relations. Given the very structure of the law in its first part or in the general part, we find changes that will certainly be different but I dare say a better way to regulate this part of mandatory law. These changes can be systematized in six basic points. The first is to redefine the concept of tradition as a source of law, the second order of the concept of a commercial contract, the third right of personality, so not legal personality but personality rights, the fourth monetary obligation, the five institutes in a different way arranged to kill debtors' legal actions and the sixth time fulfilled by the contract of commitments. As regards the first point, the current law provides that trade practices apply only if the contracting parties have agreed to apply them, which is contrary to traditional regulation mandatory legal relations between traders. It is therefore proposed that trade practices bind participants whenever their application is not explicitly or tacitly excluded. The possibility is provided for to apply, in the relations between traders other than customs, and practices developed by them, which are of course in accordance with modern mandatory and legal arrangements. Secondly, the concept of a commercial contract replacing the term of a contract in the economy was arranged and the amendment was necessary to change the concept of an outdated concept of economic activity, so it replaced the concept more modernly. As regards the right of personality, the provision on the rights of personality has been filled with a legal void which appears in our legal order in connection with this issue. Article 19 of the Law provides that any natural and legal person shall be entitled to the protection of his or her rights under the assumptions laid down in the law. So, that or that fact would certainly point out specifically. Therefore, under the rights of personality within the meaning of this law, rights to life, physical or mental health, reputation, honor, dignity, name, privacy of personal and family life, freedom and others are understood. The most important newspaper is in fact a provision that the legal person has all of those rights, personalities other than those related to the biological essence of a natural person, and in particular the right to reputation and good reputation, honor, name or company, business secret, freedom of engagement and others. It should not be personally stressed that this provision is extremely important for the purpose of a new definition of non-proprietary damage and, among other things, it is accompanied by the provision of Article 1048 which regulates the request for termination of the infringement of the right of personality. As regards these fourth newspapers or financial commitments, significant changes are reflected in the new system of determination, calculation of both contractual and tightening interest and were made on the one hand in order to wash out the shortcomings of the current arrangement observed in the case of courts and, on the other hand, to coordinate the interest system with the modified opportunities on the financial market. It is also the need to comply with the provisions of the European Community Directive to prevent late payment of commercial contracts. Change... And in that sense, unlike the solutions that have been banned so far... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It did not refer to the credit operations of banks and other banking organisations with a new solution proposed that the ban does not apply to deposits with banks and other financial institutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, the opinion was accepted that the ban... it is necessary to apply exactly to credit and not to deposit operations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the case of the Institute of Disprovement of Legal Actions, the principle of economicity has been elaborated in terms of accepting a solution to the submission of paulian suits in terms of the determination of persons of the defendants, so that the solution is the situation in which the debtor and the third party have concluded a contract as a legal business, so that it would not be covered by the claim of the debtor and the third party that the legal business itself has lost legal effect on the third party but not on the debtor. This solution is accepted as correct and in terms of the application of the bankruptcy law in respect of the rejection of legal actions in the course and of course these are subject to changes of a procedural legal nature. As regards the time of fulfillment of the commitment contract, it should be pointed out that this substance has not been particularly governed by the applicable Act and the provision of Article 175 of the proposed law only detailed the time of fulfillment of the commitments made. Furthermore, in the second part, which regulates as a specific part of the Mandatory Liabilities Act, mandatory relationships also have important changes that we can systematically systemise in the following way or in the following points. As regards the Institute of Consensus of Will, the European Contract Law of the so-called ‘European Contracting Rights’ has been adopted in this part. Land's principles and Land's principles stressing the justification of pre-contractual responsibility for breach of the principle of conscience and honesty. Second, initiatives for the conclusion of a contract shall be accepted by the concept of subjective understanding basically of the causa as assumptions of the validity of the contract. So by abandoning the proposed law... The basic and invalidity of the contract on the grounds of the basic wish to avoid disputes which are as to the concept of the basis of whether there are relevant provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed solution allows easier application of regulations mainly related to excessive damage institutes, green legal work, fraud, changes or termination of contracts due to changed circumstances and acquisitions without a basis. As regards material delusions, a circle of persons in cases where error is relevant to the situation in which it is not a delusion of the essential characteristics of the case, but of the delusion of the entity itself, the object of the contract. The abandonment of unscrupulousness as conjecture of the rejection of legal work due to delusion also represents one of the major changes. Furthermore, in this part of the Law, we find a lot of new but in a different way developed legal institutes, which would refer to the three most important ones, are nothing, i.e. nothing, the consequences of nothingness, the right to repair damages and to amend or terminate contracts due to changed circumstances. So, instead of the expression "zeroness", now is used as an expression of nothingness that stems from a former Croatian legal term. On the other hand, the second amendment concerns the effects of integrity, given that the proposal has abandoned the solution that the court may reject in its entirety the non-awareness which it has given to the other party and may decide what the other party has received on the basis of the forbidden contract to surrender it to the municipality in whose territory it has its seat, or residence. Therefore, this solution is abandoned because it has a distinct penal character and is therefore not a place in the civil law. As regards the right to repair damages, the possibility of compensation for no material damage is introduced because of the failure to fulfil the contractual obligation, therefore, here they are re-accepted so-called. Land’s principles and modern concept of the scope of the contractual liability compensation for damages to which the compensation of property and non-equity damage caused by breach of the contract as a legal transaction is made possible. Clausula... or the clauses of the changed circumstances experience proposed changes and a conceptual but practical different definition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed amendments shall clearly determine that the primary consequence of the application of this clause is to amend the contract until the end of access is only possible if the amendment is not possible. As far as specific contracts are concerned, it should be noted that this part is extremely well solved. Among other things, and the similar fact that some of the contracts in terms of their definition and development are first incorporated into the Law which defines mandatory relations. First of all, I am referring to the Treaty on Donation, and also to the Life Support Treaty and the Life Support Treaties that were so far, these two last ones were regulated in part of the Legacy Act, or inheritance law. And in order to regulate the relations that have been promoted from the Donation Treaty so far, the provisions of the general civil law, i.e. the OGZ, have been applied so far. The only comment we could make in this area is the fact that on committees there is an undeveloped institute as a special contract, because the fact is that the Leasing Treaty is increasingly emerging in legal traffic between natural and legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, and thus more legal definition of this legal business as well as its detailed work, in fact, the Law on Mandatory Relations removes those ambiguities and precisions that eventually appear in practice. Responsibilities for damages. This separate part of the Act which deals outside the contractual relationship also contains very important changes. Namely, a new definition of damage has been accepted. The damage is defined by objective concepts of non-proprietary damage as a violation of personality rights. According to this concept, non-imminine damage is already self-inflicted personality injury and the suffering pain and fear caused by a harmful action are merely a measure of the severity of the violation of personality rights and are taken into account in addition to other circumstances when determining the level of fair cash compensation. In particular, I stress that, in the event of a breach of their reputation and other rights, the rights of personality also have the right to cash compensation as a form of law enforcement, repair of property damage. In other words, the damage itself comes out of the subjectivity sphere, or satisfactory when we talk about non-imvine damage and new solutions pass in an objective concept of the right to cash compensation that appears here as a form of repair of the non-proprietary damage done. The objective concept of property damage is the result of modern weeks in legal theory and comparatively harmful law and as far as new practices are concerned in the Republic of Croatia, it will undoubtedly result in a great not only interest of the subjects who will implement this institution in practice but will, of course, have in this daily and business life and any other unequivocally great application that will certainly represent the novelty. It's final. This is a very important regulation that includes the crucial and crucial part of the civil law of the Republic of Croatia. Professionality and seriousness in terms of its preparation, the quality of legal solutions undoubtedly gives us the right to think of it as a fundamental step towards reforming the Croatian judiciary when we talk about civil mandatory law. This quality regulation and comprehensive in its work should be put into effect as soon as possible so that the legal institutes presented can be applied in practice. In line with everything presented, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes that this Law be adopted as soon as possible in an appropriate parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29836	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, distinguished representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29837	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, I must start with something that is not directly related to the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Or it's about that law. Or it's about that law. Namely, when the debate in the legislative body is realised in the Croatian Parliament in front of 20% of the MPs and without direct public insight, so there is no public insight in this debate, directly, I stress the direct one, and this is about the bill's proposal, as the respected colleague Tomljenović, Tomljanovic, the representative of the ruling most important, most important act of judicial reform in the civil sector, then I must say that the situation is absurd, politically absurd and for the audience of schizophrenia. The more that, and I agree with that, the law is very well done. The minister says that there has been an important group of Croatian experts in the field of civil law and mandatory relations, which is of course evident. That's what you can see. It is evident that both practitioners and theorists participated. The law is true, you could say consistent. And compact in a legal sense, but not to be apart from this general, principled, accurate commendation of the law itself and the absurd situation to discuss without direct public insight into matter which tomorrow will certainly hit them, although it is only the regulation of interest in the field of civil law that would be responsible for the citizens to hear it. The more I say, immediately, the provision to postpone the application of part of the draft interest law cannot be justified within two years, so it was not even a respected minsitrist. But it is up to us to look at the proposals with a critical view, especially to the opposition. So despite the general commendation of the bill itself and the way it is, as this important law is passed, I think it is important, and this is the task I repeat to look at things from a critical distance. Why do I say that? At the beginning, in 1165 articles of the law, I think that better, more precisely, and in accordance with the offered or already resolved way in the Law of Heritage should be completed and better specified by the standards that regulate, regulate the life-and-life contracts that regulate the contracts until, on life-restraint. Why do I say that? Simply because reality is such that these provisions in practice affect you most often and most of all those who need the help of the social community, and I think, in particular, the state. Unfortunately, in practice, they are often left without restraint and without their property. Such a situation is not provided for by the Inheritance Act because such provisions provide for participation and judges. And his instructions are very important to the situation. Perhaps, perhaps, the situation in this part is even dramatic sometimes because individuals, our fellow citizens in advanced years and in social need remain without restraint and without their own, without their own property. Therefore, I think that even by the moment of the vote, even the motionor might be able to see if, in these provisions, it is necessary to install that the contract must be signed in front of the judge or at least in front of the notary, the public notary. Also, colleagues from, in fact, not colleagues, but colleagues from the HDZ Club mentioned that there are no provisions in the law governing neither operational nor financial. And already at the market, people at the grocery store say that, as they say, they bought a bike on the Leasing. They got in a lying bike. I think that matter simply, and we already have the Law on Electronic Signature, deserves to be found in a mandatory, mandatory relationship law, which is more the matter of mandatory relations. I think he deserves, deserves a few articles in that law. One more thing I think is to improve or at least remove possible dilemmas. Code, in Article 17. The proposal for a law is established, it determines who this law applies to. That is how paragraph 1 of that article states that the Law on Mandatory Relations applies to natural and legal persons. And there's no dilemma, no controversy. Then in paragraph 2, determines that an unborn child... has some right under the Law on Mandatory Relations, which applies to him or, as the legislator says, breakthroughs, which he has breakthroughs, that's right, that term. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which has breakthroughs. And there's nothing to add if a living child is born which is fine. However, it is said that a legal person acquires legal capacity. I think it acquires a legal personality, in the article, in paragraph 5 of that article on the day of its creation or by special regulations about when it is registered or at times and earlier than it is registered, and now I am asking the question: what about associations that do not register or are even foreign associations, and they participate in legal traffic in the Republic of Croatia. So they create obligations and have some legal rights. What is their position under the Mandatory Relations Act? We all know that we've had such a situation, and we still have it today that in some place, a committee is organized that's either edits or asphalts or plows across the street. They participate in legal traffic and create obligations. We have already said about the electoral signatures and, of course, by my court, a very important provision of a very important normative solution is interest. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 27. and the others really edit this matter at the club's point of view suitable for this situation in the Republic of Croatia economically and very importantly, it is said explicitly that the ban on interest on interest, and the provisions will be zero or zero, and it is important that they cannot be legally existed. In my court, no interest has been determined precisely when it comes to contracts that have so-called contracts. foreign exchange clause. The law says that too much of their currency will be determined by interest. Simply if the interest is based on an econtamination rate, which is the basis for determining interest both below and below, and so on, it is not acceptable that the percentage of interest rates should be the same for the currencies side and our or different currencies because inflation does not affect all currencies the same. Then you lose the sense of interest. If interest is a protective value. And that I don't owe much, I think, in the end, once again, that it's not acceptable to postpone the application of the interest decree for two years. You can't see a series of arguments across the law-set valid reasons why we would now have a more liberal act-finding within two years than we think we should do in two years. It is simply a suggestion from the SDP club that the promoter once again, in order to protect the weaker in the game, immediately prescribes interest to be applied as the entire law. And another note on behalf of the SDP club, we are simply sorry that the Rules of Procedure will not be used in the interest of everyone in the Assembly as it says that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and not the Chairman will not take part in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29838	Thank you. We have two corrections to the incisive quote. esteemed representativeplatimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29839	A completely harmless correction to the incorrect allegations, Leko expressed regret that the public had no insight into the debate, direct insight into the debate on this important law. It's partly incorrect, only partially, but in the part where it's true that there's no television transmission, I totally agree with you. However, with a small time delay on the Zagreb radio, you will certainly be able to hear yourself, because the exhibitors on the side of the clubs are hardly short at all, and I am glad that they make such a report after the session is over.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29840	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Niko Rebić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29841	I thank Mr. Leco, in fact, claimed that with an inaccessible small number of representatives and a lack of public presence. I'll just remind you that because the MPs are running out of opposition and it's not now that this first case is missing all the clubs, and as far as the publicity is concerned, so whoever still doesn't remember the message of Stazic isn't that long ago whether the cameras are involved and the journalists are in his room. So the public has insight and it is not any abnormal situation or schizophrenic team before this first reading So it is quite certain that it will be properly followed when the time or second reading is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29842	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29843	My colleague Rebić, I point out the word, directly, you have not corrected me. [[Speaker not enabled]] Directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29844	Thank you. In the name of the club HNS PGSa esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29845	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a huge step in reforming the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia and also a huge law purely physical. A thousand and so many articles. He's got two kilos, and when a man like this, and especially a layman gets in his hands, he's unobserved. I would like to appeal to the future in the bill proposals especially as large but also to those smaller ones as well, and the beginning of the law is a nice place to put the contents. The wording nomenclature to be used in the law shall be placed behind the content. Then we will be much easier to talk about the law and we will have a better review and the law will be able to serve the one whose profession is not entirely professional. It is an observation that rightly intends to improve this huge effort of expertise, knowledge, and experience that are embedded in the bill. Since it's about first reading I wouldn't make any concrete remarks on behalf of the HNS PGSa Club, on specific articles. but I would just draw attention to some misunderstandings that could be corrected for the second reading. And some aspects I'm not sure should stand in the law. I mean, we shouldn't be standing the way they are right now. The reasons for the adoption of the law are already clearly stated I would, along with these four which stand in the explanation of the motions, cite an attempt to give an attempt to add the logic and transparency of the law through renumbering the articles. And that new institutes group together with some old institutes at other places in the law, which makes Mass very well done. In Article 12, one of the comments is the application of customs and practices. The intention is, of course, good customs and practice of established commercial practice and can and should be applied in the mutual relations of traders. However, it seems to me that this provision would be made more precise, so that in the event of any misunderstanding, it can be relatively easy to arbitration with the direct application of the law. It seems to me that the largest, largest new law in this law is Article 19, that is, the leadership of the Institute of Personality for both a natural and a legal person. The way it was done is modern, and it seems to me that it will be extremely useful in legal practice. Something that I don't quite understand may not have understood the intensity, but Articles 22 to 29 talk about interest, it's said in a new, in a good, fair way, I don't have any objections to the content of the articles. But a month ago and a few days or so ago, we talked more about the interest law, where things were solved, it seems to me a little different than they do here. At that moment, I am from this pay phone that there is a discrepancy between this law and this newly passed interest law. It seems to me that this discrepancy will continue, so before the second reading of this law, I think the proposer should try to comply with those two laws. So we have one general law, one, one lex specialis that will not agree again on the most significant provision i.e. in the provision in which the interest is defined. In a particular part of the law, there is something I can freely say great definitions, and it is written by people whose life's profession and life's commitment, such as the will to make deals, such as proving misunderstandings. However, in some articles, it seems to me that there are a little more misunderstandings that could be corrected until the second reading. Article 251(3) speaks of a lack of intention to conclude a contract, which of course makes the contract meaningless and for the right to no longer exist. I am not sure that under this provision it is possible, as defined in this bill, to prove the lack of that intention. I think the definition should be clearer and clearer. Similarly, when it comes to misunderstandings, it seems perfectly clear to the legislator that there is a misunderstanding, but it does not appear anywhere in there. Things can be defined especially in that first, in that first nomenclature and concept, but also on the spot in a particular article, so that there is nothing left, there should be no doubt. In particular, I would like to highlight articles 401 to 437, which talk about goods shortages and consumer protection, something that has a lot of talk and a lot of controversy in the public. It is also established companies which are tasked with protecting consumers. I think that now these legal solutions will improve consumer protection in a good way. Also, articles 881 to 903 discuss organized travel, so the package of tourist arrangements of different types, and it seems to me that this part of the law is perfectly round and that it covers almost everything that happens in the organization of that job. One thing that my colleague Leko mentioned is that there are two types of possibilities to conclude two types of restraint contracts. One thing for life is one thing for life. These contracts are identical, in fact the difference is only at the moment when the assets with the abstention person are transferred to the person who will refrain from life support it seems at the moment of the contract's conclusion, in life support it appears to be the moment of death. I don't see, and knowing a pretty large number of abuses this first one, I don't really see why such a provision should stand in the law at all. Why do we need such contracts and who needs such contracts? Except for those who intend to manipulate old and powerless people. I don't think such contracts are necessary. If you look at newspaper publishers, you will find, so I have to say "cassiers" who offer such contracts to old people, and very, very often we read it and in the papers, and finally each of us knows some such cases that older and powerless persons will lose anything, stay on the road because they used them to apply such a contract. I would ask the motionary to consider and simply remove that kind of contract from the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29846	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29847	Well, briefly and without the polemic tones, as well as the colleague has corrected himself, but it is incorrect to say that the available maintenance contracts, the life support contracts, and you said they were identical. They're not identical, but not just because of what you said, they're two completely different legal jobs, two completely different contracts. And speaking of that, the proposals to be removed from the legislation regardless of the inheritance law or mandatory relations are absolutely absolute, not those are legal gains, so two separate contracts that cannot regulate the criminal responsibility of someone who knowingly and intentionally goes to cheat or alienate them, alienate property. What you mentioned as a problem can certainly be solved but in one quite other way, I suppose also by the provisions of the Penal Code, not by the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29848	Thank you. HSP club, respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29849	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First, I really need to join what Mr. Leko said, this legislative stampede that we are experiencing in this Croatian Parliament will lead to us even knowing what we're talking about and I don't know how many of us are able to read all these points, and we're going to finish today, so we had a point of the Bill on the Classification of Unprocessed Trees, the Final Bill on Public Roads, the Final Bill on Hunting, the Final Proposal for the Maritime Code, and now we come to a very large law and important for the Croatian judiciary and the civilian part, it's the Law on Mandatory Relations. We really won't know what we talked about or what we talked about here anymore. I'm also our club, like we all got on Friday this, be careful with that weight, you should read it. And these are important things, Zdenka, these are very important things in the rule of law and for the functioning of the rule of law, and they can't be solved through their knees in late times. My head is already huge with all these regulations. All you have to do is read, and then you have to say something to make something better. But I'm saying, we should try harder after this session is over, such big things as laws like this, we should really discuss it if we need two days, because it's about the functioning of the rule of law and the application, the stimulation and everything else. Although I must say this here is one of the better laws, the bill addressed to the Croatian Parliament here must be honest and true, with my efforts now, I would not like to repeat the parts Mr Emil spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club Mr Leko and Mr Nikola Vuljanić. I'm just going to taxfully try to make the most important 13 remarks with these things that have already been spoken. So let's get going right now so we can get to State Services, because there's Mr. Palaric. First, it concerns Article 12(3), i.e. the application of customs and practices. It is a dangerous provision to apply the custom, even if it is contrary to dispositive regulations. It is still possible to say that we do not have such express business practices for Croatia. Business practices are very bad in Croatia, so it is too early and too early to start an important trade link on them. We know what our situation is. Article 17(5) applies to legal capacity. I think it should be said that a legal person acquires legal capacity on the day of his enrolment in the relevant register. So simplify that part. Article 20 is the creation of an obligation. I think it should be pointed out that paragraph 1, obligations may arise not only from what is said and based on a decision by the State or arbitration court or other bodies of the state authority. We're going to article 26. That's the rate of contractual interest. So we agree, with the view that it is unnecessary to distinguish between whether the contracting party is a trader or a public right person. I think you should think about that part too. Article 29(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is replaced by the following: Inadmissible permitting otherwise tightened interest. We have to stick to what he thinks, no matter what Schooker thinks has a different opinion, we support you in that part. We will not allow this situation in trade contracts and contracts between traders, public rights of the party can negotiate a different rate of tightening interest. Let's introduce in all areas of order, even in that part. Article 34 The duration of the right to vote, paragraph 2, should be determined which is the appropriate period after which the right to vote is passed on to the debtor, means to specify precisely. Article 69, point (b) of Article 69(1), is replaced by the following: We think the legal action of the debtors should be refuted by a lawsuit, not by this part of the objection. Article 70 is the effect of killing, behind the words "the prosecutor" should add the word "involver", because the interface can also be contained there. The date of application of Article 71 shall be determined in detail by a subjective and objective time limit. It means there wouldn't be legal gaps. Article 214 may be required to fulfil the obligations, although the obligation is obsolete, we know that. The question, will it succeed, see paragraph 3 in the same article. Article 225 needs to be specified precisely when the expiry date is due? Here we know that there are a lot of problems in practice in courts. Article 230(1) shall specify the age of knowledge of damages and of the person who has committed the damage. And Article 586 that I do not repeat this, given the abuses in practice in relation to life support, needs to be more precise in describing the life support contract, means to determine exactly what components are, so as to disable this unfortunately unwanted action that is taking place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29850	Thank you. We're going to an individual debate. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29851	Mr. President, Madam Minister, Mr. Assistant, the president looked at me, and I'm really gonna cut it short. There is already a lot that the predecessors have said, and indeed everyone has expressed themselves commendably and this is not the first document that is good and good and that comes from the Ministry of Justice, which is actually a great encouragement throughout this judicial reform that is being conducted. The law is really good, and I have to admit it is more like a consolidated text of the current Law on Mandatory Relations, because it is really mainly about institutes already regulated in the institutions that are being taken over and I really support this newspaper as regards interest, which concerns the right to personality, and I am glad that this is regulated on the basis of the currents of the European Union and that we will also have such modern regulation in that part. So I think that the Law is really done here and by one very authoritative meaning of a group of authors, I believe that in the second reading it won't experience any more significant changes and only as far as it's concerned, here they may look back on what was said that there was no lease agreement as such regulated in the Law, that's true, because leasing is not our word either. However, there is Article 462 which says, which regulates the purchase of... property rights de facto would be the closest to content in relation to leasing. Leasing is not our word. Also on the Legislative Committee, there was really little debate on the life- and life-restraint contract, and these are really some difficult contracts in practice that call for numerous disputes, painful disputes, and there are really very difficult relationships between people. That might be something you should really look at for another reading. Not to end these contracts, these are contracts that exist in tradition, which are concluded and which have their own justification. However, it may be necessary to step up the procedure a little bit in their conclusion, to include a social care centre that may possibly give an opinion or that parties first report to the Centre for Social Care in the conclusion of the contract, so that they are actually more informed as possible, informed of the content of these long-term and life-restraint contracts. Because despite all these institutes that we've had so far regarding a life contract that was concluded before a court judge, there have been a lot of litigation, where such contracts have been terminated, where there have been evidence of both flaws, wills and other things that have been resolved in the courts. So I think those are some points where you might need to work for a second reading. And the second thing I see is actually very, very correct and I really don't think there's any big objections to the law. And I'm saying, this is encouraging that the Department of Justice comes to us with acts like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29852	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. And a respected representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29853	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The bill's proposal has been said quite a bit today in the debate, most have supported it, rated it as a good legal proposal. So I'll be brief in my debate. The current Law on Mandatory Relations was passed long ago in 1978, although this Law was in practice very well accepted. However, time has shown that he has many shortcomings to correct. A large number of amendments and additions to the Law over the years have made the law untransparent, and in order to begin joining the accession procedure of the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has made a gradual commitment in its legal order to install the entire acquis of the European Union, and this includes the harmonisation of the Law on Mandatory Relations with the provisions of the European Union. There is also a need for a termological alignment of the text of the law with the standards of Croatian legal expression. The proposal for a law that is in line with the European Union directives introduces new institutes and retains some of the good solutions that exist. It surrounds the legislative regulation of the area of civil civil law. Otherwise, the proposed Law is very extensive and contains over a thousand and 200 articles. The proposed text of the Law also made changes in the systematisation of content, renumberation of articles, and some substantive amendments to the text of the applicable Law were made. The most important newspaper in the Bill's proposal concerns the installation of legal personality and the installation of tight and agreed interest. The law regulates various areas through a thousand 165 articles, as well as the question of interest on who will tie to the econtamination rate of the Croatian National Bank. The interest will depend on whether it is contracts for the economy, trade contracts, contracts with the state and the like. In these cases, the escort rate will increase by 8 percentage points, in constant contracts by 5 percentage points to the Croatian National Bank's econcentration rate. The decision on interest will, however, take effect two years after the publication of this law, as financial circles estimate that the Econcentration Rate of the National Bank is currently not relevant for the situation on the market. Strong interest on the proposal will be accounted for at the same rate, regardless of whether it is foreign exchange or kuna contracts, which would seem to me to avoid practice so far when different rates have been established depending on the currency. Furthermore, the novelty is that the exchange rate liabilities will be determined exclusively by the sale rates of the National Bank. In fact, in previous credit agreements, the exchange rate was determined according to the exchange rate list of the bank with which the contract was concluded. The amendments require that, according to a law that is gradually in line with the guidelines of the European Union, the maximum contractual penalty will be imposed automatically and no committee or legal acts would have to exist which, as provided for by the Interest Act, would have been necessary. The law also prohibits the calculation of interest on interest when existing interest rates are charged in such a way that the provision does not apply to deposits with banks and other financial institutions. Unlike interest on which the application is delayed by two years under this proposal, the provisions on the compensation of non-intangible damage will immediately enter into force, for example in cases of injuries in traffic accidents. The news is that in these cases interest is taken into account with the date of the action, not as before from the day of the first-degree ruling. The Law on Mandatory Relations has also specified a circle of persons entitled to compensation for suffering physical pain, due to death or particularly severe disability of close relatives. According to the law, they are marriage mates, children, and parents, both conditional and siblings, if they live with the dead in a permanent community. As we can see here, grandfathers, banks, grandchildren are not put in this circle, even though we know they're in a pretty emotional relationship, whether they live in a joint household. This was not respected by the 78th Mandatory Relations Act, and this law does not respect it either. Maybe you should think about it. The new law introduces several new institutes such as loan contracts, a donation still subject to the 19th - century Austrian law on life insurance and life insurance. The new Institute of Legal personality also refers to natural and legal persons and related to the compensation of immaterial damage in cases of damage to personal reputation and reputation of the company. Every natural person has the right to life, physical and mental health, reputation, honor, dignity, name, privacy of family life. Protection in that sense is also given to legal persons. It's a shame the law doesn't say anything about lising, electronic signature, all that, and I agree with my co-workers that maybe there's something in the law that needs to be said. The bill also complies with the standards of Croatian legal term. For example, instead of the so far referred to as nothingness, the term nothingness is foreseen, instead of the term material and immaterial damage, the names of property and non-equity damage etc., etc. are foreseen. You wouldn't last any longer. I believe that this is an important legal project, that the proposal is very high quality and professionally decorated, and we see by text that it was attended by distinguished Croatian experts. I believe that the law will come to a second reading, respecting certain remarks made in this debate, even more qualitatively in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29854	Thank you very much. I'd like the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, for final consideration. Here you go, Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29855	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I really thank you for these constructive proposals, for the debate that has been held in these late hours on this very important law, and for helping the representatives of the ministry to install all your proposals very usefully into the final version of the law that was made for eight years and nine years, respectively. Switzerland has been doing it for twenty years, and I really think that by the second reading, all these suggestions will be put in place, the task force will consider them. I thank you once again, and I believe that we will not wait long for the Law on Mandatory Relations to experience here in the Parliament and another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29856	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law on mandatory relationships, first reading, P.Z. No. 226. The debate is closed. I am voting on the next conclusion, the proposal for a law on mandatory relations is adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. To vote. Score. I find that with 81 votes for and 4 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29859	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives! The adjustment of the Croatian state administration to European standards is a permanent task of this government. The adjustment has already begun with the government's appointment, the reduction of the number of ministries and central organisations. The second phase took place continuously during this autumn, which covered a solution to the right to access information, protection of personal data, more extensive information by the authorities of the state administration, in particular the integration of databases, the adoption of a strategy for the education of civil servants and the addition of public officials' eyewitnesses. As an important segment of this second stage of adaptation is also the Law on State Service, which is before you, which represents the completion of the CARDS project in 2001, which was done together with European Commission experts, domestic scientists and experts and represents one in our court a major step in the professionalisation of the state service and depolitisation of the state service. The basic feature of this law is that he will treat future civil servants as people who have chosen his profession in the state service, who will work as young people at the start of his career on the basis of a public tender and on the basis of an objective check of knowledge and ability, that after entering the state service he will spend his whole life training, lifelong learning and subsequent progress, and that the state service will fill especially higher jobs with an internal selection contest between the existing, among the public employees who are already employed. And if that's not possible, then the public competition. The foundation of advancement will be a set of knowledge, skills, disciplines, so something called a merid site in the Western world. We want to avoid this current situation, which is happening that, about 25 thousand civil servants are conducting disputes with state authorities, with the government, with the country in the finality and therefore we introduce two new institutes as one mediator in the state service, it will be a state official who will appoint a leader but from the ranks of officials, from the ranks elected by the officials themselves, and he will mediate in resolving the ongoing disputes between the civil servant and the body in which he works and as a special importance, I am stressing the Committee on State Service, it will be a professional body that will address complaints against first-degree solutions brought by body leaders. Gentlemen, I would not like to bother you with the details, the law is handed over in the first reading to debate thoroughly as one, the side effect of this Law will also be to reduce the number of state officials because we will, by virtue of this Law and by following the amendment of other laws, raise the level of professionality to European standards. This Law was also supported by the civil servants' union, was thoroughly discussed at scientific and professional meetings and supported by the Economic Social Council, so I ask that this Parliament also support it and adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29860	Thank you, Secretary of State. Does anyone want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, President of the Committee, Honored counterpart Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29861	Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system at the 22nd session discussed the Bill on State Service. The debate raises doubts about the need to regulate state services in judicial bodies, professional services of the Croatian Parliament and professional services of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. It is expressed the view that the state service of those bodies should be regulated by respecting its specificities in view of the constitutional division of the authorities and in accordance with Article 2(2). A bill of law. There were also objections to Article 13(1), which was pointed out to be excessive because civil servants should not have a special right to establish and join political parties, associations, not government organisations or professional associations, as this right belongs to them under fundamental constitutional provisions. In addition, it is necessary to review the provision of Article 14(3). The proposal for a law setting out that the elected civil servant rests his labour rights during the term of office after the state and local elections in order to agree to a resolution with the provisions of the electoral laws. The debate also expressed the view that public service must be available to all under the same conditions and that such access can only be ensured by public tender and not by means of an internal tender which could only redistribute civil servants within the state administration. The Committee also considers that the provision of Article 46(2) is not in the spirit of the legal system since the status of officials is obtained by choice or appointment. The above paragraph would therefore be contrary to the existing laws which regulate the issue unless the duties of civil officials would be precisely counted on it. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the establishment of a Committee on State Services, whose composition would only be entered by graduate lawyers while the Committee president would have to have a judicial examination. The Committee considers that other highly educated persons may also be members of that committee. The draft law also did not resolve the Institute of Suspension on the occasion of the conduct of a strict or criminal procedure, and the proposer should also regulate that institute by the time the final draft was drawn up. In the provision of Article 121 of the Law which provides for the termination of the state service by force of the law, a case should be installed where a person for admission to the State Service gives false information that, in that case, the exs lege ceases the state service in a way that is not even based. In the final provisions, or Article 142, respectively. The proposal for a law should be shortened from the date of entry into force of the law to its application because the period of one year is inadequately long and it is questionable whether the whole law may be inapplicable for such a long period of time. After the debate, we unanimously propose to the Parliament that this Law be adopted in the first reading and that we deliver our proposals and opinions at the Committee session to the Proposer in order to respect the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29862	Thank you, dear colleague. Anyone else want to speak on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected counterpart, Bosnjakovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29863	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I could have stayed. The HDZ Club will first support this Law in its first reading, and we are glad to actually have such an important law going into regular procedure, which means that the Proposer has quite enough time to install these remarks that we have made. The HDZ Club holds these remarks, which the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has sent, keeps them very serious, and we believe that when the proposal for a final draft of the law really needs to be discussed and, if justified, to be incorporated into the final draft of the law. Good, efficient administration, the administration that is the service of all citizens, these are actually the programme objectives of all political parties, all entities, and that is one goal that we are all seeking together. But it's really not easy to achieve, it's one process, it's one process to build a system of state apparatus that needs to be improved every year and it needs to be added something new, something quality. This Law is certainly one of the most important in this process, in this process and we believe that this proposal, which came from the state office, that it is indeed for the right debate, for the first reading to be very correct and that it is based on liquids, means European legislation, and we believe that, with certain changes in the second reading, it can indeed be, it can be good quality. However, in order to get what we have said and what we are all looking for is an efficient, quality state administration that will not be enough in itself, this regulates the status issues, working relationships, these regulates tight procedures, ways of establishing a working relationship and all that, I think that those other acts that follow and that's actually the schedule of these jobs are actually coefficients and wages, I think that there should be, that there should really be the same quality law, and we have led management to the fact that we have enormously reduced salaries to our civil servants. And actually management has become an unattractive profession. When we look at people who want some bigger things to leave the administration, very easily foreign companies that operate on our market very easily and for something a little better or more, better conditions get them. So I think that these laws are clear to us in fact and what the function of the state budget is, we realize that there is no money for everything and what the pressures from the International Monetary Fund are. However, in any case, I think the funds need to be found and I think it is necessary in this new classification that will go, that it is necessary to locate those most important places in the state administration and that the most important places should be properly paid. Because the quality of our administration, we'll first feel it here on our benches. The more professional management we have, the more professional people we get in the ministries, the better laws we get, there will be fewer amendments and there will actually be more positive discussions in this House. And I really won't be obliged, I think that this law in the first reading is very correct and these remarks that have actually been made by the Constitution Committee should certainly be considered, should be considered whether they have a reason to be incorporated into the Final Bill proposal and I think that we are on track to get to that goal, to one quality state administration, to one effective state administration, and in any case this is a very important law that we simply have to pass on that path. Mr. Vice President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29864	Thank you, dear colleague. On behalf of the HSP Club, a respected colleague, Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29865	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, my colleagues and colleagues have been reorganizing the state administration since 1990, and the situation is getting worse. Since 1990 and 1995, there have been some reconstructions, and the symposium is being held, so seminars and workshops are being held, so what God knows is how much money has been spent and the patient has almost not died. Let's say this last project, according to my knowledge, was spent somewhere over $1. billion, not a billion, but a million and a half. And is that worth a million and a half euros or not? They worked as experts on the side, experts and probably ended up at Palaric and his deputy to try to save what could be saved. And they've done it relatively well, so this is for a pre-reading debate, that is, a work version that can be used to make a quality regulation. What does it matter to say? If we want the rule of law to work for us first, we need the government to work for us. It means that she's in the full sense of the word "civil service" and that she's doing most of things on official duty. In this way we will also enable the functioning of the judiciary because if the state administration doesn't work for us and we know that it doesn't work the way it should work then there are multiple cases in, in courts. And then the courts are buried and then what happens in this legislative stampede happens. That bad state administration is making legal proposals that pass the government express, come here and then no one knows anything anymore. And just put yourself in the role of one judge, of all the laws we've passed, how long will it take him to read all that? He decides on human fates, and such proposals mean to me whether it's in criminal disputes, whether it's civilities disputes, labour disputes, but it's always about people's fates in one way or another. And with this way, we really won't do anything. And now what does this proposal look like to me? He says we'll arrange how the state administration would like to deal with rights and obligations, who can work, how and everything else, and we come to the most important part. So we have a rye, and we don't have a rabbit. When are we going to have a rabbit? When you know how many states you can spare money to have a paid and quality state administration. How much money is there? Look, we're not gonna be able to do this in 2005, so there's no way that we're going to be able to do something systematic to raise salaries first of all for those on whom the state administration should rest, which means part of the creation is about making legal regulations, application, whether it's about administrative oversight, whether it's an implementation, and if we go back to this number of laws that we're passing, then look at every law we have regulations. The deadlines are 6 months to the government, 3 to 6 months for ministers, and then you will be able to figure out that they do not pass within the time limit that we set legally, which is then an instructive deadline for them so that certain areas are covered by maybe 30, 40% of the regulations, and that legally means when there are no sublegal regulations that the law is inadmissible. And then it's getting more and more complicated. We change those regulations but never bring in implementing acts and it's all going to that state administration again. Who's worth saving because the pay's nothing and we're going to start over again. So tell me how much money you're going to have, has anyone told you in the government to form a quality state administration? When and within what deadlines will these payment systems change, will it be classes? Will it be coefficients, will it be this, will it be that, but must it be known? We agree with this part that ministerial assistants and directors are not in the club of officials, but will again report as a boomerang. This means that only people from Zagreb will behave in those duties. That's the problem. So only the people of Zagreb can act on these duties, and does anyone from, say, come from Slavonia as an assistant minister who will know how to do their job? He's not coming. As he comes, he can't even get an apartment, he can't get anything. And for a salary that envisions the question of what it will be like when those coefficients are determined. So again, one principle that seems good to me, let's not, throw out the circle of assistant ministers, directors and everything else. This means that everything will concentrate again in Zagreb in the full sense of that word. And what did we do? And then one said, a colleague said to me, "Maybe one day we do decentralisation and the Ministry of Agriculture will be in Osijek." That's what I said when she was born. That's what it looks like to me. So we're going back into certain areas and we don't have both the simulated and the rounded part. I know it's not just a problem here, but it's pressure and the World Bank and everything and all these other factors of the international but we're not going to do anything about it this way. We're not gonna do anything. And we're not going to get a government that's going to be a citizen, and we're not going to get a government that's going to work effectively, and we're going to act, and in particular, be careful that you don't have state-owned exams here, in this part I haven't seen. Well, for all calls, not to say except legal and this social knowledge, but for all the other calls that come to work in the state administration, whether it's about advisors, senior advisors especially inspectors, so they have to know, they have to take a state expert exam. They need to know how it works, what's the ZUP? What's the record? What's the solution? When is the solution made? How is the solution forced to be executed? All these things in the process must be done. And I think even here there's a part of why we're getting unquality regulations, and that the state administration is deliberately obstructing because it sees that it can't fix its position, so in many situations I think it's even deliberately doing bad regulations and it's obstructing here. So let's not run from the truth. We won't get anything by this regulation if it's just this part of what the official's obligations are if he doesn't have the right, that means how much he'll be paid to know if he commits himself creatively that he'll be able to support his family or you'll go away. It's either a private agency or it's going to go to a company or anywhere else. A capable man will not allow to work for 4,5 thousand kuna when it comes to regulations that are of particular importance where both effort and time and knowledge and everything else is invested in order to do the right job. And that's why it's not easy for them either. I'm saying, we just support the proposal, but not what's contained inside, and when it's gonna be, nobody knows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29866	Thank you, dear colleague. It's up to the esteemed colleague Lesar on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29867	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State, I believe that this first finding will be agreed by all of you and supported by the desire to reach a fast, efficient and cheap state administration in Croatia to introduce laws and other organisational moves since the time of the fall-up of Austria-Hungarian. Well, I don't think we've ever done it, and I've been told by some that no one's ever been able to make the state administration quick, efficient and cheap. It is also a fact that in the clash with the state bureaucracy, the citizen is the most indisposed and that he feels helplessly helpless because that blow or collision experienced him personally or not, from talking to citizens or people who address us is really the most difficult thing to solve. In the light of the law in the opening work, it is mentioned that the experience of the OCD was used, and beyond that few of the European Unions were used. And indeed this law of opportunity is the order of the articles of America then it's a little order of Canada, then there's little Italy, a little bit of France, a little bit of Germany, but in most of the way, it's still our art where we have some experience and even Ireland tried to copy it into a unique way. dA would have an efficient, fast and cheap state administration, then I think we should satisfy nine, ten basic conditions in the first place I'm going to put a good organization of state administration. Trained and trained civil servants, responsibilities for work, the possibility of advancement in the profession and service without the influence of the policies of clear authority of the state administration, control and supervision of the exercise of these powers and jobs and openness to the public, therefore to the public and to the citizens. In that execution of the obligations that the state administration has. There's only so little in this law. And on a good lead, but it's not enough for a second reading, but what I don't even know about in this law is when I said good organization as a prerequisite for good administration. the affairs of responsibility and competence of the heads of state administration. Because this law deals with government officials. It does not remove outside the specific responsibility of those who are managers, the heads who are obliged to organise, who are obliged to establish good conditions that are required to monitor the controls that give assessments of which or which depend on the possibility of progress. And even the termination of the state service if you reassess someone twice that they're not satisfied. It seems to me that the law deals with commons, in the state service, but those mags executives that they've escaped or they'll run off into some other law. I don't have the illusion that these nine remarks that I'm going to make, or the ambiguities or fears I'm going to make, will be considered in the first place, let alone accepted. Because it is a practice that everything proposed by the opposition, when it enters the text of the law for a second reading, is left out but because of its personal conscience of contributions or attempts to influence better law, I will make those 9 remarks. The first applies to Article 13 and to Article 14 of Article 13 states that the civil servant must not be on the leading or highest executive duties of the political parties. This term, I understand in my mind, is meant by the president of the party. But most executive duty, it could be interpreted as not even a member of the management of the branch in the Bistra Desert. Whether or not I do not know but the term in the law, the most executive duties are such as gum gum gum that can be interpreted depending on the situation on the ground or the state service, whether in the state or in Zagreb, or in the state service in some county office of the state administration. But the article behind that, he says, that a civil servant has the right to smoke an election of state and local. So he can't be on executive duty, but he can run for election. Interestingly very interesting. Therefore, he can run for election but in a party in the branch, he cannot be a member of the executive board. He can't be a secretary, he can't be a cashier, he can't be a member of the honor court right now, I don't know what not until this is clear. In this article, Article 14 also states that the elected civil servant rests the mandate of labour rights throughout the entire term of office after being chosen by sources. During the entire term of office. Unity. And what if this charming officer is elected consecutively to three terms? And in the civil service today, you have a situation for people who went out of service 14 years ago. So one mandate, four mandates, three mandates, three years, four years, five years, but interesting that in the labour law and all other regulations, what is given to civil servants is that the workplace of which has been erased for all workers of this state. And when a labourer enters the elections and wins and enters the mandate, he can no longer return to the workplace the same or the like, but a civil servant does. Because it's the law on labor that has the right of the ardners to be erased. So you mustn't be a member of the party's leadership you can run an election you'd like to see, but the job is waiting for him. Article 22 obliges civil servants to keep a secret, state official and other secret. Five years after the end of the service, everything they learn about the parties and their rights and obligations and everything they learn in the ministry. And I'm asking, does this mean that a civil servant who's found out about taking bribes from his boss or whose boss has ordered him to do something illegal or over the line solves an object, and he knows that someone who's taking bribes can't say it in public and report it? Because he has to keep every other secret. Reminding Croatia has joined and signed a civil legal convection on the corruption of the Council of Europe in 2003. In which it states that the internal legislation will protect any citizen who reveals such secrets when there is a reasonable suspicion of corruption or who reports in good faith his suspicions to responsible persons and authorities. I quoted the provision of Article 9 of the above-mentioned Convention. This law does not protect whistles in the civil service. Recently and several years ago, Croatia had a situation where people discovered the secrets of some other, official, business and state, behind which corruption and false data and such a law each state official who discovered such a secret would be fired by such a law. My third remark is Article 26, which speaks of the obligation of civil servants to behave in a way that does not diminish their reputation and reputation of the service and that the ethical code will be prescribed by the Government. Well, since it is a commitment that officials have to comply with, I think it would be very good for the government to bring the ethical code after consulting the Economic Social Council, which costs nothing to the government, and gives social partners the opportunity to be involved in the decision-making and decision-making process of the Ethics Code. The fourth of my observations is Article 28 which speaks of the right of an official to refuse any order or execution of any order which commits or commits a criminal offence, an offence and all that is fine, but does not give the right of a civil servant to refuse to execute the order of his or her superior if the execution of that order would be contrary to the ethical code referred to in Article 26, and that is possible. And this is possible for a civil servant to get a warrant from his direct executive, even written as required by which a civil servant can assess that his execution would be contrary to the code of ethics. Therefore, in Article 28, the right of the official to refuse to execute the order of the manager if it is contrary to the code of ethics. In point (c) of Article 28, paragraph 2 provides for the conduct of a civil servant if such a warrant has been issued by a minister or head of the central government and says that the official is then addressing the Government. And what if such a warrant was given by the Prime Minister or the Deputy Prime Minister, who then? Government again? There's no solution. The next thing I know, if I'm not mistaken, that's a number 5 or 6 referring to Article 35. The duty to report a possible conflict of interest and to list all the obligations of a civil servant to report any situation and even two years before his admission to a state service in which he could find himself in a conflict of interest or his participation in the decision could be interpreted as a conflict of interest. Who does he have to report it to? Your direct handler? What does a direct manager do with that application? Where's he putting her? That application doesn't go to an eyewitness who's a secret. Is it not normal for us to go with the additional provision in Article 35 that all the information contained in such applications in Article 35 is a secret and that the person who received it does not have the right to dispose of it outside the service? Or another variant that he's part of the eyewitnesses of every clerk. My sixth remark relates to the obligation of a civil servant to report before his or her marriage mate, his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/ his/ his/her/her/her/ his/her/her/her//////////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/her/ his/ Therefore, before the entry into service, after the examinations have been passed and the decision to accept the state service or before. Will this obligation be a recommendation to someone if they are a member of a party or a ban on receiving a state service if they write the name of the wrong party? And when does he have to give it? I'm not saying this is malicious, but I'm warning you it can be misused. Article 37 prohibits a civil servant from encouraging other officials to participate in the work of political parties, which is good, and says the association, means trade unions. A civil servant, who happens to be a union commissioner, must not engage other colleagues to join the union. I have not found such a provision in the European Community in any law in the European Union. This is a ban on trade union action in the state service and given the time, Article 63 of the selection of intermediaries to resolve possible conflicts in the protection of individual rights. The law offers the choice of intermediaries to every 50 civil servants and here I only have to and can support the objection of the civil servants' union, all others are quite bad, where they propose and demand that point 8 be completed in Article 63, that, by choice of a civil servant, he may also be a union commissioner in the selection of intermediaries. Mr. Secretary of State, take the Conventions of the International Labour Organisation in Dispute Intermediation You will see that this bill is contrary to that convention which Croatia has joined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29868	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, the representative and vice president Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29869	Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let me immediately say that I would prefer to have a general debate at the SDP Club on this bill. Of course, the question arises whether there is a need and purpose in determining at the last session of this autumn's session that a general debate is being held, given that a constitutional pause occurs when Parliament does not meet and thus we get the time that is necessary and can be used to supplement this law if it is accepted to pass the first reading and to go to the second reading. Why are we here for this general discussion, not just for first reading? Because in fact one project that is related to the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with an international financial organisation such as the World Bank, which among other things lends to the Republic of Croatia in implementing the reform of the state administration, and one of these projects for the sake of reforming the state administration is also this bill, should certainly be supported and the way and possibility to realise it should be possible. However, he must not be so prepared as to question whether he is in compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, whether he is in compliance with, enough with, internationally accepted conventions, whether he is sufficiently consistent with our legal system in a broader sense, in the end, whether he or she has sufficient economic and social justness and justification. So let's take the turn. First of all, we feel that each of these questions can hardly be defended by being in harmony with all of this if certain examples are taken and some examples are cited from the law itself. The first question that opens up is the very name of the law. We have received the Law on State Service and at the same time in the Constitution in Article 116 is explicitly prescribed that the structure of the affairs and affairs of the state administration and the way they are done is governed by the law. It is a special law, it is not this law, and also paragraph 3 of the Law and other regulations regulates the status of civil servants and the equal status of substitutes. Therefore, the question arises, in fact, where is the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law, except in the general provision of the Constitution, that such or other law can be passed, such as the provision of Article 2(4). The Constitution. Therefore, it is obvious that the issue is actually opening up the fundamental question of what should be the content of the proposal for this law, should be some general principles that apply to the arrangement of the internal structure in the way of performing the tasks, so if you want the organisation and implementation and functioning of the state administration that can be applied in the general public service at any place but at the same time all other laws should leave that differentio specificum as an opportunity to be particularly regulated. And that is not enough as provided for in Article 2 so that, as it says here, it can be possible for the highest authorities to edit differently. It is not only the highest authorities of the state, but rather other forms of state duties, such as the judicial administration, it must not be in the Supreme Court alone, but in the general judicial administration, such as in representative bodies, so not only in the representative bodies of the Assembly's professional service, but in all representative bodies, etc., all of which include the Constitutional Court, i.e. professional services and state duties, administrative duties carried out in the professional service. The second question that arises from this part in itself is that this foundation is then called on to be one of the constitutional grounds for the adoption of this Act Article 116(1), which speaks of the structure and mode of work, obviously a failed constitutional, call on a constitutional basis. Other arguments which warn also to be taken into account and which immediately point to the issue of harmonisation are, among other things, to take over certain provisions, such as the prohibitions of discrimination and advocacy, which in part did not even overwrite the provisions of the Constitution. And let alone certain constitutional laws such as the issue of the Law on the Rights of Minorities, or such as the question of certain other provisions that we have and in such a segment, it is certain that this would, in fact, already in force, devalue the higher rank norms in relation to a specific situation, which is unacceptable and must not be accepted. Thirdly, which is also clear in itself, and the colleagues were already talking about, for example, Article 13, the right to association. On the one hand, the right to association in the public services referred to in paragraph 1 and, at the same time, paragraph 2 may be excluded by a far more significant constitution guaranteed by the electoral right of any person and citizen to be able to choose and to be elected, this applies not only to elections for representative and state bodies, but also to political parties which are not only possible to be established by the Constitution, but also to be found as the specific foundations of a constitutional order based on a multi-party democracy in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is in itself clear that this issue should be brought into line with both the Constitution and the Laws on political parties, as well as the Law on Elections. Because why? Because the next Article 14 already speaks of a privileged position if the election is attended by employees working in the state services in relation to all other employees or more specifically the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are not in the electoral system anymore. Fourthly, which is also very serious, we will again point out on a particular example, for example, the protection of the state service itself from something that is kind of going through in two places that are actually very dangerous. State service or state administration, the State Administration must primarily be trained, organised, professional, equipped and trained to enforce laws and ensure the rule of law and the rule of law. And it must not be allowed, theoretically, that the State Administration, and at least if it is taken to apply it to the entire state service, and therefore to the judicial administration among other things, would implement the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as set out in this Act. It cannot implement politics, it must enforce laws, and it is a matter of the ruling coalition of the party or whatever it is in the government to prepare such laws, to ensure their legislative regulation through a legislative body that will then be implemented in practice, and to show through instruments that need to be implemented, these are laws. Unfortunately, in Article 39(2), we wrote here that the central authority of the state administration responsible for official relations is uniquely implementing the government policy of the Republic of Croatia. The colleagues are actually an empire that opens not only the possible volunteerism of political, but at the same time the complete dependence of the state administration in fact on the current political will, not on the rule of law and the rule of law, which is certainly the first step and the worst step and the most important step of legal uncertainty, in fact, those who need to be served are citizens. In addition, in the second place, additional administrations in Article 33(3), where detailed restrictions are made for the performance of certain activities or operations, will be laid down by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a regulation, or by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, relating to the duties required to act independently. He can't. It can't, it's explicitly written, the Constitution says it's governed by the law. Therefore, it cannot be limited by this regulation, but must be regulated by law, and in this respect we support that these issues be further resolved by law, but cannot be regulated by a regulation on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it is unnecessary and contrary to the Constitution in the autonomy of the administration, because the administration must be hierarchically accountable to the Government, but for the implementation of the Law, not for the implementation of its policy. Thirdly, or fourthly, the number of issues is, for example, the same thing that is quite interesting, a solution that affects not only the political-government system, but also the political-legal system, so the constitutional-legal system is founded. You know, something that is amazing in Article 46(2) is said, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may authorise certain civil servants to temporarily perform the duties of a state official but for 6 months at most. First of all, there is no tax which the official could potentially determine by ad hoc government, but re-nomination to v.d. Actually, it's the institute v.d. which is being introduced here, and the question of whether a state official can be a V.D., it's little, it's not. Another question that, is there any possible abuse? Of course it's possible. And the third question is, among other things, a whole series of officials who are not in the classical state administration in that classical sense, who are related, for example, to the judicial administration, who are related to the administration of the Constitutional Court or, for example, to the General Court. Imagine now, as I know, it may happen, for example, that, and you will see why we are alluding to this, that the Government appoints Secretary of Parliament, not Parliament v.d., or this, is not v.d., but these say temporarily for 6 months. Why do I say that, if that's possible, it happens. Why is it that you have another institute in Article 71, which is said, among other things, that the Government will regulate regulations on the development of jobs within each category of civil servants, etc. So where did the government first of all come from knowledge and ability? And in addition to how contrary it is to the Law on Courts, with the powers of the State Attorney's Council, the State Judicial Council, etc. All the way to certain courts, so the President of the Court, for example, regulates such rights in the judicial area. That's impossible. And this didn't single out these special cases. Let us also set a fifth or sixth example that also refers to the issue of constitutionality. It's the application of the Institute of Internal Competition. You know, the real thing behind this is to try to protect an existing state in the administration that doesn't have to work. And that's half if a little closure of the state administration. That's not good. If it is already to be made, possible redistribution of people in the administration when there is an surplus, when there is a need in another body, etc., then we open up a normal institute of redistribution of employees with the consent of the head of state authorities and of course the worker himself, and there is no need to enter the Institute of Internal Competition, because it is primarily the opposite of the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution clearly states that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right under equal conditions to participate in public affairs, and we have, guaranteed access to the public service. Therefore, there are no internal competitions. My people, it's not in the state administration, it's anywhere. If you have extra workers, by nature things you can perform redistribution of these jobs, or... officials or... and you will do so without any internal competition. But you will call a public tender for every time you need to fill out a new open job to fill in or freed a job, for example because of natural selection... people are leaving. It's also not possible to talk here about the knowledge check, and also that there are no objective criteria of the knowledge check other than that related to tests, psychological conversations, etc. There must be an expert exam, not because the heads of state wants it, not because the government would ask for it, but because it must be a guarantee to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that officials in the state administration are trained to carry out appropriate procedures in the protection or exercise of their right, I do not know the administrative procedures etc. And that's why there's an expert exam. And that's why he has to stay and that's why he has to be installed here. But it must also be equalised, for example, with the admission of some objective criteria offered here with all other cases and with government officials and, of course, with other employees in the Republic of Croatia, so you can't be here when you're supposed to be sentenced to prison for six months and more to lose your job and you're supposed to be here if he's two years and more. So how? What's that for? Which is why, at the same time at the beginning, we are talking about a ban on discrimination, etc., etc. Of course, especially, I'm going to have to worry about having a little time, especially I'd have to warn you about the fact about the suspension institute. We've got everything here, but there's no suspension. If an official who has done business is found to harm the national body of the body, or worse at the expense of a citizen or worker, someone who seeks the protection of his right or the exercise of his right or God for any other reason or even illegal or illegal criminal offences. We don't have a suspension then that we can, here we don't predict that you can give suspension and distance from work. Of course, procedures are further conducted in determining what form of responsibility is and of course what responsibility it is to apply. However, I say a special question to which I must further point is the question of transitional and final provisions and there is something that is firstly new to be applied, which is that Article 135 of the Government would be required to adopt before the entry into force of this law, so as soon as the law enters into force, the government is bound by a whole series of implementing acts, and by an ethical code, through a regulation, to adopt it before the application of the law itself. So, colleagues it's a complete ignorance of actually the Constitution. People forget that we in the Constitution have prescribed in Article 89 that before laws and these other regulations enter into force, these offices of state bodies, so also the administrations, and not only the Government, must be published in the National Journal of Officials. How are you going to publish something that you've brought on the basis of something you haven't started using yet? Well, we'll be embarrassed in public. It doesn't need to talk about that part at all, and it's quite clear that it can't be that way. Furthermore, Article 134 reiterates that this Regulation referred to in Article 71(3), which further elaborates the work within individual categories of the Government of the Republic, should be adopted within six months of the entry into force of this Law, and I further indicate that the Government will systematise and develop the jobs in the judiciary, how it will work in the professional service of the Assembly, both in the area of the Constitutional Court and so on, etc. The time goes by unsuspectingly, but I must say, it is similar to that of Article 137, 138, 140, and also to Article 136, 133. All this suggests, therefore, that this law has tried to cover individual issues and the content of a project financed by the International World Bank, which has taken more care of the project than the legal content that needs to be regulated in the state service and in such a situation, it is quite clear that it must experience serious progress until the second reading so that it can be adopted and that it can at all be applicable and enforceable in Croatia as a legislative instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29870	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. On behalf of the DC Club HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29871	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The DC and HSLS Club welcomes the adoption of this very important law, and we clearly call on everyone to make a contribution within their capabilities and capabilities to obtain one law in a Croatian way. We believe that this law belongs to that group of laws or regulations that should be faster, more effective in starting Croatia. This law is expected to reform the state administration more efficiently and we believe that it is very important and important. With the current state of the state service, there's little one important in the state administration. I will remind you, I think we have not forgotten the last pre-election campaign for this meeting of the Croatian Parliament that almost every political party within its programme activities has mentioned the reform of the state administration. Otherwise, here we are now, this reform is under way and I think that regardless of the political omen of any of us MPs that I should say should avoid that politicisation and fight for Croatia to get a truly quality law without which it certainly won't be able to go any further. You are all aware that the entire Croatian public is also aware of the many objections that many citizens are our citizens who deal with society and citizens themselves as such and, in addition, our observers from the European Union have often resented us when it comes to state administration or state service. The most common objections were that the state service received insufficiently capable and insufficient professional personnel, then that we had too much involvement in politics and progress and employment based on similarity, whether political or similar. On this basis, it is clear that there is an intertwination of private and public interest in the provision of public service, which often leads to conflicts of interest, means that there is great work and the spread of corruption in society itself. Then, one of the objections is that there is no one transparent system of jobs that would allow progress in the state service when clearly the prescribed conditions are met without political conduct and several more objections can be cited. Let's say one of the objections that when we take all these elements that the service is as unattractive as it is, the wages are not stimulating and that it is an insecure career of officials in Croatia. I believe that the proponent himself is aware of all these dangers and that is why it is said in this bill that this law should only come into force on 1 January 2006. Furthermore, it also mentions the adoption of many sublegal acts that need to be passed in order to make it clearly more efficient. The aim of the proposal is to express a strong promotion by this law and to encourage the development of the capacity of civil servants. I believe that above all, it was thought of those who are now in the state service that the state service would be attractive, so that ultimately those who are most capable of it would be kept in it. Unfortunately, we are aware of the fact that in our practice we have a completely different situation, that often these best ones left the state service and those who had no place to go for any reason stayed there and so we actually had one negative selection of official staff in Croatia. In these areas of ours, and that was also during the former state, we have such a situation today that there have always been more people looking for a job and there have been far fewer opportunities for people to work. In such a situation, pressures on the state administration are understandable through political similarities. She thought it was a big act as a normal behavior, an expected behavior. It's clear where there's not enough work in the economy, where the economy doesn't have a swing. It has always been tried through various links and links with the help of political options of parties, links and links to get to the state service. And then when a man pushes into this system of state service then, with the help of internal advancement, many people often semi-literately knew how to get to the tops themselves, that's where the individual profited, but that's why we always, that's why she lost the public, lost the principles, lost the state and the state service. This is one framework, I tried to outline in short lines what framework we are trying to pass this Law and what framework should I fit this Law when we establish it because it will not be able to get rid of this social and historical ballast that we have overnight. The establishment of this new system, meaning the basis of this legislative proposal that will reform employment and adoption into the state service in Croatia is based on the American system, means that we could see here that on one hand we have a system of knowledge, means a certified school preparation, college means, further, a system of abilities and skills that should be determined by testing means hycrodus, hyxalt, show now by the basis of one test whether what it has to show. Furthermore, on the basis of the results of the work and the expertise acquired by the work here, the personal eyewitness of the civil servant shall also be indicated. Clearly, this system excludes, excludes policy in the process of receiving a civil servant, but always, given the negative experience, one wonders how we will be able to defend ourselves from the practice so far that politics interferes with the reception of statesmen. Is she going to hide somewhere again, cover up like some kind of virus, and at some point when circumstances are favourable, it's going to work? I think it's about this Law, but it's one of my thinking that it's important to pass a similar service law in local administration and self-government. Why do I say that? Because there seem to be the first but very important steps to manage what is general, which is mostly at the local level. I am afraid that without this law, the expected results of this Law will be lost in the long run. Locally it's always been... the Centre for State Administration, i.e. the State Service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, it was often easier for those mistakes that would seem to be forgiven, etc., and that's where people prepared themselves, it was like an excubator for the state service. Says the people, the young man is a little sharp, that young man, I say, is sharped at that local level. That's what I'm saying. I believe then that surely the effectiveness of this law would be much, much stronger if such a thing had similar at a local, lower level. In Part Two of this Act, which refers to the rights and duties of civil servants, the fundamental rights of civil servants are laid down. Clearly, the proposal's intention is clear, meaning that we would be strengthened, in order to strengthen the state's reputation, we need to lift up and place well the rights and duties of a civil servant, i.e. the role and position of a civil servant. However, in relation to other employees in Croatia, it seems to me that the official should not be untouchable and should not be one kind of sacred cow, because I fear that one day, if this official is based on an unqualityly defined position of his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/her/his/his/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/his/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/his/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/his/her/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/ his/her/ his/ his/her/her/ his/her/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his///////////////// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his//// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his////////// his/ his/// his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his/ his//// Maybe he'll say... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd like to make a few remarks about the individual articles of the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's say in Article 9, I think that's where my colleague Lesar really mentioned himself here being beaten by a civil servant, I said that I assumed that the proposer's intention was to get through a civil servant's reputation for the state's dignity, but as soon as we say here in the article, in paragraph 2, that state officials must be provided with sound working conditions, and in paragraph 3 the right to the protection of physical and moral integrity. It's a little bit in the eye because it seems to me that these solutions legally... in other laws, let's say when we talk about employees in other companies when it comes to workers, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Article 13, there was also one remark here, and I noticed it. In Article 2(2), it states: “State officials shall not be on the leading or highest executive duties in political parties.” That they may not, but today it is a practice that you have a lot of civil servants who are both state officials and how this will, by the way, be resolved, in which time it will be resolved. Perhaps that should be specified so that there would be no additional confusion when it comes to the application of this law. But, you know, it's hard for people to give up the position they've acquired. And this political position and the position of a civil servant brings proper status and power. Special attention and commendation, for example, that should be said here, it relates to articles, such as Articles 33 to 38, which discusses conflict of interest. Because now it's modern, popular, and in this House we talk about it all the time. Although the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties does not apply to civil servants, it is good that this chapter is incorporated into this Act because there is a large conflict of interest in the segment, from local to lower levels to more national levels. And there's one big, big problem. The solutions in the article, meaning in these articles 33 to 38, are excellent but they seem to be quite utopian because I don’t think I see these mechanisms that will protect them, protect them and allow them to be effective. I also welcome Article 46, which determines that a public official cannot be deployed to the workplace of a civil servant without competition and the procedure established by the tender. So the official would no longer, the state official should not be privileged to have a privileged position if he is a state official, if he wants to be housed in some way by a civil servant. I would also like to express my satisfaction with Article 49, it is a good thing that the admission plan will be published in the National Journal, meaning plus one day... on the website of the central authority of the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is now a misunderstanding here. It is not clear how long before the announcement, the announcement of the tender, means first going to publish the reception plan it is good that all those who are interested have the right conditions, that they can prepare themselves, that they will know that they will fit the state administration, receive officials, and not that, as we have so far had the opportunity for some of the privileged to know that this will be done. It seems to me, however, that this part should be defined and clarified means how long before it should be publicly announced in the public service plan before the competition itself. And since a little bit of the time I planned for the girl, I would say one more thing about article 87 and other articles relating to the evaluation of the work and efficiency of civil servants. It's all nice here, but I don't see the public around here. Does the public have a chance, does he have a chance and how he has a chance and a chance to evaluate civil servants? Is that some kind of complaint box over there that they're going to sign up for if something was wrong with a civil servant or if someone did something right? There seems to be a need to define the public's influence somewhere. I'm afraid it's not going to happen, it's our old practice, that whoever assesses is connected to who he's evaluating so that we have one, one closed circle, and at the very end of Article 94, it's also stated that in the case of a negative assessment of the work and the efficiency of a civil servant, it means when he gets the grade he doesn't satisfys the additional vocational training or moves to another workplace. And this is because of what seems to be my privilege of a civil servant compared to other citizens in Croatia do not have such a possibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29872	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29873	Mr. Vice President, very short. Namely, I'll take mine. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let's see, on behalf of the HSS Club, another representative lady.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29874	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29875	Madam Representative Ljubica Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29876	Mr. Secretary of State, I'm really sorry to hear that, but I submitted my application to Mr. Shakespeare. My colleagues, thank you very much. [[Here, we found it.]] My colleagues and colleagues, MPs, slows, trombones, glommatic and therefore unprofessional but arrogant state administrations are a source of indignation to the citizens of every country and of course Croatia. The state administration has mirrored the state authorities that are obliged to arrange it to be in the service of citizens, not something untouchable through which citizens are ruled. Faced with the bitter experiences of citizens who come to us through letters, telephones, directly to meet with citizens, and through personal experience, we will probably all conclude that we have a bulky and three-way state administration that is necessary to reform and modernise. It is also expensive, so it is not an amazing requirement to create a different administration. What's that? Depolitized, professional, efficient and affordable. The past government also saw the need for reform and a project "Cards 2001" was launched in co-operation with the European Commission in late 2002, supporting state administration reform. The main objectives of this project are: modernisation of official legislation, strengthening the organisational and personnel capacities of the central government, responsible for official relations, and the establishment of a complete system of education of civil servants and subsistence. Despite the implementation of the reform project, citizens have justifiably transferred their anger and dissatisfaction with the functioning of the state administration to a state authority that did not regulate it. It would be wrong to say that there was no attempt. In 2001, the Law on civil servants and tenants governing the position, rights, obligations and responsibilities of officials and subsistence officers and their salaries was passed. As a fundamental object to the current law, the legislator of the new Law states: the classification system of jobs does not allow progress in the state service, inadequate procedure of admission to the state service, too many special jobs based on illegal regulations, and the European Union's objection that the current law is not sufficiently elaborated on the basis of the results so far in the work and the expertise gained by the work it has as a consequence that, often, under-performing and professional candidates are received in the state service. If the objection is established because it is a quote from the explanation, then of course it should be corrected because the state administration must rest on expertise and ability. The proposer, in the explanation of the bill, says, quotes: "Political positioning in the state service has become a common practice. In addition, the political decisions of the elected civil servants as well as the external candidates set up high administrative positions. The admission to the state service of qualified personnel in a position of high responsibility also takes place through political decisions mostly due to unattractive salaries and insecure career prospects," finished the quote. What do you say? Putting in political will is for every conviction. It is surprising that the proposer makes it clear that this is a common practice and now means that the observed irregularities are not correct but continue and will continue until the application of the State Service Act, which is 1.1.2006. The problem of non-professional and incompetent officials and subsistences set up according to political will instead of according to the criteria of expertise and ability and those who will be set by political will next year will not be resolved by a new law through their application from 1.1.2006. That's what the promoter knows, and so does every one of us here present and those who are enlisted in the national representations. If there is a sincere will to exclude the policy's opinion in procedures, mixing policies in reception procedures, then it should be done immediately and without delay, find mechanisms to stop this mixing, but also mechanisms to remove those already placed just because they are politically similar. Even the current law regulates a strict responsibility for the violation of official duty. Even under current law, a civil servant is obliged to perform his duties properly, on time, knowingly, professionally, in accordance with the principle of the public, respecting the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Even now, a civil servant must not request and receive gifts for the personal benefit, benefit of the family or organisation in order to handle matters of administrative or other nature. Despite the prescribed obligation and despite the prescribed ban, there is both intricacies and unconsciousness and, instead of the public principle, the principle of secrecy. There's also a reception, but there's also a request for gifts. But that doesn't happen, there's no responsibility that's prescribed by law. Law enforcement requires the will to be implemented, but it also requires people to implement it. It's obvious there's no will, and when there's no will, there's no man. As long as that is the case, the assessment will be global and the state administration will be assessed as unprofessional, incompetent and corrupt. This global assessment of injustice has been done to all professional and conscientious officials who, secretly for a small salary, under unsatisfactory conditions, protect the reputation of the state, the state government as a whole. They have the right to take down the Stigmi, but also citizens have the right to a professional and efficient administration. And that's why we need reform. As a result, let us not delay the solution to the evident problem of passing a new law. Let us use energy, time and money to implement the existing with the corrections of what has proved to be bad. We hope that the undeniable assessment is that we need a smaller and cheaper but more efficient and professional state administration. We differ in ways to reach this goal. By proposing a new law, the government postpones the solution to the problem and does not guarantee with anything that we will have a smaller administration. Carefully reading the law, trying to preface it into practice, gives the impression that after another year, I quote the proposer, "often the practice of political setting up in the state service" and this refers to the present time, and this applies to the past. It is the impression that this law instead of reforming will freeze the existing state. And the current condition is not good. The law doesn't give us reason to be optimistic about depoliticalizing the establishment of civil servants. For example, Article 41 shows that job openings in state bodies are filled through an internal and public tender. If we keep in mind paragraph 2, which states that before opening a public tender for the reception of a job, we should try to fill out from the civil servants' order by calling an internal tender. If we are to enable progress in the service and we wish, if we want to enable one state body official to compete for service in another state body and we want, if the constitution allows no one to have anything against Article 41(1) and (2), then an internal tender to which all interested officials can apply, and if that is not the case, then a public tender shall be carried out with the fact that it is not possible under the Constitution. The question of the correctness of the intention is cast by paragraph 3 which states that the procedure and way of implementation will be regulated by the regulation, so the tendering procedures and the way in which the tender is carried out will be regulated by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. She'll do the same for the public tender. What are the reasons for the government's great powers that is unknown and leaves room for the foundation of doubt that practice will not change. It's unusual, and it's not allowed for a law called the Law of State Service to be governed entirely by all relations from your domain. He leaves too much to the government to settle his regulations. So the Government will regulate the classification of jobs by regulation, and the salaries of the tenants while other rights and obligations are subject to general labour regulations. Furthermore, the principle classification of staff posts in three categories is carried out. The development of jobs within each category shall be governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The way progress and the conditions of progress are governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The formats and conditions of education shall be governed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government will regulate the possibility of working in isolated places and working part-time. So everything will be decided by the Government from the transfer to the state service to the salaries of jobs. Such a law makes it difficult to believe that it will rule out politics from reception to service as an impact on the work of civil servants. With what we have heard today in the debate, there is no basis for this kind of law to be drawn up in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29877	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mr Emil Tomljanović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29878	Mr. Vice President, I will introduce that I absolutely support the adoption of this law. Since it's about first reading, I think it'll be enough time for any remarks or any of those remarks to be heard to consider perhaps some of them to be included in the final bill. I will sum up my debate and base it on two things that I want to point out and actually apply to two principles. One is the constitutional principle and the other is the professional principle. Namely, and in that sense my remarks as a contribution to the debate in the first reading. Therefore, when it comes to the constitutional principle, that is the principle laid down in Article 44. The Constitution. Thus, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to participate on equal terms in public affairs and to be admitted to public service. In this respect, the provision of Article 41 of the proposed law in relation to Article 50 puts the so-called so-called ‘real’ in the right plan. internal tender. It's like a way of filling up job openings. It's either an internal tender or a public tender. He would agree in this respect with all those views, opinions and, in the sense of implementing this constitutional principle, that the public tender is therefore absorbed if it is primary in terms of entering the state service and that it is possible to find a solution to the internal tender in relation to internal deployment within the framework of the state administration. So by deploying the right people to the proper jobs in the administration. That's the first one. And second, of course, concerns the measurement principle or the professional principle, I am of course thinking that this law should also prescribe an expert examination, an expert state examination, as something which is mandatory in terms of acquiring the necessary knowledge in order to properly carry out operations in the state administration. In fact, we are aware of the fact that there are different professional profiles or professional profiles in the state administration. And given the complexity of the state administration and all those segments of life it covers. It would not be a good solution for people through their work, and that is also a legal obligation, so every civil servant is actually required by law to perfect, educate, acquire knowledge, so it would not be a good solution to abolish the state examination institute. Because it's actually the place where every man actually verifys his stellar knowledge and not only that, but based on that acquired knowledge, absolutely adequately can be dealt with in a proper and legal way in all those problems that meet in the daily order of the state administration. On the Committee on the Constitution, I gave a concrete example, for example, quite certainly of the state administration of the forest in terms of the expertise of an example of a graduate veterinarian as a person who graduated from higher education is rarely that, or generally, highly educated people, intellectuals. However, they have their expertise but in terms of the implementation of the rules, the implementation of the legal procedure, the adoption of an administrative act and everything they will encounter in any form or segment of the state administration. If they do I think that this state exam is understood in a way that he will actually allow these people to get acquainted with this other aspect of the administration. In addition, they acquire the knowledge that they can carry out their tasks in the state administration on the basis of the examination. That's it. So there are these two principles that I wanted to talk about as my modest contribution to discussing this law in my first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29879	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29880	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State. When we say a civil servant, then we usually have a picture of a man behind the counter behind a semicircular cut glass screen of us constantly asking us to deliver to him all the new and new documents that we must then mark or scrape on these national marks. So 17 times he's already been looking for the Housewife even though we gave him the ID on which it's the housekeeper, even though we gave him a ID card that we couldn't get if we didn't have a housekeeper. And in doing so, we forget that it is not often that the official or the undersigned is guilty but that the entire system of administration is so designed that it is not well networked and that it is not kept trying but not at all to meet the citizen. So we have a picture of such an officer behind the glass in front of us, and often we forget that the civil servant and the POA agent who questioned journalist Pugliz, not one but more of them, so we don't understand or realize that at least the example of how perilous can be the influence of politics on the work of civil servants. My colleagues here say the law is good. But why do we need the best law? Nor will the best law be able to resolve the issue of political will, the will to give up politics affecting the work of officials and deputies, so that they break the law and regulations in the most harsh way possible, even if they are investigating their superiors, and the President of the Republic is also. But I disagree with those who say this law is particularly good. I'd say he's unwritten, undeveloped, not as terrible as the one about the money we discussed today, but not significantly better than him. The biggest flaw in this bill is that too much is left to the government. I see the highlight in Article 122, that is, in the whole of Part 13, chapter 13, of this law, which bears the name of the classification of jobs and salaries of the tenants. So this whole chapter is literally discussed in one article, that is Article 122, which reads: "The classification of jobs and salaries of the tenants is governed by the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia." A whole chapter of the law is reduced to the future regulation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But that would not be so bad either, however, but at least it would not be in line with Article 133, which says that the date of application of this law ceases to apply the Law on civil servants and tenants other than the provisions governing the salaries of civil servants and subsistence who remain in force until the entry into force of a special law governing salaries. So now I ask whether the law will regulate wages as set out in Article 133 or whether they will be governed by a regulation as set out in Article 122. This could have been coordinated by the promoter so as not to write one article and another article. There's a whole series of illogicalities here. For example. Article 86 is about that advancement in the ministry. So it is said that a civil servant can be promoted to a higher kind of job, calling or position if his work is at least two consecutively rated as outstanding or excellent. But only a few articles further in Article 93 said, a positive assessment of the work of a civil servant is one of the conditions for progress. And what are the grades? That's what we have in the article before that. The grades are remarkable, excellent, good, satisfying and not satisfying. I guess the negative grade isn't satisfactory, and all the other grades are positive. Thus, it is in complete dissension with one another. So one says that a positive rating will be enough, so it means it pleases both good and excellent and extraordinary. And elsewhere, it is said that it must be either extraordinary or excellent. Okay, I know that civil servants in public are not particularly well-advised, but that article 17 states that a civil servant should not abuse a party, so forgive me, but completely unclear. Well, be careful, abuse. So what are they going to put out on the parties, beat them with a metal rod? That would be about to abuse someone. Tie him up and pull him around the office. Look at the abuse it's a form of some kind of crime and not a particularly mild crime, so that you couldn't find any more appropriate expression for civil servants, despite the fact that they are not well thought for, but for this particular abuse. But the biggest flaw in this law is seen in the provisions of entry into force. It will, namely, enter into force 8 days from the day of its publication, which is fine, but will start to apply on 1 January 2006. So the government is now giving itself another full year to sweep everyone who thinks to move and then to petrify the situation. Look, it's already happened once in the judiciary for the first HDZ administration. First all the high-quality judges were expelled, then dragged in by the kind of Lozins and similar to them, and then given them a life-long function. And now in the judiciary, we have the insecure problem of incompetent judges, under-educated, and now we're going to do it again in fact. We'll do damage that will be difficult to correct. If I wasn't talking in my head, I mean, it's thousands of examples, I can't do it in 10 minutes, that debate would take hours to name only, not to explain cases. But I will remind you of a sentence by Prime Minister Sanader from the beginning of the term of office. He says Prime Minister Sanader will not be remanded, it will only be correcting injustice. In one such injustice, in correcting one such injustice, I will now tell you briefly. In Vinkovci there is the Centre for Rehabilitation "Little Teresa", 150 users, persons with mental retardation and cerebral paralysis. For seven years, the centre of the initial idea has been run by Mrs. Pickle. The temporary director is from 1 August of this year, not the interim director since March of this year, since 1 August is signing the contract and starting to receive the salary. But a month ago, Minister Hebrang appointed an administrative council, he appointed three, one, one is a representative of the parents and one is a representative of the employees. This administrative council, without comment, received her report on the work, but then with voices 3:2, and you guess who voted, decided, not for the new director to choose this Mrs. Voter who started the whole project and led it for 7 years, but another person. Mrs. Picker is a defectologist, master of defecology with 30 years of work experience, of which 10 years in Germany are on these jobs. But instead of her, a social worker from Brcko who worked at the Social Care Center was elected, so she was dealing with exiles and refugees, she has no experience with this population. Rehabilitation, of course, isn't for 155 protégés, because there's no one to implement, there's not a single defectologist there. The parents of the users and the Faculty of Defectology protested, but everything went bad. HDZ has righted one of the injustices. Since such corrections, such injustices will obviously be corrected by 1 January 2006 when they are likely to be corrected in this same way, then all those we have thus set up and keep in those jobs. For these reasons, but also for those I so often mention, because this assembly declares that the quorum exists when it is gone, I will not vote for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29881	A fellow Stazic, that the quorum has, but it does not, depends on whether someone is a daltonist or not. You know. That you can, I repeat, spend it all the time in one of your Dranulets it will be an inspiring topic for you, very inspiring. Thank you very much for the part offered, but I couldn't accept it, because my authorship is a little controversial. Dear representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic rectification of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29882	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It is not true that this Croatian government will enter into force in the following year, i.e. in 2005 until the law is addressed, i.e. On 1 January 2006, you did a cleanup as you did in 2000, so you replaced within 6 months 39 ambassadors and general consuls, hospital directors I don't know how many of them there are, I can't list the time, Croatian police officers, and also those from Mark's square that were on Mark's square full of 5, allow me 509 days, Croatian army officers under the name of the reorganisation of the Croatian Army, and according to Croatian consulates and our embassies you replaced everything, they stayed only somewhere cleaner or porter, and it seemed full 50 years. If that's not true, then ask now at the Foreign Ministry who this government has replaced since 23 November 2003. Not to mention cultural institutions in the Republic of Croatia from HNK, theatre, Male scene, not to mention..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29883	It's good, thank you, it would take you a lot of time to list as well as colleagues of the Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29884	Mr. President, I could count an hour.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29885	I know and Mr. Stazic listed it, too. So I can't speak from this place, or else I've opened this house and participated in the financing of that home, Little Teresa in Vinkovci, or a little truth different, but what do we do? Honored representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone. So the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29886	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Listen, the State Administration, this Assembly of Citizens, potential investors, experts, businessmen in Croatia, mark as a limiting, limiting factor in the development of the Republic of Croatia. It speaks of the meaning of this law. This is a very limiting factor in the competitiveness of the Republic of Croatia compared to the countries of the European Union. But as the Government as a Proposer believes in this Law, it really best points to a provision on the entry into force of this Act, and if the provision of Article 122 is added to that, that means when the Law enters into legal force 1.1. In 2006, it would be time for the government to regulate systematization and determine awards in the State Administration by means of its regulation. So it's really believing in rapid change. So there is no government trust that it can change this thing quickly. I agree with that, too. The state administration is too much and too much of a system to change quickly at someone's will. But what are tight throats in the state administration? There's objective and subjective. And if we analyze it like that, we know we can't fix land books quickly. To get a copy of the land-book records very quickly, we can't arrange it whenever we want. We can't even take out the catastrian whenever we want. We can't even sort out the payment tax system and the premonition obligation that something or contract was paid, because we simply didn't introduce it, we didn't predict it. We didn't introduce property cards in Croatia. How are we going to cut off, cut and evaluate the effectiveness of the IRS and the IRS? These are some objective circumstances. There's more of them. Croatia is a country in transition, and because of this priority political decision to get Croatia into the European Union as soon as possible, we have only today established nearly 3,000 new articles that the State Administration must apply. Just three thousand new articles today. Such optimism is not recorded in the history of any Parliament. The maritime code and the Mandatory Relations Act shall be applied to the State Administration. How many have we trained? This is the information you know for sure, an official in the State Administration who has five years of employment in the State Administration who needs knowledge of foreign language, actively and passively, as it is said, has three thousand and 600 kuna salaries, without the intended system of projected advancement in the service. If this is added to his work space, the working conditions to be taken care of are not in line with this Law. I don't think he's fit to sit, but he doesn't have a modern computer or a connected service. You're not the Ministry connected. When we talk about this is not an objective criterion, it is not objectively stated that when the government comes out of political need to tell the public that it will reduce state officials and subsistences in the Administration to change its organisation. It just collects. Any analysis would show that there were more civil servants than there were in the last term, but that's how it always works. So, the non-permanence of the organization is a limiting factor of the State Administration. A large number of civil servants don't even know what part of the ministry is. Not all the cases have yet come together from the last organization. I know that, I have proof of that. I have proof of that. State officials don't even have secured judicial protection of their rights. Simple court, Administrative Court and labour relations and rights are administrative acts still. It's not a court full of jurisdiction. If it is added that the education staff is not even mentioned in the law and I do not know that it is being implemented. How will it be implemented when it is only six months past the law that was intended for the organisation to be established in accordance with the law, as the government is changing the law on organisation. If it is not possible and the law does not allow this to enable people who have special or special knowledge to engage in the state administration, or even the titles of a doctorate to prevent them from being hired through a labour contract, I am not sure that there will be a responsibility in the state administration for the proposals. And without responsibility for the proposals we will get not only us in the Parliament but also in other representative bodies of the county and cities, we will get unconsistant and unsuitable proposals. What can we do? We can make it quick to remove subjective weaknesses and that means not waiting two years to establish a reward system in the administration, not wait two years. It shall immediately provide for how progress can be made in the administration, providing funding for literature and assistance technically whether it is computer or other necessary technical means when it comes to inspections. In my opinion, inspection control is the most important part of the administration. That's where the state shows whether it's effective, whether it's capable of protecting citizens without them asking. I'm not aware of how the administrative inspection works, whether it even exists. Is there a administrative inspection? If there's no way we're gonna talk about the situation right. One more thing. When proposed, the law requires special status for a state body to take care of the state administration. What's the special status? The hierarchy of state administrations, ministries, administrations, administrations, something else is known. If it's not part of this ministry, then it'll be a quasi ministry. It's required to be directly under the government's authority. As it will be under the government's authority outside the ministry, no solution has been known so far. I think everything is said that it is urgent to make changes that are possible to make it more effective, the administrative barriers as it is said by the jargon and the legislative concept would be spent as a first reading and put to the second reading a comprehensive local state and regional administration into one law in order to see the hierarchy and degrees of these relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29887	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29888	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, since this is about first reading of the law, I will only try to concentrate on certain provisions or aspects that seem illogical to me and which I think should be corrected and corrected. Previously, above all, the main objective of the law, according to the applicant's explanation, is to professionalise and depolitise the state administration. Of course, it is a commendable goal and it is not only a condition but also an assumption of the normal functioning of the state. But from the perspective of the citizen state is, or the state administration is the official who meets the citizen. The clerk and the citizen don't know it most often is a member of local administration and self-government. I ask myself, in fact, whether these provisions should, at least in general or at least in the most, apply to officials or to people who work in local and regional self-government or only to those officers who are central government officials. It seems to me that the explicits inside are dropping to the level, the lowest level of the state administration of the central state and does not include local administration and self-government. And I think one part of that, most of it, is actually the one that talks about the rules of the game should concern both local administration officials and self-government. Article 1(3) of the Rules of Procedure states that a civil servant should not be in a prominent position in political parties, I think it is a definition. Most of the time, the definition of being human, but not to be publicly identified as a politically belonging person. If we want this to really work, then it should be clarified to what level a man should not participate in politics. It is evident that it may be a member of the political party, whether it may be on the executive board, whether I do not know the municipal or city branches, whether it may be in the county, whether it may be in the state leadership of the party, etc. If we want this thing to work, then it needs to be specified, otherwise it will remain on such an arbitrary evaluation of his boss. Article 24(3) is one that has personally disturbed me many times in my life, namely the situation. It's about a civil servant who doesn't come to work at a certain time, day, two, two, whatever time that time can't be paid. That's clear by definition. A man who doesn't do business can't get paid for a job like that. However, articles that speak of some criminal provisions and minor injuries to labour discipline and the lack of work include such an easy injury say that the maximum penalty for such an easy injury can be 10% of the salary. 10% of the salary of such an officer is 400 kuna. What if a man doesn't come to work for three days? His salary in three days can't be taken because it's more than 10%, he can be punished by 10%. I think the situation is actually in a vicious circle that is very difficult to get out of. I suppose that would be explained by the provisions of the law. Another illogicality in Article 46 speaks of government officials who, after leaving their post, would want to, were formerly civil servants and would again like to become civil servants. The law says that in this process they perform perfectly equally in the competition, therefore, competitions for some kind of official place, passing or not passing, do not have any privileges. A month or two ago, we passed the Law on Courts where, as a new state official, the Registrar of the Supreme Court was established and now in one provision of these Amendments and the addition of the Law on Courts, it was written that after the term of office, the Secretary of the Supreme Court could return to the office of the same ministry, therefore, to the Ministry of Justice. I think those two provisions are in direct coalition. So, one law that we passed months and a half or two ago and a fair set of these laws. A state official, if he wants to return to the office chair, needs to pass the procedure normally. There's no automation. So we'd like to ask the promoter to see if there's still a coalition of such situations somewhere where one lex specialist dictates one thing, such a general law dictates another. There's still illogicality in the law, but since it's about first reading, I'm guessing there's been a lot of comments on the committees about the law. I suppose the promoter will take those comments into account and correct what is available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29889	Thank you. Dear Representative Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29890	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Time's already up, I'll try to be very brief. The rights and obligations and responsibilities of civil servants, tenants and their salaries are governed by the Law on civil servants and tenants that he has brought and in this House in 2001. As one of the basic remarks on this Law, we can specify a classification and a system of jobs that does not allow progress in the public service. Too many specific jobs are based on the sublegal regulations and observations it makes and the European Commission is that the law is not sufficiently elaborated by the admission procedure in the state service based on the results of the work so far and the expertise acquired and what it has for... that, often in the state service, under-performing and professional personnel are received. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The adoption of this bill would certainly significantly reduce the number of civil servants. The law stipulates that only ministers, state secretaries and directors of state administrations retain the status of a civil servant. Everyone else lost that status. Officials would no longer have, would not refer to a hundred ministerial assistants, the status of state officials would also lose the ministry's secretaries, the heads of government's offices, the director of agencies, the government's director, the deputy secretary of state in the middle state services. So that all of them do not also flee after their translation and abolition of this debt status, the Law foresees and the exercise of the right to personal income according to the solutions so far until a new Law on the salaries of civil servants is passed. The proposal of this Act seeks in the most conflicting way to bring most government officials into the status of civil servants and offer them a certain transitional period. In the future, except for a few teams that would politically... Prime Minister, everyone else along the way... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] State services would only be applied through competitions and the selection of candidates would be carried out on the basis of tests and results so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nearly two hundred state officials, ministry secretary and ministerial assistants, would lose their status and become only state officials of the highest ranking. In addition, ministry secretaries and ministerial assistants, the government will no longer be able to appoint without a previous competition that may be open or internal under the proposal. There we can express certain remarks whether or not this internal tender should be initiated. In these positions, the Government will only be able to appoint professionals, civil servants, from the highest rank or category of leaders. One of the interesting provisions is the one relating to the personal behavior of civil servants. A civil servant must act in such a way as not to diminish his reputation as a public service and not to question his impartiality in his conduct. But the law doesn't stand there. He also tells civil servants how he will behave in private life. In private life, a civil servant will avoid exposure to situations or behaviour that do not meet the leading ethical principles and values and may harm the reputation and interest of the state administration. It's in the bill of law. However, what are these situations and behaviours but also what are the leading ethnic principles and values, or deviations... The law doesn't speak of it, and it doesn't specify them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This bill would finally, for a longer period, introduce rules of play in the public service. It explains that the appointment of assistants and secretaries in the ministries is one of the important issues because it wants to avoid political influence on the management of state services, services and the setting up of state officials on a political basis. Based on this, surely the future government would have to try very hard to cover this up when calling the competition. However, the appointment of people of trust will also make it difficult to make it difficult for the secretary and minister to appoint only professional civil servants from the category of leaders and the law to be the leaders of only people who, with college education, have the right professional qualifications and at least 10 years of experience from which at least three in management jobs in small or medium-sized organisational units. Although the provisions on the appointment of the secretary and assistant minister are the most delicate majority of the law concerns the rights and obligations of nearly 65,000 employees in the state administration. Among other things, the way they are admitted to the service is regulated, the possibility of progress and for the first time in Croatian legislation introduces and prevents conflicts of interest for civil servants. They are so, they are so in advance obliged to report in writing any possible possibility of any benefit they personally but also members of their family may have because of the decisions of the state bodies in which they work. They are also obliged to inform their superiors if their spouses, children or relatives are high-ranking, political foreigners, professional or commercial associations and companies. In addition, senior officials shall report to the competent authorities if they are members of an association or non-profit organisations whose objectives and interests may affect the regular performance of their tasks. A civil servant's membership in political parties and trade unions does not have to be declared. Finally, I must point out that it is very questionable when ethnic and moral principles are mentioned in some law because they are very difficult to define. Who's going to define what's moral and what's not. You will get a different answer if you ask an NGO activist and another if you ask the priests. All in all, the proposal for this law is a good basis for discussion. I believe that there are a lot of objections and suggestions, suggestions and suggestions to be taken into account when determining the final text of the law that will be referred to another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29891	Thank you. And finally, a respected representative of Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29892	Well, thank you very much. Mr. President, gentlemen representing. The moment has come that stems from so far not exactly a bright practice that expertise, ability, education, culture of work and behavior become the dominant criteria for working in the state service. This will be an effective dam to the system of similarity and obedience, to advance the incompetent because of personal relationships and merits, to defend nepotism not by setting up positions and advancement thanks to various similarities and edges. Only respect for the legal and professional criteria can ensure a state administration worthy of the importance and traditions of Croatian state institutions. Regardless of the general objections on the over-indulgence of many areas and relationships, as well as attempts to change legal and sub-legislative acts that regulate a particular area will not, as a magic wand, solve accumulated problems, illogical as well as narrow channels that threaten the efficiency of the system. I believe that in the normative infrastructure of the Croatian state administration it is necessary to make changes. These changes must not be an expression and the consequences of current political, personal or other reasons, but must be a combination of all these reasons as well as wishes, efforts and the need for the legislative matter of the state administration to be regulated in accordance with the results of the relevant professional breakdown and new knowledge of administrative sciences and verified principles and solutions from practice, but also the expected objectives which should create assumptions for the achievement of the structure, organisation, working methods and criteria for valorising it. The system of promotion and promotion of employees and all in order to increase efficiency and quality professional and professional achievement of the tasks of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia. In this bill, it is said that it is going towards a major task of reforming and modernising the state administration. With the reduction of public costs, strengthening and management of the public sector. They also want to remedy the shortcomings observed during the application of the applicable Law on State officials and tenants. The passing of laws in 2001 and sublegislative acts and their application have led to degradation in the material status of the good part of the staff and of the furniture, and the result of the alleviation of quality personnel and the state administration has become unattractive for young and professional people. From this proposal for a law, I particularly support the introduction of a job classification that is prescribed according to standard standards for all state bodies. I believe that in this part of the job classification, it is necessary to be more fully regulated as only Article 71 is prescribed. A law that prescribes only types of jobs, run by civil servants, senior civil servants and civil servants, and that calls and positions are established within each type of workplace. I personally consider that instead of a government regulation, given that the first reading of this proposal is as prescribed by the provision of Article 71(4). The law of calling and positions should be prescribed by this law. That's my opinion. This is a fundamental issue that will determine the future status of civil servants. In the part of the law on education and development of civil servants in Article 97, paragraph 2 states that education programmes are to be organised and implemented by a special design unit in the central part of the state administration responsible for official relations. I believe that education programmes for their employees are carried out by state bodies in cooperation with the central authority of the state administration responsible for official relations. In practice, it would be difficult to implement the central authority to carry out training for officials of all state administration bodies in view of their number and various specific education needs in certain parts of the state administration. And finally, I conclude that the proposed State Service Act is a good starting point in trying to bring our state administration closer to European standards in the role and effectiveness of the state administration as a service of citizens and its quality and efficiency with further reflection and possible improvement of individual proposed institutes and solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29893	Thank you. Does Secretary of State Antun Palaric want to give a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29894	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, this long debate in such a late hour shows that everyone cares that the Croatian State Service is better than it is now and that it is a development generator, not a development brake as someone estimates it. However, the Croatian state administration is one solid state administration that has succeeded and solved all efforts of war and money, which successfully implements projects of approximation to the European Union. You can see how many laws are produced, and hundreds of thousands of cases are dealt with in the administrative procedure. But it can always be better. Our intention was to take this law in line with European standards to take a step further, and we insist on preparing for the second reading a law to make it better, but we will have to apply some solutions to how they are in Europe and as far as many issues are concerned, to be left to government regulations. We have already taken great steps in the education of civil servants. All interns admitted to the state service this year pass training immediately after entering the state service. We trained coaches to conduct education, there's a Center for Professional Training of State Officers at the Central State Office. We expect a donation from "Cards" which is also part of a project that will be completed in 15, 20 days and this education of all civil servants will be organised by the Centre as one important government institution and to prepare as many civil servants for European integration as possible and to be an adequate service in other countries. Thank you all for the discussion. We will carefully study the phonogram and most of the remarks along with foreign consultants and experts will consider and install the law because we believe that everyone cares about the state administration as best as possible. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-07-0.u29895	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., we will discuss the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the project of the integration of the pipelines of the company Jadrija, the promoter of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, the Proposal for a conclusion on the situation and perspectives of the development of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, the proposals for the clubs of the representatives of Libra, HNS, PGS and LS, and we will also consider the previous consent of the Croatian Parliament to confirm the programme for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and further for what has business conditions. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Proposal for a State Service Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 225. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a State Service Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please, let's get on with it. Please vote. Score. I find that with 79 votes for and six abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
