ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2131	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and parliamentary representatives! Here, another day with you. I hope you don't get bored. It's been a while. Here, before you, honored ladies and gentlemen, is the proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law in an emergency procedure, so with the final bill of law. I'll just say a few introductory sentences about the importance of family law and I believe we'll all agree on that. We in the government think it's a law that really concerns each and every one of us. It is a law that touches us in different ways from birth to death, it is a law that speaks of the most sensitive life, family problems, issues and things and, of course, that we, in the amendments and additions to this law, are guided by the constitutional provision, constitutional and value that the family is under the special protection of the state, that it is of course both child and mother, that young people are under special protection of the state. The family is, of course, a refuge and a foothold and everything we learn about real values, we learn in a family environment, or we don't learn that. Why does the Government propose to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of this law in order to proceed? I believe the argument you received on the bench will be sufficient, but here are my few additional notes to accept the Government's proposal to pass the law by emergency procedure. And that we can vote today on this Law, or amendments and additions to this proposal. Namely, after the adoption of the Family Law in June 2003, certain provisions, therefore, some articles or better said their application were delayed until 22 January of this year. It is about articles that regulate extremely sensitive family issues and provisions which have been laid down and which have been introduced into the law to delegate certain issues from the social care centre to courts. For example, it is about issues of neglect of parental care, and in these cases it is predicted that the court has the right to take away the right of parents to have children live with them. Then, provisions predicting that a child with behavioral disorders will be entrusted to a welfare facility. The courts then received important authority to prohibit the child from approaching certain relatives, therefore, in cases where it is to the benefit of the child. So this delay was aimed at preparing courts for the conduct of these family matters, I repeat, which were to be transferred from the welfare center to the courts. Since, in the meantime, by 22 January of last July of the year when the Family Law was passed, the courts were not prepared, all the necessary actions were not carried out so that these jobs from the Social Care Centre could be transferred to them, i.e. in their district, the Government proposes a derogation from the application of these articles, from Article 44-50 and then from Article 99 to 117 of the Family Law to avoid certain major problems in dealing with them and, of course, to protect the child's well-being above all. Because the entire Family Law, among other things, rests on that unusually important pillar, which is the protection, that is, the welfare of the child and of the orange, ultimately the welfare of the family. This is what we were warned about, therefore, of the urgent need to postpone the application of the Family Law, and of the professors of the Faculty of Law, Mrs. Korak and the brave who participated in the work of the Family Law, which is in force but also, I am also particularly pointing out the Ombudsman for children. It points out, among other things, that the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in its Article 6 also states that, in order to establish its rights and obligations of civil nature, everyone has the right, by law, to establish an independent and impartial court in a fair, public and reasonable manner, its case. So, the child's attorney agrees, but she's proposing this postponement. So we're proposing a delay by the end of September this year. It is clear in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, because we think that within that time we should do all the further actions to prepare the courts for this big and extensive job. For example, the transfer of jurisdiction, some, in some family matters, also predicts 24-hour court duty. So in agreement with the Department of Justice, I believe that all these necessary preparations and actions will be carried out. The government thinks it would be bad if this deadline, which we have now extended, were to be extended to you by the end of September if it were to be extended another time. These are therefore the main reasons why the government is proposing the adoption of this law in an emergency procedure. In fact, before and couldn't react, this deadline of 22 January was expired as you know but the government had previously been unable to react because the Croatian Parliament began to meet only when it started, or when it could. Therefore, these changes or additions could not have been put before you. However, we believe that it is much less a pity if these changes and additions are accepted today than that we have waited until the next session. I will say, i.e. to point out two more changes that the Government is proposing and that are before you in this, in the proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law. It's a change in the definition of mother, we suggest a return to the definition of mother: the child's mother is the woman who gave birth to it. This definition was amended last year, however, we, in line with this government's programme, since the definition as we propose knows other European legislation, we propose therefore a hell of a definition as it is known in all almost European legislation. We think motherhood must really be one firm and impenetrable point of foothold in the lives of all of us. I repeat, once again, the family law has been changed and upgraded always primarily guided by the fundamental idea that it must be on the welfare of the child. And we think this has to remain the main point. And another amendment that I would like to specifically warn you about is the eradication of that provision, which, in the amendments to the law of last year, made it possible in exceptional cases to marry children of brothers and sisters. We suggest this change because we think it's appropriate for us to understand life, but it's also something that falls absolutely within our civilization circle. I repeat again all these amendments and additions we propose are in line with the Croatian government's programme. Here, Mr. President, I think the introduction is enough if there is a need, of course, that on behalf of the motionary, I will further explain the individual proposals. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you, for the importance of a fundamental reason why we are proposing the urgency of the proceedings, so the transfer of jurisdiction to certain family matters from the social work centre to the courts. To accept these changes to vote on them today, and I thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2132	Thank you. Whether the committee's rapporteurs want a word, yes. Dear Representative Davorko Vidovic, president of the Youth and Sports Family Committee. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2133	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. On 29 January 2004, he discussed the Youth and Sports Family Committees at his 2nd session of the predicate law on changes and additions to the Family Law with the final proposal for the law. The president of the Croatian Parliament was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 27 January 2004. In the opening statement, the proposing presidents explained all the amendments and additions proposed by this legislative proposal, stressing that the emergency procedure is proposed so that welfare centres can act in accordance with the current jurisdiction. And until the courts are prepared to implement the Family Law. The Committee supported the proposal from the Proposer to adopt this law by an urgent procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Committee President Davorko Vidovic, issued an opinion expressing dissatisfaction over the unpreparedness of courts to implement family law, which is why this law must now be amended by an urgent procedure. He further stated that he did not support guarantees that, within the new legal period, the necessary preparations of the courts would be carried out. It is then pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Family Law are drawing the public's attention from the real problems and issues regulated by family law. The Chairman of the Committee of Opinions has also singled out the text of the proposed amendments and additions by expressing disagreement with them. In this part of the debate, it has been stressed that there is no guarantee that, within the additional deadline, the courts will be able to take over the business of the envisaged laws. Then it is expressed a question of justification for the introduction of compulsory comparison in order to protect marriage when mates do not have a common underage, or adopted children. By assessing that the adoption of this provision will, in a certain sense, limit the freedom of individuals. In connection with the ban on marriage between siblings and srestricts, the president of the Committee is of the opinion that the applicable provisions are sufficiently restrictive because they only allow for this kind of marriage. A member of the Committee, Biserka Perman, pointed out that it would be good if the applicant accepted the comments and amendments of the Legislative Committee. The other members of the Committee of the HDZ Club fully supported the proposal by stating that the adoption of Article 1 avoid legal uncertainty while the amendment referred to in Article 2 is necessary in order to reduce the risk of the birth of children with psychophysical disorders. In connection with Articles 4 and 5 of the final draft of the law, it has been noted that they are important for the constitutional protection of motherhood. The intervention is important in order to avoid the rapid divorces of marriages and, if the intervention fails, it will at least be achieved that the divorce will pass with less conflict between marriage mates, the opinion is by the majority of the members of the Committee. In accordance with Article 6 of this Article, it is established that European legislation in the same way determines this issue primarily for the purpose of protecting the interests of children and their legal certainty. In the event of a doubt in one’s motherhood, there is a possibility that this may be established by means of Article 77 of the Family Law in a judicial manner and in a debate. At the end of the discussion, the Committee sets out unpredictable life situations in which marriage mates can be found. An example of a mate’s relationship with an out - of - wedlock partner is highlighted. if a child is born from that relationship, a deceived spouse becomes ensnared by the parents of such a child. A deceived spouse may challenge parenting by judicial means, which is certainly an awkward situation for both parents later and for the child, but according to a harmonised view of the Committee members, all the situations he has faced are very difficult to predict and regulate legally. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements in the text of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2134	I would like to thank the president of the Legislative Committee. Here you go. President of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2135	Dear Mr. President, dear ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. At the third session of 28 January this year, the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the Family Law Act with the final draft law. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law and does not object to the proposal for a bill to be passed by emergency procedure and to enter into force on the day of its publication in the "National Journal". On the text of the final proposal, the Committee submits the following amendment to Article 15, which would be amended and read: "In Article 367(1), the following words: "already 6 months from the date of entry into force of this law" are replaced by the words "until 30 September 2004". Explanation. In this regard, such a manipulation of this provision shall not technically regulate an expression without undue repetition of the text referred to in Article 367. In addition to the amendment submitted, the Committee shall make the following comments and proposals. Article 1 proposes to amend the provision in order to show that the provision of this law applies to only one life union. At the same time, it is proposed that the effects of the extramarital community apply to every community of life in which a common child was born, and the provision of Article 1 could read: "In the Family Law "The National Journal" No. 116/03. Article 3 is amended as follows: "The provisions of this Act on the effects of the extramarital community apply only to one life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who lasts at least 3 years or shorter on each child in which the child is born." On Article 6, which reads: "if the child’s mother, the child’s mother, and is a woman who gave birth to a child", the debate put forward a proposal to supplement the provision of Article 6 by establishing in a possible 2nd paragraph of the amended Article 53, an exception to which a woman who did not give birth could prove that she is a biological mother, only in the event that her ova were taken away and incorporated against her will by another woman. This is especially for the reasons of possible genetic characteristics, and for the reason that the possibility of sperm donation is arranged by sublegal acts. Since the provision of Article 15 shows that there is a return to action for which there is a particularly justified reason in accordance with Article 89(5) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is proposed to draw the next conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. In order to reverse the provision of Article 15 of this Act, there are particularly reasonable reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2136	I thank the president of the Committee. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2137	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the family law, with the final proposal for a law of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, accepts the urgent procedure. Since the relationship with family and family policy has an extremely important meaning in the Croatian Democratic Community Club, we pay particular attention to it. The family is the fundamental and most important community in the lives of man and people. The family must be at the heart of the attention of our interests and social concerns. The state must have a national family policy and therefore support the first moves made by the Minister for Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. Over the centuries, the family has confirmed the foundation of every healthy society, and its strongholds are in love, marriage, offspring, and responsible parenting. It creates a new life, it builds human personality. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia highlights the protection of the family. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A family law erasing the "not living in another extramarital community" indentation is explained by simplifying and disabling legal uncertainty so far, since the existence of an extramarital community is hard to prove. If there are no children in the extramarital community, it is very difficult to tell what is the degree of common life that would represent a clear definition of common life in terms of the extramarital community. The proposed formulation for the Croatian Democratic Community club is therefore acceptable. In view of the importance of the Family Law and the moral standard of the Croatian Democratic Community club, it also supports amendments to Article 28 which deletes the exceptional possibility of getting married between sisters and brothers, and half-sisters and half-brothers. Making a marriage between blood relatives is not just a matter of law, but of a moral common heritage in our society. Since our moral and usual heritage is viewed as a family in a broader sense, and although we rarely seek permission to conclude such a marriage, we support the eradication of the provisions so far. The proposer obviously also respected scientific and medical analyses that link marriage among close relatives with Downow syndrome, i.e. with a high risk of the birth of mongoloid children. We also know examples of the occurrence of some inherited diseases within isolated island, mountainous or tribal environments as on the island of Mljet, Susca and in some villages on Velebit. The provisions laid down in Article 42 and 44 respectively are a logical improvement of the existing text. It is proposed in Article 44 that intervention be made compulsory not only when a husband and wife have a minor child or adopted children or children who have parental care, but also in the case of an action against one of them for the protection of their marriage whether they have children or not. If the intervention fails to implement the procedure in many cases, divorce will be achieved with less conflict and a easier agreement will be reached. The divorce procedure is often initiated at the moment of the conflict, and the time spent in the mediation process can achieve a calming of the situation and a more rational decision. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The family law in which the word “supervise” is replaced by the word “is”. It gives mother the importance and necessary legal certainty. Family law regulates the question of child origin, or legal claim about who the mother or father of a child is and how motherhood or paternity is determined, depending on whether the child is born in marriage or out of marriage. Both motherhood and paternity are in a legal sense relations between the child and his parent who was enrolled in the womb of the born. Both can be disputed in court proceedings within the prescribed time limits. If under regular conditions anything can be certain, i.e. that the woman who gives birth to a child is indeed his mother. By way of derogation from this provision, the possibility of negotiating the birth and handing over the child, so-called. raw motherhood which raises the question of possible combinations of the origin of the child from different women. Mostly all Western European legislation is based on Roman law and constitutional codification. The child's mother is the woman who gave birth to him. In European legislation, German, Austrian, Italian, Belgian, civil law refers to the birth of a child as a link to the creation of a legal motherhood relationship. The Spanish law states that the mother of the child is the woman who gave birth to him. Greek law prejudices the motherhood of a woman's birth, French law prohibits surrogate motherhood and views the mother as the woman who gave birth to a child. The Swiss Civil Code provides that the mother of the child is the woman who gave birth to him, and the amendments to the Constitution in Article 24 prohibit the donation of the embryo and any form of replacement machete. Therefore, legal certainty speaks in favour of the wisdom of the ancient Romans regarding the development of medical technology and the possibility of donation of the female egg cell, and there are no regulations in the Republic of Croatia. The progress of medicine and its achievements opens the possibility of cloning as a medically feasible but morally and legally unacceptable process. Therefore, in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we are not all the same as the civilization is developing and at what level will be the ethical standard of Croatian society. Population and family policy in the Republic of Croatia should seek to strengthen and protect family and general and national interests. Article 15 of the proposed law complements the application of certain provisions of the Family Law of 22 January 2004 on 30 September 2004 in order to allow for the adjustment of the judiciary to the requirements of family law. By moving to a section of municipal courts, there would be no problem with the work of social work centres in certain smaller municipal courts so far. However, in major municipal courts where judges and spaces are lacking, there would be a great suffocation of courts. For this reason, at the club of the Croatian Democratic Community, we believe that the delay in the application of the law in that part is necessary until municipal courts are teamed up for an up-to-date settlement of cases which depend on objective circumstances related to the support of courts and insurance of business space. The family is the path of the church and the people, the transporter of biological life and the life of faith. It was written in a shepherding message from Croatian bishops on the occasion of the third Pope's campaign to the Croatian people and the state. It is also on this trail that yesterday's and today's changes and additions to both the Family and birth leave laws proposed by the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community club will support the adoption of amendments and additions to the Family Law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2138	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague representative of Peru. Here you go. My fellow Pavician, we apologize for...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The esteemed representative incorrectly stated that the ban on marriage between blood relatives in the lateral line between the children of sisters and brothers and children of half-sisters and half-brothers, as corrected by Article 28. Family law belongs to the common law of our people. Through the history of the Croatian people, such marriages were relatively common. We can only talk about the unacceptable nature of such marriages from the point of view of the medical profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2140	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's esteemed representative, Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2141	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. Taking part in this debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Family Law Supplements, and on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the PGS, I must first of all express my disdain about the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. Changes that change overnight... Ministrys, abandonment of recently passed legal provisions, family courts, e.g. like the courts... [[You don't understand.]] and prevent some of the fundamental rights and such a slow administration will now have an additional justification for its ineffectiveness and decapitation. [[You don't understand.]] The reason for which it is cited as a justification for the urgency of the proceedings, which is the non-preparation of courts for taking over business and quality treatment in family matters, which has been in the jurisdiction of the Centre for Social Welfare, since July 2003, passed into the jurisdiction of courts with a delay in application since January of this year, is simply the reason that, with the necessary extension of the deadline for the application of the Law, the requirements of this law, and in order not to endanger human rights, especially children under the urgent procedure of change, also some other provisions of importance for this law. That's why we can't without asking two questions. Why has the judiciary not adapted to these new requirements so far, and will it be possible to adapt to that in the next six months? Why are we changing some important things by an emergency procedure, I'd say, even the very sensitive elements of this law? The HSN Club, the PGS, considers that here an emergency procedure was to be encouraged by the need for an extension of the deadline, in order to amend some other legal provisions which would otherwise need to be amended in the standard procedure. Thus, the purpose of the proposed amendment is to mediate divorce, especially in view of the intervention in the initiation of divorce, and when there are no minor children, adopted children, or children under whom parents are concerned after their age. The reason why the proposal is based on the idea of the protection of marriage is reflected in the following text itself in the success of this process, but here it is. I guess the reason for the duration of the order with less conflict and more agreements. We, however, believe that institutions and individuals who conduct the mediation by accepting the proposed change would unnecessarily bury themselves with a large number of cases, make it difficult by additional administrations to reduce significantly the time needed to intervene in cases where divorce is initiated by either lawsuit or agreement, and children are concerned. All this is just multiplying bureaucracy, making it even more inefficient. Of course, it is far more serious to change an article in the Family Law that changes the definition of a mother without mentioning that it is a biological mother. Such a question requires discussion between philosophers and right-doctors, and cannot be resolved by disabling and overly simple ignorance. The redefinition of the child’s mother at first sight is merely a linguistic change, but it has serious consequences behind it, especially in the context of further proposed legal changes relating to the extension, i.e. the denial of the possibility of a woman to challenge motherhood. The issue of the donor and the donation of the egg cells is not harmless and such a definition of the mother would simply be amnesty for some doctors for whom, in recent times, there is reasonable doubt that for many years longer, they have abused their position and damaged their patients. In countries, as we like to say, the civilized West, it is unimaginable to apply and donate egg cells without strictly defined procedures, mainly to contracts. After all, sperm donations are accompanied by a series of sublegal acts and do not question paternity. If legally justified and elaborated procedures for the transplantation of individual organs are clearly necessary for the installation of genetic material. We allow women to decide on their own life and leave them the possibility to challenge motherhood if they have been fertilized without their written consent, namely that women whose ovary was conceived without its written consent have the right to challenge motherhood in the process of proving their motherhood. The reconstruction of jurisdiction and division, and the transfer of powers from one ministry to the other two, the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, the defenders and intergenerational solidarity are being violated by existing regulations and laws, in particular the Family Law and the Social Care Act, which were provided for by jurisdiction for a different structure. So the laws must be changed by emergency procedure immediately and at the moment. Which is extremely bad because changes should be introduced gradually, with a consultation with the profession, but also with the public. The long-standing functioning of existing organisations says that if all the regulations change, this division will be impossible to implement on the ground. By establishing new family centres, it creates parallelity between institutions and interference and overlapping competences and multiple red tape. We therefore believe that it should not be approached to modify certain articles but to redesign them systematically and fully. And once again, let's remember yesterday's debate. Women can't be the only bearers of the most intelligent policy that is once again just part of the demographic restoration. We know that tens of thousands of young highly educated people have left Croatia in the last 10 years. Returnees, refugees, diaspora, all that makes the potential of demographic restoration. Young women, particularly educated, and we all desire such a society, will only decide to be born under conditions of economic and social security. But first, we need to see how the state takes care of us alive so that some new people can be born. Every new government changes what is the least costing of time and money, and it speaks of things that are really little to help. If we are an economically stable country, a healthy economy, and for contented people, we will not have to urge people to reproduce with stimulating maternity permits or symbolically, often for a woman insultingly, small cash simulations, from like 100 kuna. And there will be those who come from other countries wishing to become citizens of Croatia. Until then, we do not change for every new mandate in accordance with the personal visions of those in power what is not right in something that is even worse. For all the above reasons, we from the Croatian People's Party will not support the amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2142	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Maria Byte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm correcting the incorrect allegations regarding colleagues of Chichin-Shane. Inaccuracy related to the request for emergency proceedings because the law was passed on 14 July 2003 and the courts which did not prepare did not have the responsibility of this Government which had to go into urgency because of the application of the law in order to prepare the application in courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2144	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had to answer simply to clarify some of the things clearly respected to my colleague, namely the lady MPs who spoke on behalf of the club HNS PGS, and I thought that we were going to have this debate without any unnecessary accusations, but since the misdemeanour of which comes from the club whose representative spoke earlier comes first because of an emergency procedure and asked questions about the unpreparedness of the courts as an excuse for adoption, for the proposal of this law by emergency procedure. And the question why the judiciary hasn't adapted itself, which also the distinguished representative referred to me as representatives of the government. Yes, I am returning to that revolving question why the judiciary did not prepare from July of last year until the end of the term of office of the last government. Why the judges did not educate themselves, why they did not attend any additional educations in addition to those changes, why no coordination was agreed with the social care centres with which close cooperation is necessary, why no 24-hour duty was agreed on what was necessary because of these special and particularly important sensitive matters, you can read this among other things in the report by the Ombudsman for children and her opinion was also that nothing had been done to prepare her opinion also that the application of these articles should be delayed in order to avoid absolute chaos and that there would be no total suffocation of courts. So, of course, you must refer this question to the honourable MPs within your own club and your own party, which has been part of the government in the past term. As for the doubt that perhaps now after these changes could not challenge motherhood, that is also not true. I refer you to Article 77. A family law that remains in force that does not change, which says in paragraph 1 "A woman who considers herself a child's mother can dispute the motherhood of a woman who is enrolled in a queen born as a mother if she asks for her motherhood to be established at the same time", that I do not read an entire article that has 6 items. And as for your doubts about the establishment of new centres for social care, i.e. you claim that now some new centres will be set up, that is not true, none of them mentioned it, nor was it discussed at any time in the government, nor was it any idea of which, within the existing centres of social care, all of these things would be carried out by the Ministry of Health and Social Welfare and the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2146	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Alenka Košisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2147	I thank you, I must admit that I didn't know exactly which of these tables I could raise, given that I haven't adopted the Rules of Procedure so well in these months since this Reverend Parliament worked, so maybe there's some doubt. I would just point out that our disdain primarily goes in the sense that this law is adopted by an emergency procedure, because it is possible, by an urgent procedure, to adopt an amendment relating to the extension of the deadline but not to the other articles, which can go into standard procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2148	My colleagues would be in replica. But good. On behalf of the HSS Club, Honorable representative Ljubica Lalić, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2149	I would like to thank Mr. President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and fellow MPs. Those MPs whose second term has not yet forgotten the heated debate in the adoption of the Family Law that we passed in July 2003. Although the debate has not yet been forgotten now we are in a position to discuss its changes and additions. Although we believe that frequent and rapid amendments to the law did not come well because they violate legal certainty, it seems to us that this amendment is necessary because since the end of July, until today the courts have failed to prepare fully for the conduct of those family matters which have been transferred from the authority of the Social Care Centre to the courts. The transfer of proceedings was carried out because of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which requires judicial protection to decide on human rights. Unfortunately, the courts have so far failed to carry out the necessary actions to take these jobs, so now the amendment that is ahead of us is prolonging the application of the provisions that should have been applied these days. We sincerely hope that by 30 September 2004, by the time the provisions are applied, the courts will be able to exercise the powers conferred on them by law. We have the impression that the proposer has taken advantage of the need to amend the almost passed Law and intervened in several other articles against which we in the Croatian peasant party do not object because it is about the views that we have represented ourselves in the discussions on family law. This refers primarily to the process of intercession in divorce, which refers to the possibility of getting married between children, brothers, and sisters, and half brothers and half sisters. Therefore, according to the proposal, an amendment to the mediation procedure would also be carried out if mates do not have a common juvenile or adopted child and child who is given parental care after their adulthood if the divorce procedure is initiated by the complaint. We evaluate the proposal as good and aim to keep the marriage alive. In one of my discussions, I said that marriage is not a bus that is... /No overlapping./...and free entrance, and at the next free exit. When I say, “Marriage kept” of course not, that I do not think of preservation by order or force of the law. Marriage can be preserved by the will of mates, and that will must be free. It is hard to believe that will is free at a time of conflict, at a time of disagreement and mutually often irrational accusation. While the will is trapped by the chains of current and transient emotions, mediation is necessary and useful. The justification for the intervention also refers to 164 cases of successful settlement, 543 cases in which the procedure has been suspended because the Centre and its call have not been answered by the applicant and 353 cases where the applicant has given up the proposal. These data are from 2002, and probably similar for 2003. Those who have faced marriage divorces in their work will testify that in their practice they have recorded cases when marriage mates came as mortal enemies and left as friends. And because of these perhaps few, yet existing cases, society is obliged to make possible everything possible to preserve marriage by their own free will. Further changes relate to eradicating the exception of the possibility of getting married between children, brothers and sisters, or half brothers and half sisters. The legal arrangement of this exception was conducted with heated debates both in the Assembly and in public debates. The Croatian Peasant Party represented and represented the view that the provision of Article 28(1) is quite sufficient to determine that marriage cannot be concluded by a blood relative in a flat line, and in the sideline line by a sister and, and brother, half-sister and half-brother, a child with a sister or half-sister or brother and half-brother of his parents, sisters and brothers and half-sisters and half-brothers. It sets out marriage bans that are deeply integrated into national consciousness. We felt that there was no need for paragraph 2 to regulate the exception when it was possible to conclude a marriage between a cousin and a cousin. Such a provision sends a message, mitigates the importance of the reason for the ban, and the reasons for the ban are solely motivated by a genetic aspect and of course by a moral aspect. How deeply involved in the people is the awareness of the importance of blood kinship shows that in the last 35 years only one case of marriage between cousins and cousins has been recorded. Following the exposure to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, the Committee welcomes the erasure of paragraph 2., Article 28. Family law. In addition, the amendments are intervened in Article 35 relating to the adoption procedure. In the explanation of the article, the applicant states: “In order to make the situation more clear, to speed up the process and the availability of general data to the public and better control of the work of the competent authorities, a central eyewitness should be established”. If we understood correctly by this provision, one record of potential adoptors and adoptions would be established. We hope that the minister will effectively prescribe methods that will determine the similarity for adoption and all in order to speed up the process itself. That the procedure should be speeded up sufficiently speaks about the ratio of the number of children without adequate parental care and adoption number. The adoption is too small, the will to adopt is enough, and in their homeland children have waited for years, and often they do not wait for the one who will give them parental love. The lack of a central eyewitness is neither the only nor the main reason for the slowness of the adoption process. Its introduction is an attempt to speed up, but they would like to point out the main reason for the slowness, and it was created by centres for social work that, in the case of a child without adequate parental care, do not launch a custody process in time for parents who entrusted care to their children with centres and homes. So here is the call from the competent minister to first and foremost remove this main reason for the slow adoption, and then the proposed amendment of the Family Law will benefit both children and adoptors. Since the amendments and additions to the Family Law contain views on family relations represented and represented by the Croatian Peasant Party, the HSS Representatives' Club will vote for the Amendment and Supplements proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2150	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Lalic. On behalf of the SDP Club, the word has the distinguished representative Mrs Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2151	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So I must say that I agree with my predecessors who have said that unfortunately these amendments to the law are only changes to the parts with which the HDZ Club disagreed half a year ago when we were making changes to the Family Law and I'm really sorry that in the Family Law where some changes and changes could have been made that would solve some of the human, life problems of our citizens unfortunately nothing has changed in this regard. So only those things that HDZ did not agree with at the time have changed, and therefore there are no major changes that would help our citizens solve their problems. So far, in the last half of the year, there have been some provisions that might have to be a little bit different to define in order to be much more effective and I hope that here soon some much better and more qualitative changes to the Family Law before us representatives than those we have received today. For example, the first article moves something that we have also added. We added thanks to the professional associates we had, who we gathered with people who in practice meet daily in Croatian courts with this problem.../ There are no overlaps/...there are men and women who often live in two extramarital communities, so we have found that it must be placed here, so it is also about people who do not live in another extramarital community. In particular, the illogical explanation of this article is that the other extramarital community cannot be established, so if you can identify and find evidence for the first extramarital community, you can do the other. Someone might find that funny. However, this is so, it's a practice, there are people who live like that and there are problems that happen in court trials, so I believe a lot more in people who face such problems every day in litigation and I think that such a solution should remain here. After all, we will, on behalf of the SDP Club, give an amendment to which we return that part to the law. I do not know what she served or what this change serves to change her mate into a husband. I have to admit a lot of people, a lot of experts ask what this is about, no one has found a good and logical explanation, but here's a big change to this law is that a marriage mate is changing into a husband, and I don't know what's going to change that in our family relationships. As far as mediation is concerned, this is something we have proposed, so it is now being erased and changed again, which is that intervening in divorce should not be conducted with those married partners who do not have children. Namely, intermediation is primarily important in order to educate parents in the course of divorce that their relationships between them as two adult adults should not break over the back of children. The largest number of unfortunately married couples who divorce do not divorce each other, but in that divorce use their own children, often these children are instrumentalized, and I have to say that a very large number of children end up in psychosocial treatment because of their irresponsibility, so they are children who are severely traumatized, solely because of their parents' irresponsibleness, who should know and should learn somewhere to be educated that their problems have to be solved only by the two of them, and whether they live together or do not remain their common concerns for the rest of their lives. Therefore, to convince two adult people who have entered into marriage with their will, have no children, have to stay in that marriage, thus bringing the Center for Social Care, who have a lot of work, who are overworked to deal with something that is completely unnecessary, we thought that this is something that needs to be moved out of the law, and I think it's bad that it's back now, because you two people who have decided to divorce can't convince them to stay married together, you can convince them for days, weeks, months, and months, they will do again what they have decided because they have neither of their own will entered into marriage and have the right to step out of that marriage. So, the moment there are no children, we don't think we should waste excessive energy on intermediation among married partners. It also deletes something here that we installed half a year ago in the Family Law, which is the possibility of contesting motherhood we were primarily invited to this decision in public press, by launching an investigation by the state's attorney about the suspicion that some doctors, therefore misusing their position, were taking without knowing, therefore not getting permission from patients taking their egg cells and donating them, or rather giving them to other women even in other countries, is something that is absolutely inadmissible, it represents a sort of criminal act, and we thought that we should open here the possibility that even in this way we could challenge motherhood. Of course, it is a very small number of cases, however, it should be right and if only 0.5% or 1% of such people should open up the possibility of doing so. On the other hand, I'd like to say that we were here yesterday talking about how we're going down, how we have fewer and fewer children. I personally think that even the SDP Club disagrees with this most, how can I say, the most drastic methods of cloning and other things, however, all the other methods that medicine can do, where medicine can help both men and women who can't have their children for various reasons, I think that this way should open up the legal possibility that all those who can't have children, so to speak naturally, but need medical help, I think they should open it and that everyone should have as much of a chance to get to their own child. As for Article 8 of the amendment of this section, which says that a single witness for adoption of children will be run, I would like to say that we also said that a central record of the city of Zagreb, which is the largest with the largest number of centres, is run by one of its central eyewitnesses, however, it certainly does not solve that big problem, and this is a very large number of children in carefree children's homes who do not have the conditions for adoption. So, in Croatia it's no problem at all to find an adoptive parent, it's a much bigger problem to free children from irresponsible parental care, so what people say, parents who hold their legal paws over children, keep them until they're of age in carefree children's homes, never come to see them, never care about them. However, the problem is that social care centres are very difficult and very slow to decide to take away parental care, so there is a key problem, and I think that there will be a lot more work to do, maybe a little bit of teaming up social care centres, educate people who will work and choose people who will work only on these cases, because the sooner you get your children out of their homes, the less chance they will live on with traumas and scars, therefore, that they are left behind and, of course, one institution as good, well arranged as any breeders, breeders love and care for those children, never... something that can replace a family environment that can then be provided if adopted. [[no switch]] So it's something to work on, so it's a completely different thing to set up social care centers. After all, helping these people who are often burdened with completely irrelevant and marginal things, so some things set up technically and leave this part to one number of people in each center to deal with it exclusively. And in the end, I'll say one more thing about the courts. Namely, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, we were obliged to transfer this part of civil-law matters to court. So I don't think we're still able to form family courts financially in this country, that's what we should do, but that's something that's in the perspective that's only possible in the future. Now we can go to what we have written in the law, which is family departments, so in all courts, we can team up a number of people, educate them, train them to make quality decisions in this problem of family relations. According to me, for example, at the Municipal Court in Zagreb, there could be about a thousand to a half of such cases a year. Therefore, according to what can now be said, it will be necessary to employ new judges and new funding with the education that I have been informed of because the systematic education of two years ago in the Ministry of Justice is therefore organised for all courts and all judges. On the other hand, I think we've given one decent deadline for the initial formation of family courts in our six-month courts. Unfortunately, nothing has moved, we can in this way extend the deadline to the next six months, and again for six months until some mechanisms are found that primarily representatives of the courts who are in charge of reorganising the work of the court that will do their part of the work, be responsible and serious representatives of the courts, so I'm afraid that this way we can postpone six by six months and therefore the family departments will never live. Here, as far as we're concerned, on behalf of the SDP Club, because of what we've said, because we think these changes are no better for Croatian citizens, we're going to vote against these changes to family law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2152	I thank the esteemed protégé of Milanka Opačić. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The word has a distinguished representative, Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I understand correctly, my colleague, Opačić, on the subject of an amendment to Article 3. Family law where it's talked about an extramarital community colleague said that in real life one can come to have more extramarital communities at the same time and that this is hard to prove. However, later recognition of the marriage union. I would like to say that I am correcting it in this sense if I understand my colleague correctly because Croatian legislation then enters the area of bigamy and Croatian legislation does not know bigamy and admit it regardless of what it is about the extramarital community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2154	Thank you. Next to correcting the incorrect allegations, Mr. Pleš's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Opačić, probably accidentally said that she did not understand why she was changing the name of her husband’s mate. For the sake of the public, it shall not be changed throughout the law but only in one article, so in one paragraph of Article 42(2). In other items, a mate remains.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2156	On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, I would like to explain this very amendment in Article 42, this amendment proposed by the Government so that only in this article the wording "marriage mate" is changed to "husband" and Article 42 in paragraph 2, so this is an article that speaks about divorce. A divorce may require a marriage mate and both marriage mates by mutual agreement. And now paragraph 2. "A spouse has no right to sue for divorce during a woman's pregnancy or until their child turns one year old.". This change in the wording or term "marriage mate" to "marriage" is proposed to protect the child or to protect the woman, to protect the mother during pregnancy or during the time to the year of the child's life. Why? Because that change allows a woman to ask for a divorce. So, in the case of domestic violence, we've been trying to bring this into line with life and life situations. In the event that a pregnant woman is beaten, harassed, and, of course, when that situation becomes completely unsustainable, we think we should leave the possibility for a woman to get out of it. My husband doesn't. Why? Because we're also harmonizing with life. The easiest thing to do is to leave a pregnant woman, for example, to disappear and leave her to poverty, of course to leave her without money, without income. So this provision tries to comply with life, protect the mother in pregnancy, and up to the year of the child’s life.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2158	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. I note that club presidents have an 11 o'clock meeting at the 149 hall. It is on behalf of the HSP Club, the distinguished representative of Slaven Letica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2159	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister! The HSP club will be very pleased if it is on the occasion to support this legislative proposal. We're not too happy that he's coming in for an emergency procedure either. It gives us great comfort that the changes proposed are not so radical that the previous law adopted last year reflected the traditional values of Croatian society. That he was in some kind of post modern sense, in a sense conservative, and that's kind of a compliment to the coalition government. As far as the occasion is concerned, I would take advantage of it that it may be precisely due to the adoption of this law because I am first in the Assembly, respecting the legality in such a way as to radically insist in the Croatian Parliament, in the Croatian National Assembly. And that's one thing that needs to be supported because I've had a headache for two or three days and it's unsustainable, especially yesterday, and the gases showed up in the Parliament, and I had to go and then this commission of conflict of interest was debated. I believe it's not about each other. So, as far as the text of the law is concerned, great security and comfort to the club of HSP has provided the Minister's information that Dubravka is brave and... They took part in the creation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, yeah... I must remind Dubravka Horvat was the proposal of the HSP Club for an external member of the committee against conflicts of interest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To remind you, it is by the judgments of multigenerational students from the Faculty of Law that the most ethically unquestioned person at that university is either the leading expert on family law and I hope that right now, during this debate, the most unquestioned person in this university will finally be respected and this proposal by the HSP Club that such a person will appear. As far as the law is concerned yesterday, I said something that the HSP Club would be extremely pleased to see this law treated as an organic law, at least according to the formal result of the vote, or that it represents more than 77 representatives. Because the importance of this law justifies such treatment regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision which was contrary to that position. As far as terms are concerned, we only have one condition that looks like a termological nature I mentioned yesterday, by the way, now I'm going to explain a little bit that in the whole text of the law the notion of divorce is replaced by the concept of divorce. And not because of the metaphors themselves, generally the metaphors of, for example, the metaphor of the trio and dog that you rated as very aggressive and offensive yesterday are not at all at all, but in some ways bizarre and banal and therefore should not be used and it would be bad for people not to be able to point out the threes and dogs in this House because it would significantly limit freedom of expression of opinion, belief, knowledge and ignorance. So let's not be in that sense. As far as the concept is concerned, the promoter, the motion to the Constitutional Court for the procedure of assessing the consent of the former Family Law with the Constitution, Mr Petar Marija Radelj, a well-known theologian of the polyglot, translator, poet, also proposed by the HSP Club for a member of this committee against conflicts of interest, said a little radically in his submission to the Constitutional Court: the term divorce to the Croatian legal system was imposed from Belgrade by the great Serb hegemonists and the Bolshevik-Communist Starho government under the Constitutional Law on Marriage. He is a Dominican by education, with them being hyperpolymic one of the customs they participated in the processes of fighting within Western Christianity and how it must be used. As for the change of husband, marriage mate, it is handsome to me like that change even though it is of course not an essential nature. As far as the ideal is concerned, we should talk a little yesterday, it is not possible to legislate as we all need to be aware that the Family Law is right by the claims of Professor Brave and Decent Step does not affect the family's not increasing population in Croatia. So it would be good if our ideal was three families, that the people sitting in the Parliament would think a little bit about it, especially when it's boring. As regards Article 53, which changes the definition of mother, we must be aware that there will be problems with this, the HDZ Club has already expressed its opinion with the problem of surrogate mothers and the whole problem that will relate to the development of modern medical technologies. Until further notice, however, we can be rationally conservative at least until we become full members of the European Union. The HSP club is very sorry that no article is dedicated to grandparents. Grandparents are important institutions in this society. It wouldn't have to be too much, it could be symbolic to show the importance of these institutions. For the emotional happiness of a child, the love of a mother is important, it is important for the mother to breastfeed. It is very important that the Minister for European Integration publicly promotes breast-feeding. With motherly love, however, fathers are very important. So the presence or absence of a father in the family can be an introduction to future, emotional, and other disorders, including abuse and behavior of a different type in the family. Grandparents and grandparents are especially the refuges of safe oasis in the emotional life of children because only those love of grandparents are unconditional conditions. While young people have children, they're nervous, the law doesn't regulate an institution of postpartum so-called. The sorrows that should also be mentioned. As far as Article 126 is concerned, we would like the legislator to consider the beliefs we have accepted on the basis of the reflection of the distinguished parliamentary representative, Ruza Tomasic, that the adoption or adoption provisions are not well defined. In general, adoption is limited to mothers aged 20 to 30 years, and an exceptional difference is made in the second paragraph of this article. Unfortunately, two protests have been agreed, that people live longer and later on, they get married, and all they get are children. So that's between normal so-called. The population of mothers is about 40%, which up to 30 have no children of their own. It should therefore be changed to at least 40 years. It is particularly restrictive and harmful to that provision where it is said that the difference between the age of a mother and a child must be 18 years. It's very bad because if you let a 21-year-old mother adopt a child, and it's the hardest thing for children per country who are 1 year old, say 5, 6, 7 years old and who have no one to adopt. Therefore, we insist that changes be designed in this sense. I would finally draw attention to the fact that otherwise it can be tolerated at the beginning of each government, but that no scientific unfounded facts are used in the reasoning. In general, the big problem of people who change their own beliefs is about the environment, as Matoš would say, which has no solid knowledge. People with solid knowledge still find it harder to change their beliefs. In this sense, the argument under Article 2 which, otherwise, the HSPa club in principle and with pain or anxiety supports. Because it happens that even the closest relatives have children, but for many reasons we support a provision to refuse the exemption of marriage between children and sisters and siblings and half brothers and half sisters. But it is said here that children born in such marriages are at increased risk of being born with psychophysical damage. It's one of many stereotypes, which has no basis for serious genetic research. As there is a belief, for example, that poets and assembly counselors tend more often than peasants, and the situation is completely reversed. 4 times more often, peasants experience heart attacks than intellectuals. But the intellectuals sing their every heart attack and you can see it on TV. A colleague of Selen's. And that's why you must always know that stereotypes appear in different ways. Finally, I would like to say that we would be pleased and I am not quite sure that I am quite right that this is the subject of regulation of this law. To regulate an old idea that was present in our pre-election campaign and it's related to the environment, so if you want and if you don't need to torture the Prime Minister with the Chachi case, I think it's gone too far in public and so on. But his case of not paying child support is not an exception. Our idea was to form as usual too many state funds of trust and so on, and I fear that in this respect the HDZ Government will be the Government of the Left Centre. Unfortunately, the HSPe alone will remain on the right side with a piece of HSS, so we'll be bored in that area. It's our idea to form a state fund from which it would be some kind of resecuritisation fund from which mothers would be paid off by alimony. And then the judgmental, judicial and other ways are forced and the debts of these unsolicited husbands who are incompatible when working children, especially when raising them and raising them. According to the atom, we will support this law if these are adopted for us. A representative of the club will say something in the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2160	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Slaven Letica. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2161	Mr. Letica's quote when he says that it is not scientifically founded that children are born more often with diseases and malformations born from marriages to consagvinity. It's medically genetically proven and it's really on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2162	Thank you. 11 and 25 I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired time to apply for a 10 minute debate at 11, and 27 means two more minutes. Next on behalf of the club of representatives of HSLSA DCa, the Đurđa Adlešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2163	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will, on behalf of the HSLS DC Club, support the amendments to this Act. And I can really do it quite peacefully without objecting to those who remember my presentation now on behalf of the H SLS Club in the last term when this Law was passed. Because that's when we reminded ourselves of the lack of law and of the elements that change exactly these changes. In fact, we have even then expressed our skepticism in the training of the courts. Especially the deadline given to these courts. Without getting clear answers on how education will go, which will handle and what are actually guarantees that courts are qualified for new obligations. And in doing so, we warned that people in the centers with social care have experts and have experience. We also opposed the conclusion of marriages between blood relatives. But I will remind you that at that time, when we passed the law, we said that the law has some elements that are conservative. By reading later, however, we might be able to warn that they are also unusual in some other elements. So I'm guessing this law is still going to change. The elements of the laws that change today are, therefore, entirely acceptable to us to raise our hand for change. But I also have to warn you that some articles that are probably more controversial, may require more expertise and less politics. For example, if the Family Law reads that marriage is governed by law, parents and children, adoption, custody, but also the effects of the extramarital community of women and men, so women and men, as well as the actions of the competent authorities in relation to family relations and custody. Article 3 says: "The provisions of this law on the effects of the extramarital community apply to the life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who does not live in another extramarital community that lasts at least 3 years or shorter if a child is born in it." So, this relationship, or this time of 3 years or shorter if it's in it, in that relationship, a common child is acceptable. However, life also creates some combinations that are different, and it seems to me that this article does not correspond with real life, and then we declared it conservative. So it would be good to see what to do to find children born in different combinations, imaginatives, such as the union of single women and married men in this article. We must admit that such combinations and such children exist. Therefore, it would be good to see how such children are classified in Article 3. Because the combination of a single woman and a single man at the birth of a child very often leads them into marriage. The article 42, which I would like to warn you about, even though the minister actually explained what it means to talk about divorce, says that a mate does not have the right to sue for divorce during a woman’s pregnancy or until their child turns one year old. It protects a woman, really, except when there's violence in the family. If this article were to remain this way, but according to the minister's words it does not remain, then only domestic violence would actually prolong and it would be totally unacceptable for women, and unfortunately safe houses and houses where domestic violence victims are usually women and children. We warned at that time about some terms, and I really think there is a need for the help of the profession, some terms that I wouldn't say modern, but they're unusual, and for women I hold offensive, and I'm saying that for the third term. Namely, it says the child's father is considered to be - the term "supposed" is still used. So you probably know? The term to consider a father I hold to be an offensive term and I believe that a more adequate term or recognition of paternity can be found for him. Well, sin is admitted. Fatherhood's probably being accepted? I don't think it's a sin. We will therefore support these amendments and I will repeat the proposal that I made yesterday, saying about this first package of laws, which today was mentioned again by my colleague Letica and I believe that we could reach a consensus on it regardless of our political differences, which is the necessity of establishing a fund. And today you can see the reactions of women, mothers who support the establishment of the fund. In fact, the fact is that 60% -- that data I made yesterday -- is the alimony of the unpaid, and 80% are being tried by the court. So much for your father's responsibility. So such a fund is needed and it would really be good for the state to take the obligation to force such fathers to settle their debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2164	I thank the honourable representative Adlesic. This is what we've concluded with the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here today, it was said, by the proposings of the Vice-President and Minister, that we are implementing the HDZ programme by this law. And that's what citizens need to know how the HDZ programme is implemented in the family's most intelligent policy. We've seen the VAT, there's no way to respect the proposal to reduce children's products. Yesterday, too, my suggestion was that a woman who had given birth to three children who decided to take advantage of employment. These are real and concrete measures. We'll see, I don't think there's any of that yet. So these are all measures that cost something. But we're still doing ideologies here. So, about the fundamental changes recently changed last year, the Family Law. He's made a lot of improvements. However, with these urgent changes and additions to the Family Law, nothing seems to be, but goes back to the old ones, goes back up, actually ideologies, and there are no improvements, but changes that are illegal and unconstitutional. After all, the courts themselves who need to be constantly assisted for what is just the executive and legislative authority will be brought into an even more difficult situation. So, in general, just about these things that concern all citizens shouldn't be watched by a hidden party program... /The speech room has been excluded by the law of one party against another party... and the interest is to make laws in the interests of the citizens. [[no switch]] But it is the responsibility of the ruling. In Article 1, we will find it difficult to mislead the courts themselves, and then the judicial authority for our own ineffectiveness and irresponsibility will be the on-call culprit. In this regard, the Commission notes that the Commission is not in a position to assess the situation as a matter of urgency. It is clear that an out-of-marriage community is recognized only between an unmarried woman and an unmarried man. However, life knows the situation two marriages, more situations in which men or women support, or live in an extramarital community. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. However, how it cannot be established when the court is just obliged to determine whether there is an extramarital community between the two people. In this way, two out - of - wedlock communities can be found in a competitive situation and the court will not know what they will do or can act in accordance with this Article. That is why we need to look at this aspect of the situation and it is necessary to return it to the existing article 3. I say this arrangement because the courts will find themselves in a difficult situation. Which out-of-marriage community to give... and can be born children in the same extramarital communities at the same time. [[You don't understand.]] In Article 5, Mrs Opačić has already stated on behalf of the club that, with the heavy burden not only of courts but also of our administrative bodies, social welfare centres that have a whole series of other jobs, now force the reconciliation between spouses who do not have a common juvenile child or children over whom parental rights is indeed the spending of state resources, and often precisely to the harm of that spouse who wants a divorce. Because it's mostly older people, most often it's a woman living in a marriage, but there's no restraint, it's being denied, because that's how violence against women is exercised to deny her even though she's doing all her chores, she's being denied the elemental means of living, and then this is the only way to get her divorce to get her right to support. So the legislator must certainly take care of what is happening in life. So this is a harmful provision because, on the one hand, we spend state resources on something that two adults who don't have underage children say, or children who are adopted or over whom parental rights are extended, there's no need, and on the other hand, it's directly harmful to the spouse who started the lawsuit, who initiated the divorce suit, and the other one is opposed to it just so that he'll scrutinize it and avoid the obligation to abstain. Article 6 of the Amending Article 53 was expected because the HDZ explicitly opposed it. We have heard here today that this change has taken place in collaboration with experts from the Faculty of Law. You should ask women about this. Were the women's associations questioned? Are the medical profession experts involved in this problem? Has anyone contacted or been there at the Human Reproductive Office to meet with the dramas of women who will never become mothers in this way? So I would ask Mrs. Vice President and Minister, perhaps if not her personally, but indeed to find someone in the name of the Government to go where they really go every day of that human drama and to have someone tell those women directly, not in vain is you not going to be a mother because of Roman law there is a principle that the mother of the child is the one who gave birth to him and there is no discussion about it. We don't respect something that's a matter of life, we don't respect something that's developing medicine, we don't respect a woman's body in terms of equality and availability as it allows, and it's long been allowed for men's uterus is primary. That's what you should do. But on the other hand, we should all be here also clearly that abuses are possible, that in Croatia there are women who have given birth in menopause. Are you wondering whose egg cell? A woman today, if we're not going to regulate this, by law, there's a possibility that you're going to have a harmless gynaecological examination, that your egg cell is being kidnapped, that it's being implanted into the body of a rich woman who can't give birth anymore because there's no egg cell, or it doesn't work, where it's stimulated, but there's uterus, so it's stimulated with hormones, and it can give birth to a child anytime, but this other one doesn't. A man is allowed to have his own life. The husband of a mother or another man may be the father of a child without having taken part in the conception of a child and there are no moral or ethical dilemmas here, nor have there been then decades of debate. But when we put the same thing in women, then it's asked whether it's a question of ethics and other aspects of observing this problem and there's no doubt that it's a problem, but then if we're really ethical people, then such a problem should be considered jointly, with full equality between men and women. And I say once again, as yesterday was the case, and here today is the case, that here the female body is really a polygon for exercising someone's political efficiency and power and for implementing its program on the female body. In the provision of Article 15, first of all, as regards nomotechnics. This provision, if it remained due to its opposition, would cause a difficult situation in application because we do not have a place because the current Family Law, the former one, has ceased to apply, and with this amendment, Article 15 is scarred, which is not possible in this way and is still strengthened. Once again, I plead that it really is in a difficult situation, but if they need to, here, now come and prepare the budget, additional funds will be provided to make all of this happen, but I'm just afraid because it's already announced. Here, today we're going to discuss this bill of salary for the judges, and there's no money for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2166	I thank the honourable representative. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by distinguished representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2167	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, my colleague has said that the amendments will make the law worse, worse, which is incorrect. The changes will make the law better. Secondly, she said these changes were illegal. How illegal can they be if they are being debated in this House and intend to be brought through it? And third, I really have no comment on the female body polygon.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2168	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Vice-President and Minister Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2169	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here are a few, several answers that I owe on behalf of the promoter, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to present behind this speaker after the presentation of the distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović. She was talking about the program being implemented. Yeah, that's the program on which we got the election, that's the programme that's partly, that's what you're criticizing today, but that's why we got 66 seats. You're saying that in this proposal, we're dealing with an amendment to the law, which is an emergency procedure in front of the MPs, and I quote. Interestingly, you have not mentioned a single word of the basic reason why the changes and additions to the urgent procedure are before us today. The main reason is the problem that would arise because of the fact that under the Family Law proposed in the mandate of the last government, businesses in important family issues are being transferred from the welfare centre to courts. From July 14th last year until the end of last year nothing on preparation for this transfer was made. It's interesting that you didn't mention the fact that the attorney for the children was also talking about. That nothing has been done since 14 July, therefore, to prepare judges for this very complex job, that judges have not attended any additional education related to these changes, that no coordination with social care centres is agreed with which close co-operation is necessary, that in smaller courts and one judge, and that is the problem, often solves all cases, that the law implies, I repeat 24-hour duty in courts. It's a problem that's becoming extremely serious. Therefore, for all these problems that have accumulated, it is not the responsibility of this government, which, however, tries this urgent procedure, and we hope that it will be accepted in the Croatian Parliament, to save what was given because the deadline for preparation was until January 22nd. Therefore, in the first possible period in which we could as a new government we proposed these changes to the Croatian Parliament. Next, I'm going to quote you here, because I think you should know the facts of the attorney for the children. "The other big problem," she notes, "related to the protection of children's rights and welfare concerns the quality of family law", a family law passed for the term of office of the previous government and the past government. Not the ones proposing these changes. And it consists of being able to talk about the absence of any systematic concept in certain solutions. This applies to the absence of criteria for the division of matter to which courts will solve in litigation and those to be settled in non-partisan proceedings. So, these are extremely important problems which clearly, according to the court of the interested professional public, were also discussed by professors whom you certainly cannot deny competence, Step and Brave from the Faculty of Law. Therefore, these were sufficient arguments for the government to decide on the urgency of the procedure. That's what you weren't talking about. You're talking about the anti-constitutional and illegality of these proposed amendments which, of course, I cannot accept and you're saying that the law of one party is, in fact, that we're doing the law of one party against the law of another party which I also reject. Therefore, the fundamental reason for these changes and additions is the urgency of the procedure because of the fact that there would be a simple collapse in the system, related to extremely sensitive things. As for your objections to others, I would like to inform this distinguished House that, that my ministry will encourage the adoption of the Law on, which should regulate all these issues which today were related to the aided insemination, but... which must be adopted, which must be discussed inter-departurely and until its adoption, I think the solution is seen in Article 77. [[no switch]] Family law when it comes to issues of motherhood dispute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2170	I would like to thank the Vice President and Minister for the Croatian Government. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the esteemed representative Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2171	Mr. Vice President, Madam Vice President, I'm correcting your incorrect allegations, saying that the former government has done nothing to prepare the judiciary. She didn't do anything, hired over 400 judges, raised wages, found all sorts of ways of space, it's true it's just beginning a process that's going to be really waiting for you now to continue in that sense. So, education started, it wasn't before at all, so you need resources to continue all of this, but you say with the next law there is no means for the judiciary and the primate is the judiciary, so you really have to decide in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2172	On behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2173	I'll be out of place. I didn't say anything was done by the Honorable Madam MPs, I was merely quoting the lawyer's opinion of the children she sent in writing and the Ministry of Justice. So I quoted her point of view and her opinion I am very careful in grades and evaluations since I am speaking now on behalf of the government. As far as the judges' salaries are concerned, and the past government, as I recall, didn't have enough money for them, but there's only one after the debate, so I don't want to overestimate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2174	I apologize for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2175	Mr. Vice-President, the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to Article 209 which states paragraph 2: "If a representative asks a word to correct the incorrect quote, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes the speech of the person who made the quote." I raised my tile and I was convinced that you saw me during the speech of my colleague Antičević Marinović, so please give me a word to correct the incorrect quote that was in her speech. Based on exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2176	Thank you. Next. Infringement of Rules of Procedure Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2177	Mr. Vice-President Ms. Antičević Marinovic injured Article 209 of the Rules of Procedure because she did not correct the incorrect allegations that she reported to the minister's presentation, but provided arguments that were not the subject of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2178	Partly respect. It is up to the honourable representative Ivo Josipovic. He lost his right to debate since he was not present at the Assembly. The next word came from the esteemed Mr. Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2179	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Let me first express my regret as to why this amendment and the addition of the Law is adopted by an urgent procedure, there is a lot of attention to the preparation of courts for the implementation of this Law, but it is weakly kept in mind that, in fact, a lot of time should be devoted to the adoption of such laws between the two procedures and the preparation of our citizens because it directly touches any family or can come into contact with any family. That's number one. Number two, the reason why it is stated because of the need for an emergency procedure doesn't really stand as completely wrong and let me express my... it seems to me that this bill has been made superficially, by authority, and in fact completely groundlessly related to the fundamental reason why it is being brought. This is about Article 15. In fact, Article 15 is actually trying to postpone the application of certain provisions for the next time from sometime to the 9th month and it was made so that it has practically hurt or may question the legal security of the Republic of Croatia and even an unconstitutional position. I'll be free to explain. Articles 44 to 50, 99, 100, 101, 103, 104, 105 and 106 shall apply. Family law. However, those articles were in force until 22 January 2004, with the exception of Article 114, in accordance with the provisions of Article 367. So after the 22 January 2004 family law, they no longer exist because they ceased to apply. Therefore, the provision of Article 15(1) injures the principle of legal certainty and rules of nomothtechnics, in addition to that, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which prescribes... and must be published in the National Journal prior to entry into force. And these articles, since they ceased to apply on 22 January 2004, no longer exist in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the absolutely inadmissible provision of Article 15 is as prescribed, in the follow-up of these articles and raises the security and trust of Croatian citizens in the legal system. In order to comply with the principle of legal certainty and with the rules of nomothechnik intensities of Article 15, it can only be achieved by supplementing the final draft law amending and supplementing the Family Law with the... content of the articles referred to in Article 15(1) which are actually intended to ensure that they continue to apply until after 9 months of this year. I think it is quite clear what I am talking about, and I think that those who have asked this question have done completely wrong, as the Legislative Committee has finally made a mistake with its amendment, because the amendment to Article 15, which says for another 6 months to extend its action until the entry into force of this Law, is also wrongly laid down because it has dropped out here the full fact that these provisions have ceased to exist and that they are no longer in the legal system. The second observation I have to make is related to some of the provisions of the laws that are at first sight interesting, but it is not about important things and I think they are actually too high in the proposal to amend and supplement the law. For example, the replacement in Article 4 amending Article 42, paragraph 2, where the word “marriage mate” is changed to replace the word “husband”, is in fact unnecessary because it is perfectly clear from the manipulation of paragraph 2, Article 42 that it refers to a husband rather than a woman. Here I will quote how, as the existing Law regulates: “A spouse does not have the right to sue for divorce during the pregnancy of a woman or until their child turns one year old”. It is clear here that it refers to that mate, the man, and not the wife, and it is not necessary to indicate that it is the husband. Thus, in the unity of legal terms, in one law of nomotechnical reasons, it should leave the notion of a spouse rather than changing him with the word husband. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I have to say that article 44 hasn't changed at all, but in the content part it's literally copied. It is only really differently systemised in this bill and instead of being a single article with one article he has now set up as an article in two paragraphs which is actually the task of science to deal with this, and it is not the task of legislation and I think in this respect it is obviously the influence of external advisers who have worked in this regard. I must say that I also agree with all the comments relating to Article 6 concerning an Article 53, what about a surrogate and in this respect it is quite clear that this is a matter that needs to be clarified in particular. It is very interesting in Article 8 amending Article 135, paragraph 5, where nothing really changes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is only further that, addedly, a central eyewitness will be led on the potential of adopters and adoptions. Prior to that, it should be prescribed that the eyewitness handles it. It's not prescribed by law. Thus, there was a failure, and in such a situation, a new article was actually to be inserted, which stipulates that an eyewitness would be kept on potential, potential adoptive, and adopted, and then only prescribed that a special eyewitness would be kept on it. I must say, in the end, that he was also interesting to note the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives, which suggests that in Article 365, paragraph 2 changes the word “social care” for the word “family”. This proposal is a bill on amendments and amendments to the law, the Family Law does not have 365 articles. He has a total of 15 articles. It is therefore an old article in the current law, and not about, this Bill proposal, and it is necessary to make a completely different amendment. This is a complete ignorance of actually the business procedure regarding the proposal and the submission of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2180	Thank you very much, Mr. Arlovich. We don't have this one. There's a word from Madam Representative Lucia Chickesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2181	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear gentlemen, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to join the debate on a proposal to amend the family law. As we heard, the Family Law experienced its changes last year and has been applied since 22 July 2003. It is not only that small part of the application for which the application was delayed on 30 September 2004. The government of the Republic of Croatia appreciates the efforts of the previous government and did not say that the law is no good but simply disagrees with certain solutions in the Law and makes its proposals, of course, better proposals. I'd like to start with Article 3. The family law which defines the extramarital community, and throughout this period it is disputed that the provisions of this Act as to the effects of the extramarital community apply to that life union of an unmarried woman and an unmarried man who does not live in another extramarital community and who lasts at least 3 years and shorter if a common child is born in it. Since the existence of this other extramarital community is very difficult to regulate and very difficult to register because it is not even registered anywhere, we ignore that other union and then the article would read: without this other community than any single woman and any single man living 3 years or shorter if they have a child then they can regulate their community. Of course, in no way do we accept Article 2 of Article 28, which reads: “that, for exceptional reasons, the court may, in a non-partisan procedure, allow marriage between the children of sisters and brothers and children of half-sisters and half-brothers.” These are marriages among blood relatives. Blood kinship is a feature of people with the same blood, and it is a bond that binds people from the same root, which means that the basis of blood relatives is birth, not marriage. Therefore, Article 28(2) should be deleted in full. Someone will say this is only exceptional because in paragraph 3 of the same membership everything is said. Not to quote it, it's not allowed, and in which case no marriage is allowed between sisters and half-sisters. However, if we say that this is exceptional if we approve, it can go very quickly into mathematical progress and certain marriages are concluded under certain circumstances and from different initiatives and interests. So over 40 years ago, the world-renowned geneticist Mecustic described the entire village of dwarfs on the island of Krk and brought it out throughout the medical literature as an example of the closed community where all marriages are in constagvinity. Not for no reason... the damaged child in the past always includes at least two generations, and preferably three generations, so that from the genealogical tree, we can determine whether it is an autosmal dominant or autosisive disease, or whether it is a sexually related dominant or sexually related recessional heritage. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] In marriages in... There's a much greater possibility of having a sick child, and that's scientific evidence. [[You don't understand.]] We've heard before that there's no scientific evidence for it. Not only is disease inherited, but the tendency of disease is inherited, so children born in these marriages if they are not born sick are born with great proclivities of disease. Genetics teaches us, and besides the church doesn't allow me to think four knees ago about making marriages. By law, we must not allow marriages among blood relatives, but we must do everything possible to improve both the physical and mental abilities of future generations. I would also refer to Article 42, paragraph 2, where a mate does not have the right to sue for divorce during the pregnancy of a woman or until his child is one year old. A second condition is said for pregnancy, but not without reason. Because during pregnancy the mother is very... She's preparing for motherhood and needs psychosocial peace. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] This is exactly what would have disturbed you with great repercussion on her alone and on the child she's carrying. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Family law. The child's mother is considered the woman who gave birth to him. There's nothing to be considered. The child's mother who gave birth to him, because birth is something unquestionable, unquestionable, and one very visible fact. and finally, I would like to ask and propose, we from the members of the Croatian Democratic Community will fully support this proposal to amend the law, because these changes in the Family Law are intended only to give birth to a healthy child, and then to protect that healthy child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2182	Thank you, Madam Representatives, Lucius Chikesh. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Jelena Pavicic-Vukicevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that the distinguished colleague Letica has already warned about. It is not true that genetic malformations prohibit marriage between sisters and siblings, half-sisters and half-brothers. In fact, it has been scientifically proven that children born in such a marriage are not genetically deprived and threatened. Such marriages are avoided, for the sake of possible frequent marriages within a family, which was common in small, isolated islands. For these reasons, the law so far forbidded marriage, only a few exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2184	I thank Mrs. Representatives. And now the word has Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2185	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We talked yesterday about a similar problem when we spent almost all day on a similar subject related to both children and family, etc. and it has indeed proved that it is not easy to regulate the area that is related to love, those relationships that result from marriage, family, and so on. Already at the second session when it came to the structure, the new formation of the government and the ministries, in that material that we received for your ministry, Madam Minister, it was said that one of his intentions was paraphrasing, but in fact to reduce the number of divorces, in one section there was mentioned in one sentence. You too, with these changes in the explanation, have also proposed one measure to restore the process of intercession during divorces and where there were no children in marriage. We've already heard from a few predecessors that a dilemma is being set, which means saving a marriage when spouses come to that line, to the point where they think neither partner or partner no longer wants to, and that's when one doesn't want to, then what the other one has to look for, to be in that kind of community. In particular, the question arises here, and this is when neither children are concerned, if some think it is a strong motive, even though it would be possible to discuss it, which means preserving the marriage community and having children, if those children suffer in that kind of marriage community where violence occurs. Maybe, and we don't know what forms of hidden violence, mental violence, etc. Not only does physical exist when these marriage partners come to the point that they do not want to live in that community, so it may also be healthiest for children to be out of such a community. Besides, you can open any newspaper on a daily basis, so there's no day to read in those black chronicles how, as I know, the son killed his father with an axe, a knife, a rifle, because he was harassing his mother or something, etc., so there's marriage, there's a family... violence and that violence sometimes as violence of a child who wants to protect a usually powerless person, which is in principle a mother. [[no switch]] Then a dilemma arises for us whether we should have tried as a society, and then we here as the supreme legislative body in this country so that we can pass such laws that will help not to have such families or if there are such marriages that they can be broken down. That's why I think we should say no to marriage at all costs. Marriage itself cannot be even with happiness if it is only formally fulfilled, so that this family exists but has a number of other things. Yesterday we talked a lot about domestic violence, etc. That's why I'm not sure that we can legally, mention it again, or regulate happiness or love, or anything like that, but we need first of all to be the leader of reality reality. As regards Article 3 which is quite mentioned here, this is that in Article 42 of the Law, paragraph 2 of the word "marriage friend" is replaced by the word "husband" I think it is a very strong argument that any law must preserve the unity of legal concepts and that we simply have to define ourselves. If this article is considered to be insufficiently accurate, although we have heard here opinions specifically from fellow Arlovic that it is accurate, but if we do not think it is precise enough, then we change it but not so that we are changing the category apparatus i.e. that there is no longer a unity of legal concepts in the same law. There can't be a husband in one place and there's something else in the other place. Either one or the other, or whatever it is we'll agree on but there can't be that kind of confusion or the notional anarchy in the law. The second thing is that I think that this intensity, too, of these changes that Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister explained, is questionable. If I understand you correctly, you wanted to say how I understood that this change is actually wanted and must use that term "force" here we use the term "husband" to stay married to a pregnant woman if he doesn't want us to help her in that way. So if he's already reached that level, so you can call him a savage, you can call him whatever you want, that he wants to leave a pregnant woman, then he needs to be helped but legally forced to help her, etc. and not to stand in that community because a profile has been asked, I don't know, mentally and don't know what kind of, moral, what do you want to call it, a man who leaves or wants to leave his wife while she's pregnant or in the first year of the child's birth. But I think it's wrong now that we're forcing him to stay because that might leave the monster in the family. And the other thing is, let's make him responsible even though we know about these alimonys here, it was mentioned how few people are actually obliged to pay, but let's be effective in meeting therefore some of the obligations he has towards the family he left behind and not leaving him forcibly there. That's how I understood the intervention. In a way, it seems to me, I'm doing this normal thing now trying to translate what you said, but it seems to me that the intensity was that he couldn't. So he can't ask for a divorce during that period. Well, I don't think he really needs to be forced. I'd help him leave. Because listen, it's really one violence against feelings, emotions, and some reality in which when someone acts like it already shows insolence, he manifests just that he can't, that he can't stay in that marriage community. Let's work it out differently and I don't feel this kind of coercion. Forced in this area, nothing is resolved except to force him to be financially and otherwise held accountable but not to be there. Okay, well, there was this thing about extramarital communities, that's where the bigamy was mentioned. Bigamy's something else. That's when you get married twice. A colleague mentioned it, that's another thing. This is about an extramarital community. Or three times marry or 17 times if you have an appetite, I mean any of us. It is illegal, but it is the fact that this is about an extramarital community and whether it is possible to establish that there are several such extramarital communities, which in practice is by chance. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2186	I would like to thank Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, Madam Minister and Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just want to explain to the distinguished representative Jurjevic, as well as to the public. I think this is very important about your finding that you want to force your husband to change only in one article of the wording or definition of "marriage mate" into "husband." This is Article 42. But this article 42, which speaks of divorce now under the applicable norms of coercion, I use, both husband and wife, means both spouses because it only speaks of a mate who is married and cannot apply for divorce during the pregnancy of a wife and up to one year of a child. We now allow a woman to get out of hell if it's hell but we don't let that happen to her husband. So, that's why we change that word "marriage friend" to "husband" because unfortunately there are a lot of frequent cases of husband leaving or wanting to leave because he's tired of leaving his wife pregnant or with a small child, without any income and without actually a guaranteed existence. Here, that's the intensity. And the existing norm makes it impossible for both of them to get out of marriage. Yeah, that's right, here, look, I can give you a bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2188	I would like to thank Mrs. Secretary. Correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Mr Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2189	The correction of the incorrect quote refers to the interpretation that you have now given, according to my interpretation, now a marriage mate called a woman can leave. But I'm against any coercion. Your interpretation when you were talking about this, that we're not talking about the notional confusion that's coming up was still to make it possible. I think it's precisely from what counterpart Arlovic was saying it was understandable that even now it's possible. I don't think anyone should be forced to stay... It was the intensity of my debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2190	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Mr. Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2191	Dear Vice President, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Because of course, it is too much to say that I will support this law but not because it is only my party's policy of amending the law, but especially because of Articles 1 and 2 where the law of bigamy is disabled and the marriage of close blood relatives is disabled. Because it was really a big failure and it needs to be corrected. However, since this amendment to the law is a delay in application, I would also like to look back on a few things. It is often said here that the courts are not ready for the application of this law. I don't deny it. But my impression is that the law itself is not ready for application. And in fact, in that sense, there are a few thoughts that I would like to say that, by the start of the application of this law, certain amendments to the Family Law might be considered and introduced. In fact, it is a very complicated, complicated way of divorce, and no, my belief is not that this complicated path would help preserve marriage, and especially not my belief that this complicated way would help children if that marriage community had children at that time. In fact, it's been moving since the initiation of the lawsuit, and then it's an arrangement between the middleman and the middleman where I see it now, and the middleman can be an individual, I don't know the modern termology, is that now some bankruptcy manager? Well, then he goes, so of course, they won't make a deal because if they could make a deal about the middleman, then they wouldn't even get a divorce. So the court will appoint a mediator, and that mediator will talk about it for 3 months, and in 15 days they will inform the spouses, and they will report to the court, and it will go to the Centre for Social Work, and so on and so on for about a year. So, from filing a lawsuit to practically, practically the first one, the second court case goes on for a year. I think it's too long and from that point of view that I was talking about with the belief that it won't help either the preservation of marriage or the children who live more in harassment. And maybe one more thing, and that's just the act of starting a lawsuit. You know what it's like in practice in life if you press charges then it's a little harder to decide to drop charges. My belief is that there was a better way to go back then, which is to immediately go to the Center for Social Care and try reconciliation, and only if it's not going to go to court and a lawsuit. So, I repeat, the final thought, which is why I answered, my belief is that not only is the judiciary not ready for this, but the law is not ready for application. And I'd like something to change in that direction until the application. So I wouldn't get the wrong idea if I figured out my colleague Lalić when she said marriage didn't get on the train at one station to get out, at another station when I was talking about the simplification that you didn't think that I wanted it to get easier, the sooner the divorce happened. There's another saying in my neighborhood that says, "marriage isn't against it, but against it until death.". So, I just wanted to help, help in my thinking so that it would be easier for spouses to either get back together or get a divorce so it would be easier for children or children to get less harassed and so that if it was possible for that community to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2192	I thank Mr. Representative Nenadic. And now he has the word Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2193	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I couldn't have been as decadent as my previous say the law I'll support, I'm happy about it and I won't even support it. I would like to express my regret as to why we are reopening after 6 months and discussing issues that are good for the sake of saying this to the general public if these issues can be fully absorbed. It's precisely because the issues that are being treated and dealt with by the Family Law are so strong, day-to-day and comprehensively affecting the issues of our lives. I don't think it's a good common exception to the coastal law, it's simply in one extreme area of family relations that isn't just a relationship between contractual sides, but a relationship intertwined with emotions with very subtle extremities can intervene in these relationships in a rough way. Here very important also to raise the question of where the borders of state intervention are in the space and area of marriage, and family at all. That's why I'm unhappy with the frequent changes. When we were simply forced 6 months ago by the reasons for the change, we took great care of the subtlety of relations and areas that this law regulates. Unfortunately, this time we change the family law under duress simply because the courts that were to comply with good customs and law in the European Union took part in the responsibility of the social care centre did not prepare themselves to do the job. We can look for the culprits for this, but it would be far more productive to see how and where we can't get into a situation where, say, at nine months, we can talk again about any application or change of this law, because the courts won't be ready again for nine months unless they need it in six months. In this sense, it might be good to make some kind of operational plan, and to claim the competences that of the ministries, and three of them are in some way embodied both by the judiciary and the family and work or health care and social care. Which of them will do their part of the job. I also regret that perhaps the Constitutional Court has not ruled that this is an organic law. This may force us all to make changes to make sure that every 4 years or earlier in power, different epolitical options can be replaced and that this should not have a crucial impact on some important and important issues that are nevertheless on ideological nature. And who actually define the fundamental values in a society around which a certain consensus of the largest part of the population or citizens in one country can be established after all. So I think that no matter how extorted changes to this Law should have covered both those topics and those issues that we dealt with here six months ago and which were thoroughly discussed. Which has been professionally arguments, let some more specifically in science funded. Where we compared the experiences of other countries, where we also reflected our own tradition. Why are these issues now so easily and without further arguments? Perhaps because we new MPs get the opportunity to also manifest ourselves or express our own views of attitudes and so on. This issue of State interference in the area of privacy in the area of personality, emotion, and the principle that we will apply on that occasion determines the character of this article. Our principle last time we passed this law was to preserve the dignity of the people. It happened on several occasions that several people asked me to try to protect them from torture or endanger their dignity by divorce, going to the welfare center. where they're being interrogated by the unresponsible or at least that way they have, irresponsible, socially immature, and I don't know how different everything is. People who have achieved envious successes in their careers, who are discouraged, who are cultural but who unfortunately have experienced personal drama and divorce is not something that should be supported, something that should be stimulated. But it is in its own way a personal tragedy for people in whom it would be good for the state to preserve the dignity of these people. If there are no other effects and the Aryan is about children, then I really don't see any reason why two adults are forced to go through this mandatory procedure, or as they say, mediation. And that in front of a third person traumatized, they cut out their insides and their privacy. Because it is not so much a question of society that we should intervene as a state and as a legislator in that area. So I think that this principle of minor interference in these matters would be a good thing to respect in one of these laws. It is important and so much if in the country where we live we want to stimulate the freedom of individuals to choose a way, the lifestyle of the lives they want if other citizens and the values of the society they live in are at risk. It should not be an ambition to change life by law, I fear that this ambition is often fair in such laws, and in some others, because often the changes that occur are overlooked, and in the area of family, family relations, these changes are so evident that we cannot measure them by old criteria, old standards, and old arches, or change them. This also applies to a question that would be good if and because of the public who is following this, we were deciding, and this is what we are talking about. The unfortunate marriage of a cousin and a cousin who last blacked out the debate on much more important and important issues of family law, and as far as it goes, where it's decadently said that marriage cannot be concluded, beware, cannot be concluded in the law read by a blood relative in a straight line so far, and in a lateral line, etc. the brother, sister, etc., and only exceptionally in paragraph 2 is it said: "For justifiable reasons, the court may, in an extraparate procedure, allow the conclusion". There were three cases like that in 30 years. And why not allow that possibility? But I'm saying, it seems to me that it's more discipline than it is, and since I'm running out of time by Madam Vice President, just one practical question is not regulated anywhere in the law, and now it's an opportunity to make it administratively supervised in the centres in charge of that part of the family. That's where the minister in charge of social care is spoken. Then what are you going to do? What about second-degree procedures? Will the minister in charge of social care again or the minister in charge of the family? So by sublegal acts, I'm afraid that in 15 days or a month we're going to have to caricate again because of that lack we're going to have this law back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2194	I thank Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. Before I give my word to the lady who asked for a replica, I would like to inform her that the chairman of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić, called a meeting of the Committee today at 2.30 p.m. in Hall 233/II, so 233. And now, the replica of Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Thrakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2195	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Honored colleague Vidovic. I would be very brief as a new representative at least in this House, and with experience in the County, I would say that I don't think that one of the reasons why our government sent this law to the parliamentary procedure and the reason why we new representatives promote ourselves speaking about it is and I don't think that once a law has been passed in any House of Amen and that it could not be discussed in a way to improve the situation of those to whom any law applies, and this. And I can't agree with the thesis, and that's why I answered. I didn't answer for the debate precisely because as a new representative, I was taking the short way to pass this law. So I can't agree with the point that no matter what institutions he's faced or how long he's lasted something that's unnecessary because I don't think people involved in the fight can rationally decide if it's an emotional conflict, so often the time that passes since that conflict cools down, people can rationally decide on a further relationship. So sometimes someone on the side sees the situation better and helps with some of the advice to decide and protect children, which is the basic reason for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2196	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2197	I can express regret that my colleague obviously took my debate completely wrong or wrongly, and the figure on the promotion of new deputies was not used as the meaning of the debate that is being opened here today. But you've made a mistake, my colleagues. Here you don't talk about cases where families have, married couples have children. This is about families, or couples without children, who are forced to mediate. So, but here, I'm sorry if you misunderstood my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2198	... (speaks subsequently included)... Snowy Biga-Friganovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2199	Madam Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed, in the debate I would join all those who believe that this moment, except in that area that is necessary, it was not necessary to enter into such a significant law as the Family Law. And I really think since we brought it in July 2003 that we had to let go of time and follow up on all the problems we're facing, then eventually go into the changes that we need. With what counterpart Vidovic said, obviously very soon we will face another amendment to this family law, so I don't think we should have been in a hurry. But what is very important and what has startled me is an amendment to Article 7. Namely, which is because of the Croatian public but also because of the colleagues present here, I really want to warn myself, and that is the problem I warned about at the time when the Family Law was passed. You are Article 7. ... This is how you set him up. [[no switch]] In Article 86(2) and (3), paragraphs 2 and 3 are deleted and paragraphs 4 and 5 shall become paragraphs 2 and 3. What are you erasing? You are to be deleted from the old Family Law Article 86(2). “The woman who gave birth to a child, who was conceived with another woman’s ovary, has the right to challenge motherhood if the child had been conceived with medical help without her written consent.” And the third paragraph is also deleted: “The woman whose ovary was conceived without her written consent has the right to challenge the mothership of the woman who gave birth to him if at the same time asked to establish her motherhood.” Some knew about it and they paid for it, and some didn't even know it. This investigation is ongoing right now. And I ask you to think carefully that we do not want to make this change impossible to further process this process. You and I here take responsibility for it together. You, Madam Minister, said it would be possible to process Article 77. This has nothing to do with it. This article 77 does not refer to these cases. Therefore, once again, I ask you not to make it impossible for us to prevent the processing and that justice is not served. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2200	Thank you very much, colleague. You were last reported in an individual debate. Now we're going to the final words of the clubs. The only registered club is HNS's PGS club, co-worker Darko Shantic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In this brief address on behalf of the HNS and PGS, I would just like to explain a little bit more of our reasons why we will not support this proposal to amend and supplement the law, especially from the point of urgency of making these amendments and additions. Namely, the foothold to object to urgency in this procedure lies precisely in the present very rich, long-term and momentary debate. Why is that? Articles 1 to 14 of the proposed amendments and additions if we take away what is pure nomotechnic and cleaning of the text itself, legally, ethically, medically and ideologically deep into the matter of family legislation, and we have spent 99% of our time here just opposing that legal, ethically and somewhat medically, although we may be least competent here, and ideologically for which we are competent, different views. However, Article 15, which clarifies the need for urgent adoption of this law, does not have an attribute either legally or ethically or ideologically. He's practical. The promoter argues that the judiciary has not prepared itself for the takeover of cases which have so far been in the jurisdiction of the welfare centre. And that by any chance the proposer, which apparently was not his intention, put only in the procedure and only Article 15, we would have been long gone with that debate. I believe that they would unanimously vote to postpone the application of certain articles until September 30th, even though they might open up a debate in that case about who, why and how it led to the situation that the law must be postponed. I do not want in any case, under any circumstances, to question what the teachers who participated in the work on this law have said about the urgency, nor do I want to question the prosecutor’s opinion on the child’s needs, but within that I would like to say that it can be questionable why it is delayed. Is there any reason why the judiciary did not respond adequately or the judiciary does not have the opportunity to take over at this time? Namely, the judges are now judging in the procedures concerning the assignment and custody of children to raise... /No misdemeanor. /...in the regular divorce procedure. So they're not needed, they're not unprepared, at least as far as their expertise is concerned. I allow there to be some other elements that need to be prepared. So the conclusion is that we have articles 1 through 14, so those that are nomotechnical, that are not mature for emergency procedure. We see very significantly different views, the expert public has not spoken of it, and it is not similar to breaking as the motion suggests, in a debate that lasts, here, 2 hours and 45 minutes. Yeah, there's an article that justifies urgency, but then he just needs to be discussed. On the Committee on the Constitution, I proposed that Articles 1 to 14 be withdrawn and that only Article 15 remain, and then we would approve the prolongation of the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2202	Thank you very much, colleague Shantic. No more registered on behalf of the clubs. I'd like the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2203	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your extensive discussion, very comprehensive. Thank you for your suggestions and opinions. I believe that by the time we vote, we will be able to agree on the adoption of some amendments that I believe will improve this proposed law, i.e. amendments to the law by emergency procedure. And I ask you once again to respect the real reasons why these changes went into emergency procedure. The first and fundamental reason is that as much as possible to prevent the accumulation of cases and possible misunderstandings of jurisdiction, since one good part of the case from family matters is being moved, so simply to say, from the Centre for Social Labour to Courts. Courts are not prepared enough, in some parts we propose to postpone the application of some articles of this Law by the end of September of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2204	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I suggest we move on to the next item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2205	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Denunciation Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 15. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the following conclusion, there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the feedback of Article 15 of this Act. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 88 votes in favour, 12 against and 28 abstentions, this conclusion is reached. Amendments to this proposal, the final draft of the law have been submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, by the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. Please make a statement to the Proposer on the amendments. First, the amendments to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2206	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2207	Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2208	Yes, to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2209	The government accepts. I'm writing. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2210	I ask the representatives of the HDZ Club to withdraw this amendment. In fact, we are aware of this problem of determining the ministry's jurisdiction but since the formation of the ministry has not yet been completed, therefore, there is still this job ahead of us that will soon be completed. And then, of course, the urgency is that the jurisdiction over the implementation of the Family Law is in the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity. I suggest we wait for that reshuffle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2211	Okay. Mrs. Maria Byte on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2212	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the intention of the Croatian Democratic Community Club's representative was just to point out the need for coordination but, given the reasons of Ms. Minister, let's withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2213	Thank you. Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2214	It's on article one, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2215	Yes, to Article 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2216	Mr. President, the government cannot accept this amendment because the existence of an extramarital community is not registered, so it would be very difficult in court to establish and prove two extramarital communities, and so the effects relate to one. Therefore, the government cannot accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2217	Thank you very much. I would like a statement from Mr Ingrid Antičević's amendment to the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2218	Mr. President, explain the refusal of this amendment that the court will not be able to determine your marriage, the two vibratory communities, how can it then determine one? If he can't do something that is, or how is it more or more the other way around? So this whole argument doesn't go with this. So it is the court's duty to determine the perseverance of your marriage community. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2219	Thank you. Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. I mean, it's not enough for most of us, obviously for this amendment. Amendment number 2 of the same Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2220	The government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2221	Explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2222	It's about the definition of the mother's concept. So we propose and remain on this proposal that the definition of mother is: "The child's mother is the woman who gave birth to him.".
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2223	Thank you. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2224	Well, only a partial explanation and even with a reluctant isn't exactly what we're looking for with the amendment. We're also looking for an amendment to the definition of mother who was also, which is also now set up. But the difference is that we're asking for this definition of mother to be a conjecture assumption rather than an inconceivable assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2225	Mr. President, the Government is behind the view exactly that motherhood must be one firm point and such a proposal as exists in the proposed amendments and additions of the Family Law is a practice mainly in most countries to which we so often call, or to which we wish to compare. So in the European Union, where we aim.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2226	I am voting on this amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in favour of this amendment? He didn't get enough votes. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? How's there another one? Okay. It's the same club as a representative of the SDP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2227	The government accepts this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2228	Am I voting on the final draft of the law? Who's in? Thank you. Against? Abstained? Thank you. I find that, with 92 votes for 34 against and 2 abstentions, it is mentioned in the text that the Proposer proposed it along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2229	I suggest we move on to the next item of the agenda. It is - The final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 17. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. You've received the motion for an act in the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of the law. I remind you that amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. This legislation was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on War Veterans. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Family, Defence and Intergeneration of Solidarity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2230	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here I am again. I believe that this debate will be shorter and that you will accept the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. On 5 January this year, at its first session, the Government amended certain articles, i.e. 2 articles of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families. However, it proved very quickly that this decision, i.e. this regulation, is not fully in line with the law. We've seen the leak. So, at that time, the government couldn't hack into the laws by regulation, and that's why we decided not to bypass the Croatian Parliament, of course, but to propose changes and additions to which you MPs in the Croatian Parliament will decide. What is the fundamental idea of these changes and additions? First of all, the articles 94 and 95 of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families are deleted because, in our court, parts of these provisions are also anti-constitutional since they are now regulated by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers and members of their families, certain rights are denied at a time or in some parts and all, while the Croatian defender is in custody or on the maintenance of the sentence for more than 6 months. We estimate that there is no constitutional basis, or constitutional basis, which would justify that users of rights acquired under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and that these rights are limited and withdrawn for the reasons just as stated in Articles 94 and 95. So, while they're in custody or in detention. And which would allow users of rights and members of their families to be placed in a more unfavourable position than other users of equal rights when they are in custody or in prison. The funds needed to implement this amendment and the additions to the Law are according to our budgets 284 thousand 820 kuna and 52 June, and we would provide for these funds in the budget for this year when it is adopted. We think that there is a particularly legitimate state reason for this law to be passed by emergency procedure and we suggest... This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[no switch]] As we have already proposed these amendments, we have added two more minor ones related to Articles 81 and 82 relating to psychosocial assistance, or better implementation of the national psychosocial assistance programme for Croatian defenders and members of their families. Otherwise, with these proposed changes, I would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that since I led the Ministry of the Family, Benefactors and intergenerational solidarity, I have introduced three telephone lines, among other things, so that Croatian defenders and members of their families can ask for relevant advice or help in the exercise of their rights. Here from the opening of these phone lines to this day will be almost 4,000 calls received, which have been processed, so people with the name and last name that have come up, who have been able to talk on these phones about their problems and whose problems, of course, are trying to solve themselves. The breakdown of these phone calls or problems that these people have been saying, that the largest number of references to the lawsuits are brought to administrative courts, so the problems related to the lawsuits are brought to the Constitutional Court, and then the difficulties in achieving the status of the Croatian War Disabled from the Homeland War, followed by housing problems, etc. But here's the biggest three problems these phone calls indicate. What is one of the biggest problems in the ministry's work is the fact that defenders are dissatisfied with the so-called system. Translations that are regulated in Articles 135 and 136 and that, in the previous translation process, approximately 37% of all processed subjects have been dealt with negatively. They all filed a complaint to the Administrative Court, on the basis of complaints that during translation they had been ensnared in their acquired rights. We at the Ministry are thinking, and we will probably suggest to the Croatian government that the translation process at this point, of course, we must carry out all possible consultations in the government, all simulations that are necessary for this but suggest that the translation process be stopped. This will mean new amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences, but we will inform you in time, of course, all this will happen until the adoption of a new Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Next week will be appointed a working group that will begin at the final establishment of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence, we announced, of course, before the elections, and that is the fact that the law of the HDZ Law is made and it can be put into practice at this moment but we decided not to do so but to create a working group that will establish a law that could last at least ten years and not change after any change of power. Therefore, the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their family will be passed we expect this year. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you for a constructive debate on these amendments, I believe that you will accept the amendments and additions to the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders and members of their families in an emergency procedure and we will vote on it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2231	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? The chairman of the War Veterans Committee, Mr. Representative Vlado Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2232	Dear Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Council for War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed the bill on amendments and the addition of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families at its first session of 28 January 2004. With the final draft law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament on 22 January 2004. The government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed the adoption of the Emergency Act, which was supported by the Committee. The provisions of Article 6 of the proposed Law provide for a return action which the applicant is in accordance with the provisions of Article 154. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament explained the unconstitutional nature of the provisions of articles 94 and 95 of the binding Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. The Committee agreed with the existence of, in particular, reasonable grounds for the return to, Article 6 A bill of law. The applicant's representative briefly explained the basic features of the proposed amendments and the addition of the laws to be considered on the different regulation of the care of Croatian wartime wartime people of the Homeland War suffering from PTSD and in deleting Articles 94 and 95 of the applicable Law and for the reasons of the questionable constitutionality of the prescribed provisions. It is a non-payment of income with the basis of the associated rights in half the amount of dependent family members if the beneficiary is in custody. It has been pointed out that the implementation of the prescribed rights does not require significant financial resources and that it will be provided from regular items of the Ministry of Family and Defence and intergenerational solidarity. In a brief discussion followed by members of the Committee, they supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the laws. It is proposed to consider, by analogous to these amendments to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, the possibility of amending and supplementing Articles 65 and 66. The Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, which provides for the same restriction in the exercise of the right to war, peace and civil war, as well as members of their families with the exception of pension rights. After the debate was held, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2233	Thank you. Does the chairman of the Legislative Committee want one? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Party Club, the right respected representative Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2234	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Madam President, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I have to say on behalf of our Club, the HSP Club after, two days ago, when the Deputy Prime Minister said that a working committee is now appointed, a task force for the draft law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and that this law will be drafted and sent to the procedure during this year, has called a huge number of children of dead defenders, Croatian wartime disabled and Croatian defenders themselves, protesting and asking what is this about? First of all, they asked this because the Croatian Party of Rights, meaning the HSP Club in the previous meeting of the Parliament, was referred to the procedure of the new Bill on the Rights of Croatian Defences from the Homeland War and members of their families who passed the first reading. This is what we mentioned to our colleagues from HDZ, so they already have the basis for the law, the bill on which the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament, and we expected it to be, and it was also said, now the vice president said that there was this law that HDZ made. So I don't think you should wait that long. If you have our law that we are giving you because we want to finally resolve this issue of restoring dignity to Croatian defenders and interrupting all of this which they have been exposed to lately and it has come to pass that they have lost the most important thing a man can lose, which is dignity. We always stick to our words, so we also said in the government's programme that in this part of the first hundred days, we would give the government the opportunity to come out and prepare it ourselves, but if that's how long it's been going to be, we'll come up with the final proposal right after Easter, but I think there's a chance that we can do it together in this period. First of all, we expected it to be part of a state budget that is one of the fundamental fundamentals. So we don't think it can last that long and there's a chance to get rid of it quickly. I must immediately note here that the reputation of the Croatian Government should be taken into account because of the fact, you have made the law, the final proposal which has 7 articles, together with the 7th entry into force, and immediately after 3 days the Government sends 3 amendments means that the actual half of the law changes. It should be guided about the dignity and reputation of the Croatian government and that such regulations are being prepared not to happen because it is not right for me. Why do I say that? I am saying because of this fact that it is also worth the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families brought by emergency procedure and I can say on behalf of the Club what we have estimated to be the worst law the Croatian Parliament has ever passed. One of the worst laws that the Croatian Parliament has ever passed and legally if it, and we have analysed it, we think that many could doctorate, write doctoral dissertations about how anti-constitutional it is, how unstimulated it is and how essentially it was, not to say the hard words, semi-informed not to say the deceived Croatian Parliament because it said that in the new meanings it is summed up that the fundamental purpose of the Law is to reduce the funds because the state has economic problems and the other according to the principle of justice. And what happened? That's only possible in Guns' book, probably. The first thing that happened was that it meant in the official bill that it would cost the state 2 billion and 400 million kuna or something less. And look at the wonders in 2002, the Ministry has 2 billion and 700. In 2003, there are 2 billion and 800, but it is not all because, according to the government's decision, the Ministry also received funds from the sale of apartments and the payment of housing loans. So there's someone being deceived. I don't know what my colleague Leko would say now, and he always likes it on the Legislative Committee, so we had a calculation and that calculation is essentially incorrect. So I could tell you by simulation, but I could say that really, we made on behalf of the club probably another day simulating what damage was done. Let's just take an example of 100% first group disabled, shall we? If the law were to be implemented literally, that variant would happen so that the 100% disability of the first group, which does not have a day of effective employment, would be left without pension, without pension. You know why? Because the law is worthy of reference, what? It refers to a regulation on pension insurance of military personnel, officials in the MUP and the enforcement of sanctions, which refers to general rules in pension insurance, and is said, in such cases, to the loss of general working capacity for a person up to 30 years in order to retire, it must have an effective standing for one year. The boys who were young, who defended this country, have only a special internship, have no working performance, so they don't have an effective internship. I mean, nobody in the Croatian Parliament probably wanted to bring that. Now what happened next, Mrs. Kosorica said the situation she found, it's... It's a situation. and that is why we were thinking in Croatia about the right to make it the most legally valid law to make it invalid, this would be the legal most correct because of the counter-constitution of many provisions, because of the lack of simulation and everything else. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] But we see that there's a problem about it, and now the ministry itself needs to make a team and all that to do that, which is why we gave it up. Because if something were to come out legally nothing, then a certain number of provisions must be regulated which with those variations someone got an apartment, got a housing loan, achieved that right, and that is a generally undeniable fact, he left the statute. So, normally and in this way, we want to help the new government constructively. I'm just going to tell you about the example of five, six sights to prove what the condition is. Dr. Turic and I know, Janju... The mother of the proud death of two Croatian knights. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] She doesn't even receive lipe today, she has a final and rightful second-degree solution, only once stopped winning. It's a disastrously mild thing to say. And this poor woman spoke unto all, neither is he that will receive, nor heareth, nor heareth. I mean, I don't know what more you could say about it. Or this part, the other day and a colleague of the Krapljanin and I received at least 10 defenders. Now take the next one, the volunteer of the Homeland War from Novska, can't make a pension. You know why? The law introduced a confirmation of the circumstances of the victims, who was a participant of the Homeland War, the Croatian defender from the Homeland War knew that during those first moments the journals and units could not be conducted officially, but that it was normally resolved, it was known that he was a Croatian defender, sufficient medical documentation was necessary to immediately wound him to treat himself. Therefore, such injustices are done. And what was going on. And we now, this part we welcome, which changes. But we appeal to an even greater injustice and counter-constitution that was done to Croatian defenders themselves from the Homeland War and members of their families, which is that this process of translation, what is your translation? – Translation is your second term for revision. It is an integral part of our law, the Croatian Party of the Rights of our Club, that is, as far as I've heard from both HDZ and HSS, we have to break it down, it's a bigger situation of violations of rights acquired, than this part and a larger number, a far greater number of are covered. Because just look at the fact, the government's commission and this other part of what's been done, look out. Listen, says more than 70% of the solution of this commission and the ministry, the Administrative Court has annulled. What would a fellow Turkish say about a doctor who has 80% of patients dying? What would they say about the judge whom the Court of Appeal overturns 70% of the sentence? So we can't really let that happen anymore. and therefore the Croatian Party of Rights, the Club has tabled an amendment requiring that all of these translation provisions be deleted. It must be possible for the ministry to look at the situation, to break up this whole part. Because you know what's been going on, what I have to say here publicly, during the election campaign, our members of the branch presidents have been invited to translate. And that's what I heard as part of the HDZ, it really has to be cut off. Therefore, if it is to prevent counter-constitution, if something is to be done immediately, it means an important step in protecting, restoring dignity, it is the first part to put an end to this translation together. Therefore, I call on both the government and all respected colleagues to support us, as Croatian defenders see us, this is exactly what we expect. Look, as many audits as they've been through, they don't even know it themselves, every day they're invited, they're re-audited. A request has been filed by the minister, waiting 12 months to be called to the commission. When he calls, then he waits months to bring the first solution at all. I mean, we can't tolerate this here in the Croatian Parliament anymore. Now that we're on this subject. So this is the minimum we can do at this point, given the urgency of the procedure. Another important thing that is happening is for our Croatian defenders who unfortunately have been declared, left without human rights being called before the prosecution bodies, meaning the UN tribunal's investigation procedure either as a witness, whether as a suspect, accused or as an informative conversation. They are in such a situation, and these are our friends, our comrades, we are their mandatory help, no one systematically helps them to prepare themselves for all these conversations depends on what things are about. You know why? – they demand one minimum minimum to obtain that documentation received by The Hague prosecutors. So if they could at least get that file received by The Hague prosecutor's office, they can't get it. Look what's going on. They all, that whole paperwork was scattered in various places. The defence system is within your former SIS or the military police, or it's in the archives of military or even in the main headquarters. One part was in the former SIS, one part ended up in the Office of the President of the Republic, the third part is today in... The fourth part is in the criminal section of the Ministry of the Interior. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's do one minute, appeal and ask the government and support here, put government in charge, I think they'd want us to do it so we don't put them in charge, but here we go to help them... establish a professional commission within 30 days, a team to provide information and legal assistance to them, information and legal assistance. [[no switch]] Guys won't name people. They came, they're on the verge of despair. You know what happened to them? Look, as they came, there was a variant that the boys found out through the public information funds that they were invited to the investigators or to an informative conversation or something else. We can't really let that happen anymore. They get the documentation they're looking for. I can't get it like it's gone and they know that that file exists and then you finally know what the Hague prosecutor's office is giving them. So let us be reasonable, help because we protect the dignity of the Homeland War in this way. Let's help these people. Look, they on the tram say, they get into the tram, and one part knows some general, I won't name, there's no need to name, I'd say hello, the other part looks at me dark because it turns out, I don't now have the greatst of human rights because as soon as I'm told that I'm being called by one part of me normally, the other part looks at me suspiciously and I can't get what I know exists. Or get me into a room somewhere, there's a huge 15-20 stand that's right there for you, so take it. So let's make at least one minimum to help people, to prepare, to provide the necessary and legal assistance from lawyers. They're now hiring lawyers all sorts of friendly grounds. Normally, I can't pay and the lawyers have their own obligation again, watch out for him alive, we all know what it means, he lives off that law firm. So these are the two minimum things that mean further constructive work and cooperation we ask for to be accepted and in this way we make one important step in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2235	Thank you. Before I can correct the incorrect allegations, colleagues and colleagues on this agenda, there are two other clubs, six MPs. We still have some agenda points as you know. I appeal to MPs and MPs if today and today we should end up focusing a little more economically on the time in the debates to finish as soon as possible. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is Honorable Representative Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2236	Thank you, Mr. President. A lot of things incorrect is said, but I'll try to count only the most important ones. It has been said that the applicable law has been passed by emergency procedure. Those who were in the Parliament know it was brought in a regular procedure. Secondly, the law's objective here was to reduce the ministry's budget position from 2 billion 400 to 2 billion and 800. The figures are correct, but anyone who knows the problem of the functioning of the care system for Croatian defenders knows the reason and the reason is that they were paid out of the state budget in part before their pensions and in part from the pension fund to be paid out of the Republic of Croatia's budget for the last years. Therefore, the item in the ministry and the total amount of funds were higher. It's incorrect, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2237	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2238	Excuse me. It's incorrect that a 100% disabled person without a day's internship loses his pension. It is absolutely incorrect and incorrect, and it is partly true that 70% of the solution to fall in administrative court is true. The solutions that he signed are falling...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2239	Thank you very much, colleague Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2240	... former assistant minister of Croatian defence here...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2241	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, you have your word. Otherwise, we should keep working without a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2242	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Minister, Mr. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity! We have before us a proposal to amend the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. But before that, it may be necessary to remind the Croatian public of what happened a month ago, and that is to remember the pre-election campaign and the promises that came from the Croatian Democratic Community. Four were fundamental, maybe more, and that's about VAT, paying off debt to pensioners, and maternity benefits. These two days with some legal proposals we could also see what these promises look like and now on this fourth fundamental promise to Croatian defenders we see perhaps more clearly that all these were really just promises. Because, let us also remind this House, there was often a debate on the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders which I can agree to be bad but the previous one was in a legal sense absolutely illiterate and therefore disastrously bad. So it is said that this new law, as well as some other government actions, including co-operation with the International Court in The Hague, criminalises the Homeland War, offends Croatian defenders, brings them to a socially endangered category of people, etc. However, the government has changed. We expected a new policy, a turn in terms of that motto, to start Croatia. And what did we get? And for getting Croatian defenders to whom so many are often called. They received the removal of the Croatian Ministry of Defence from the Homeland War. And my view was that it doesn't matter what the institution calls it, it's important that it works to professionally carry out what the law requires. But not only has the ministry been abolished, but it is from this ministry, it is called the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the prefix of Croatia has been expelled, so they are no longer Croatian defenders but they are only defenders. But we know our practice for the past 13, 14 years, all living and inanimately in our area we called it the Croatians. So we had Croatian waters, Croatian forests, Croatian roads, and even the Dinamo football club because of the desire of a man renamed to Croatia. And then all of a sudden when it comes to people who have defended this country from the name of the institution, "Croatian" prefix is cast out. Whether it is conscious or not consciously done, I don't know, but an oversight has been made that may be saying that these Croatian defenders may not be so important to some. The next step was the appointment of leaders in the ministry. And while in these four years we've reduced the operation of the cold-drive ministry by 5 or 6 times for the leaders, the assistants, the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2243	My colleague Pančić, excuse me, I ask that you be on the subject, this is an amendment to the law on the rights of Croatian defenders and not a debate on the establishment of state administration and central administrative bodies. So please stick to the debate on the subject. And the subject is very simple and clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2244	Mr. President, I've been here as a representative of the government for four years, and when the law on the rights of Croatian defenders was spoken of, I listened to everything. I've been sitting here for three days, discussing some other laws, and I've listened to everything. Not only from the opposition but from the ruling party's ranks. And now that I have something to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2245	Well, here you go. Just talk about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2246	So I'm talking about the subject and the subject is in the Law on the rights of the Croatian defender.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2247	Because someone's appointed headmaster in some ministry and who's the whole other thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2248	So it's quite another thing when I ask her how someone who needs to implement family policy and protection policy of Croatian defenders has, in time, obtained microwave ovens for 16 thousand kunas according to the state audit. The other day I was convinced that the price was about 900 kuna, a wheelchair for some 16 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2249	My colleague Pančić, please be kind, well, both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public are very well informed that these two State Secretarys are immediately withdrawn when it is known that the procedure is being conducted, but this dear colleague has really no.../ But that was my next line. Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2250	Here, and my next line was, these people were replaced but they still because of the seven days they were at work still getting paid.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2251	My colleague, please, for the last time, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2252	And Croatian defenders whose name is spoken of are talking about the 100 or 200 kuna whether we will increase them to 150 or 250 while someone will continue to receive 10 thousand kunas of wages for which he does not deserve.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2253	My colleague I will be forced to ask you to really stick to the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2254	Okay. Okay. So, all the time, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I'm sticking to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2255	I mean, it's clear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2256	So it was promised for the first session of the Croatian Parliament to pass a new Law on the rights of Croatian defenders, all criticisms I accept about the law, we will not discuss it but it has proved that there is no law. It is now said that a special task force will be formed that will propose somewhere within a year a new law. Therefore, cosmetic changes follow. Because the fact is that 500 million kunas or 600 million kunas would be the minimum of these changes that would be gone. And there may not be a reason why the coalition agreement with the SDSS predicts the return of an institution of housing rights that the former government was not even thinking of accepting it. And the international community has also given up. But there's a good price for everything, I won't explain it, I leave it to be explained by the Croatian government. And that's why the tactics that have been taken is that every month or two days go with some cosmetic changes. It's good that you gave up the regulation that was brought in two or three weeks ago, but it turns out that this regulation was brought in on speed, that it's against the law, and that's why we're here today with this bill of law. In particular, I hope that Mr. President of the Parliament will be pleased that we are moving on to the essence of the matter even though what is said has and what a great connection to the problem. So, believe it or not, it's all true. Articles 94 and 95 where they speak of Croatian defenders who have been sentenced to the maintenance of prison sentences for more than 6 months where their disability payments and others are rightly suspended. Croatian Prime Minister at the TV rally I mean 10 years old in Split to establish or something like that of the Croatian Democratic Union, I am not apologizing 14th ere I accept the correction. He quoted me as saying it was an opportunity – I was bitten by the heart when I saw the provision of the article in the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences where Croatian defenders were suspending those rights. Probably his associates because the prime minister doesn't really need to know these legal provisions didn't tell him that the legal provision was prescribed from the 1992 law on the protection of military and civilian victims of war when it seemed to me to be HDZ. And it's probably been prescribed from the old law of the former SFRY. So that provision applies to these premises for 50 years, I will not enter whether justified or unjust. But now with this bill, which I won't determine whether it's good or not, there are now other categories of people left in an unequal position, people with disabilities, people with disabilities from the Homeland War, people with disabilities, or people with disabilities from other wars. Because the legal provision of the existing 92th law remains in force. I think Articles 65 and 66. And I think on the topical clock that one question was MP Škulić's colleague and I mean fellow Caine about equalising the rights of all categories of people with disabilities. Although I am for equating rights but the amount of the disabled from the last war of the Homeland War must be greater, because that is the case in other countries. So here it's said that it's going to be fixed and that it's all taken care of. Well, then, I'd ask lawmakers to consider that part of the law on the protection of military and civilian victims of war. The future time expires only with a few sentences around these changes around PTSD which are actually even more cosmetical. We saw the bill after Mr Kovacevic said there was an amendment that was not half the law. Which shows that there are wandering at work, and unknown to the large extent of the functioning of the system. And the more in practice the psychosocial assistance centres applied what is now written all the time. Not in the last four years, but in the last seven or eight years. So all in all, there is one change in cosmetic nature, and therefore because of the way the SDP advocate club is proposed, it cannot accept it in this way. Here again, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I apologize if I have jumped out of the envisaged framework for moments, although my belief is that this was entirely in line with the given theme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2257	Thank you very much, Mr. Pancic. I accept your apology. I also appeal to colleagues who have raised numerous corrections of incorrect allegations to reason, their right to be clearly denied. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2258	Mr President, the Rules of Procedure have been injured in Article 210 where the speaker is said to be able to speak only about the subject under the established agenda. Unfortunately, we had opportunities to listen only to excuses for the work of the former minister, and in that sense I believe that the article was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2259	Correction of the incorrect quote Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2260	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2261	Fran Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2262	I'm just saying we should introduce a new record, correcting an incorrect speech, in a case like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2263	Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2264	So the correction of the inaccuracy of fellow Pancic. Namely, counterpart Pancic, the Administrative Court has given the official basis for the audit carried out by your former deputy Vdovic that 70% has been annulled. That's what I was talking about. And in this part of me, when I signed it, it wasn't even 10% cancelled. But we can ask the Court of Justice to solve this easily. Let's not misinformed the public. Let's be...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2265	Thank you. Katarina Fuchek.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2266	Correction of the incorrect allegation in the sense that Croatian defenders in the name of the ministry lost the prefix of Croatia. They're not. Since all the ministries are Croatian, so in keeping in the intensities, or in the intention you have to vote. The Ministry of Croatian Defence, Croatian Families, and Croatian Intergenerational Solidarity, which is not necessary in any case because all ministries deal with Croatian issues, Croatian areas, and not for example. Austrian or Hungarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2267	Thank you. Representative Niko Rebic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2268	Mr. President, if Mladen Delic were here, he would say, "My people, is it possible?" that the man coworker Pancic who was tasked with his party because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2269	Dear Rebić, correcting the incorrect quote please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2270	I picked up the line based on the exposure...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2271	There's no replica to the president on behalf of the club when it's represented there's no replica, you know. There's no replica. Let's learn. Pero Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2272	Mr. President, Agent Pancic, Mr. Pancic said we don't have the law. And we don't have the law until we get through the procedure. But I was a participant in making that law and we're going to return...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2273	Comrade Mlinarić, I ask you to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2274	By this law we will restore all rights taken away from all Croatian defenders and their families.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2275	Thank you very much. Let's limit ourselves to correction, to the Institute of Correction. Representative Mato Stimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2276	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2277	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives' Club. Please give me the signs to see. Then tell me about God. I can't... /The speaker's off/...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2278	Yes, I apologize, Mr. President. I, as always, applied in time for a reaction on behalf of the government. So, in order not to misinformation of the Croatian public, I have a few things to say. As for the findings of Mr Pancic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP club, that the promise to Croatian defenders is only a promise. That's not true. It's a lie. We have announced that we will restore dignity to Croatian defenders and members of their families and that we will prepare a new law. The new law will be prepared I said during this year. The exact time I can't determine. And as for restoring dignity, I think we're quite clear here. So, to restore dignity and to one Mr. Darka Bestek who I think symbolizes with that prosthetic and return of that prosthetic, all the torment and misery and the disabled and other defenders. I don't think I have to remind myself of the fact that over the past years, defenders have been called "principlers", that many have acquired -- they're quotes, but I'm not going to say whose not to burden this set -- means that disability has been acquired by travelling under "Peace roofs" or leaving "Peace roofs", and then a statement that they've been fighting for benefits, and then a statement that there's no such thing as HVIDR, therefore, which brings together Croatian wartime disableds from the Homeland War, and no lip from the state budget. It is known that the state budget is the budget of all of us, all of us taxpayers, and that only the Parliament can decide which one is missing from the state budget, and certainly not an individual, etc., etc. That's what we were talking about in the election campaign, and that's what we're thinking of doing. So the law wasn't a hoax. The law is a reality and we will propose that the representative of the Croatian Parliament be in the Committee so that he can control the phase of the law. As far as party law is concerned, I have already said we have prepared the law in Croatia for the democratic community, but as such we cannot, without consultations and associations and the general public, give it to the Croatian Parliament. As regards support for the development of both the ongoing and the pace of lawmaking, I received support from the Association of Homeland War, HVIDR and the Association of Widows, and two associations that are not within the co-ordination at the joint meeting. The return of dignity to Croatian defenders of course implies that, for example, with the amendments to these two articles, i.e. the erasure of the 94th and 95th laws that we keep unconstitutional, which the honourable representative has not said a word about. We think it should be possible, for example, for the father to have seven children, or those seven children, and I am talking about a specific case that they get which kuna and which one from the state budget because they are their rights and simply cannot survive without those rights. And we also think it is inadmissible in the future to seek out exactly the defenders to whom the provisions of Articles 94 and 95 applied to obtaining interpretation from the ministry, I quote: "The legislator has laid down another criminal measure for the perpetrator of the criminal offence, therefore for the Croatian defender, which is that he does not consume the prescribed rights of the law while he is in prison for more than 6 months." We think, we are on the stand convinced that double punishment cannot be anticipated for anyone, and then neither for the Croatian defender. Penalty for criminal offences is prescribed in the Penal Code. There can be no additional penalties in the law like this one that's lex specialis. And finally, for this reason, I would like to point out once again that this cannot possibly be these proposed changes, changes in cosmetic nature as the esteemed colleague said. These are not changes in cosmetic nature, but changes that will allow Croatian defenders to be further punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2279	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected colleague, Ivica Pancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2280	Mrs. Vice President spoke of SDP's views, so she quoted different quotes, so it turns out that it was either me or someone from the SDP. But I do know a quote about "Peace roofs." I think you must address the President of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2281	Was that a correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2282	Well, yeah, because different quotes have been made that come from the ranks of the SDP. So in this... /Technical interference. /... something incorrect and it can be supported by a list of newspapers. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2283	On behalf of the HDZ representative club, respected representative Josip Djakic. And just before the meeting, the selection, appointment and administrative affairs committee was scheduled for the president in room 133 at 15.00 hours. Selection, appointments and administrative work, room 133 at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2284	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The Croatian Democratic Community club unreservedly supports the proposal of the legislator of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the Final Proposal of the Law and amendments addressed. Standing behind this proposal, we are correcting the unconstitutional withdrawal of rights to Croatian defenders and members of their families. Rights acquired which are not allowed and cannot be taken away for reasons that the Croatian defender from the Homeland War is in custody and maintains the sentence of imprisonment for more than six months. It is obvious that by applying Articles 94 and 95 unwarrantedly, both Croatian defenders and disabled people of the Homeland War are being punished twice, but worse still is the members of their family who do not deserve it. Therefore, in a series of injustices committed against the most deserved populations of Croatian citizens, the creator of the Croatian homeland, the knights who have defended the attacked Homeland, and have won freedom in the occupied areas of the Croatian state, we believe that these changes and additions of the laws make the first shifts in solving the disreputed, humiliated and forgotten, and most responsible for today's existence, Croatia and the peaceful dream of all its citizens. These amendments and additions to the law are only urgent measures that are currently possible until a new law is drawn up and agreed that should be valid permanently, which without doubt and ambiguous interpretations would be in service of the rights of Croatian defenders and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2285	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS Club, DC respected House Vice-President Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, I will indeed respond to the call to say only the most important thing about this subject, which is that the HSLS and DC club will support this law. We are truly sorry that we constantly have a law that is actually causing unnecessary politicisation in this House, and although it is the third term, I really do not remember that not one of these has been discussed without unnecessary party colors, and it is obvious that there is a law before us that the former minister says is bad, with the previous saying being even worse and this clearly needs to be changed. We support this change for the reason that this law really is the same for everyone or for everyone to be equal to the law, because perhaps the simplest way to explain to the citizens is that, in fact, according to the law in this form in which it exists now, if one of us were found in custody, it would be difficult to imagine or one of the other citizens and defenders, the only defenders would be left without that material. Therefore, the aim of this law is to make us all equal before the law, and therefore the HSLS and DC club supports this amendment to the law, especially the part that expresses a very specific, more concrete concern than post-traumatic ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2287	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. Now we're going to an individual debate. First is Honorable Representative Zeljko Kurtov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2288	Your Honor, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister. I speak in front of HNS. The HNS Club will support this amendment of the law, because on the Committee of Croatian Veterans we unanimously supported this amendment with one vote. We in the Croatian Parliament, especially Croatian defenders, should be very sensitive and responsible for the injustices, however they were done, i.e. By chance or by not finding out who the proposer is trying to correct, without bringing some other group into an unequal position. We here need to understand that we don't put defenders in the same group and everything under the same hat. So when we talk about the disabled defenders that we know exactly that we are talking about this group of Croatian defenders. Defendors of persons with disabilities should be covered by the best and most effective treatment as well as the advice of their families. The funds that will settle down to this small, but socially endangered group, I mean the ones that were cut off while they were in prison, I think we'll correct the injustice that was done to them. However, I must point out here that my proposal on the defence problem in the matter of the employment, I have received the assurance of the members of the government that we will fix this in the next, as soon as possible. I am sincerely asking you, Madam Minister, on behalf of the defenders, that this Law on the Work of Article 36 on the double duration of the job to correct it, because defenders who were not lucky to be employed before the war means they are now working, they are not involved in any day of more vacations, that they have 100 kunas of higher salary, etc. I think there's a large group of defenders in there that's been a lot cut off and I thank you in advance, and I think we're going to propose an amendment to that law in front of the CNS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2289	Thanks, buddy. Dear Representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2290	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So, having nothing personal against what was already brought into the law in 1992, it is now believed that it has damaged the defenders, to correct it, to amend it. I would just like to point out and appeal to you Deputy Prime Ministers, also to another fact where an injustice has been committed against the people who have died, obviously as defenders, and unfortunately they have not gained the status of defenders. And that, to put it that way, is not uniform everywhere in Croatia, in some other environments they are. It is two sailors of Jadrolinia who died on the ferry “Vladimir Nazor” in Split's port when in a artillery attack from then-ships, the then-JNA that left Split, carried out the attack. They died unfortunately, they never exercised those rights. It's about the late Maras Dink and the late Kalapić Juri. So, two sailors from the ferry “Vladimir Nazor”. If we know that just those ships, that civilian fleet was then used to deliver weapons, other things, as I know, the fact is that in some other cities, I wouldn't now indicate, where there were also victims by, therefore, where the sailors gave their lives on ferrys or similar ships exactly to Jadrolinia where they were granted that status. In Split, unfortunately, that didn't happen, so we wouldn't go in there for what it was like. At that time they were simply not included in the list of certain units, etc. Here, I appeal to you to try to do everything in order to be, so that their victim would be recognized as a defense victim, more than their children have been brought into a strange situation, let's say, it's about two children. Once it was admitted, it wasn't, etc., that I wasn't going into details. Here, my appeal is, using the opportunity to talk about this subject, to point to that, and I will personally give you all the information and we can get it easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2291	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mato Raven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2292	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Including this debate, I would be more pleased if we had received on the bench a proposal for a new law on Croatian defenders and members of their families, as was promised in the pre-election campaign, both as well as the vice president and in the opening statement here. It is certain that the debate would be of a better quality and that, as it is heard from this pay phone, we would correct one of the worst laws that has been passed during the past time period in the Croatian Parliament. But what's there is. We have before us amendments and additions to the law. Obviously, the pre-election promise was only one in a series of pre-election promises, or perhaps some other reasons that were also required that we do not get a complete law. I'm holding, one of the possible reasons is that it's too short a time from these 30 days that the government is formed and of course it's too short a time period for such a significant law to be prepared. Well, I also estimate that this is only one in a series of steps, first in a series of steps and only proof of the goodwill of the ruling team, so to speak. Or, rather, only the first fire department. And today's debate on the amendment and addition of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their family is undoubtedly evidence that only necessary cosmetic changes have been made. That this matter is indeed complex and universally manifested in fact, and that is what my predecessors said, that our government has understood the complexity of this law, under quotes, strayed, in a more free expression of the word, and within just a week has referred to the procedure of the Proposed Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers from the Homeland War and members of their families with the Final Proposal of the Law and on 22 January of this year. And only a week later, on January 29th this year, the amendments to the proposed law. The initial explanation of these amendments and the addition of the Law states that the changes needed to specify the actions and procedures that need to be taken to ensure that Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War, who recognised post-traumatic stress disorder status, would have had instead of special ones, I quote: “adequate care” to be taken to help this category of Croatian wartime wartime people with disabilities with maximum and above all timely help. Realising that these changes, despite a good wish, did not answer the fundamental question that led to amendments and additions to the Law, and that even after this amendment and supplementation, it is not clear who is leading, who is updating the records, on the basis of which the data and who provides and gives adequate care, to the proposed amendments and corrects the same. Of course, the proposed amendment has somewhat improved the effects, but I, like my colleague Pancic, would say only in a legislative sense. Of a relatively small group from this entire group, therefore, it is the Croatian wartime wartime disabled law now the amendments include the entire group of Croatian defenders, and the amendment of Article 82 self-legislatively humanises the cooperation of members of the centre for psychosocial assistance with all victims of the Homeland War and members of their family... as originally proposed by the Croatian Military Persons and their families, since this change and the law of the imperial bureaucratic relationship are being turned into a co-operational or partner relationship, primarily driven by the sick and members of their families. [[no switch]] As far as I know, this is the only thing I'm stressing is the legislative correction of certain irregularities and in practice this approach has been all this time. The proposed amendments and additions shall be deleted in Articles 94 and 95. The law remains unclear, however, as it is possible that the existing provision of the Law, which the Proposer claims is anti-constitutional, exists for many years, because I keep it very well known to all of us that the said Law is the "brother of the Twin" of the Law, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, was published in National No. 108 of 96. That is why it would be directed to hear before we decide to make a final decision an additional clarification of the applicant. I also believe that it is the fundamental task of all of us here to take care of the equality of all citizens before the Law, so I ask the promoter what will happen to Articles 65 and 66. The Law on Military and Civil War Victims, which remains in force and which was passed in this House in 1992. No matter what solution I made personally as a Croatian defender, I look forward to the knowledge that defenders are responsible people and that very few Croatian wartime wartime people, i.e. Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, who are under those legal sanctions, I mean Articles 94 and 95, so we heard and negligible financial resources are about 285 thousand kunas if I am not mistaken, which of course will not be if this law is adopted will not be a great burden for the state budget. In the end, it is certain that the matter of this Law is very complex, that it covers a wide range of life problems for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and that the regulation of the right and regulation of conditions and procedures for achieving them should be approached very studioly without improvisation and very responsible. Satisfying primary content, not form. Of course, by respecting all that has been seen as a disadvantage through the application of this law in the past period of time. I am sure that I will share the satisfaction of all of you respected colleagues and colleagues here in the Croatian Parliament, I am sure that the citizens of Croatia will, in particular, be fully satisfied when we pass a new law, and I hope that they will really be by the end of the year. A law that will primarily protect Croatian defenders and members of their families, the Law that will eliminate all... shortcomings and possible illogicalities, and that will solve the biggest democratic achievements of problems for all of us very important and important groups. If it is to be tried according to the announcements, it is to expect that we will have a number of discussions about the future law, and I want, as I am sure, all colleagues and colleagues from the SDP Club to contribute that it has a long-term effect and effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2293	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Željko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2294	Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the correction of an incorrect quote refers to the claim that these are only necessary cosmetic changes. According to the Law on Croatian Defences, if the defender would do something that would be subject to criminal prosecution, so his family would suffer as well. Not only did we not give benefits to the Croatian defenders but we put them in a position of subjugation compared to those of non-defense citizens. And I believe that these are fundamental changes and that is the correcting of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2295	Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic. Wait a minute. There's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2296	My colleague corrects my opinion, I still think, and I claim that these are really cosmetic changes, and we will eventually see what life will bring. This Regulation shall enter
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2297	Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2298	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The care of Croatian defenders deserves certainly the greatest attention, and the fact that in the past the rights of Croatian defenders and especially their care but also medical and professional assistance were very much said. It seemed all legal, administrative, financial, but I would point out that the following did not seem enough in a professional and professional sense in order for the level and aid to really correspond to that level that defenders generally in the world, especially those with post-traumatic war syndrome, have. It is alarming that at the beginning of the 21st century we are trying to solve some important problems with PTSD syndrome with various questionnaires that burden these people, questionnaires that are neither space nor time nor technology. And that's why such concepts don't give and can't produce results. I would take the opportunity to point out this: I recently spoke to a prominent doctor from “Walter Read” who deals with the treatment of war veterans who suffer from PTSD syndrome. The results, Mr. President of these statistics in the world, warn us and show that in the treatment of these patients can be done far more than we have done. I'll just mention some facts. American military war veterans, especially those from Vietnam using these new technologies, have been treated with high levels of success, almost 60%. Some recent statistics related to victims who have suffered a disaster at the World Trade Center are very warning. The application of these technologies resulted from 80 to 90%. Therefore, Mr. President, I believe that the future in this ministry will be far more worrying about making sure that modern medical technologies that offer solutions are applied unlike what we unfortunately had in the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2299	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Pearl Perman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2300	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, it is certainly commendable that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War are concerned and that they want to be given the proper status, but when we talk about them at the same time, I cannot help but remember at the same time our fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers today, the World War II anti-fascists who, given their late age, have great problems in achieving and the minimum needs in health care, which they are currently and most in need of, and that I am not talking about other rights in terms of monetary income and moral satisfaction for their contribution to today's Croatian state without which defenders in the Homeland War would not actually have any reason to fight because it would not be. I'd have a few objections and questions about this bill. According to the government's amendments today, some have been given last night, some today, in chapter 8, in which the current law speaks of care for Croatian wartime wartime people from the Homeland War who have suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD, would now include psychosomatic, psychosocial care for Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. I ask, what does it include and what kind of help is actually meant by psychosocial care, and how will it determine which defenders and members of their families she refers to and who she is, and who she really needs if all the defenders are generalized? Furthermore, if Articles 4 and 5 of this proposal abolished Articles 94 and 95 of the current Law on the refusal of the right to part of the monetary income of those defenders who are in custody or in prison would return to them, they would be returned to the rights of monetary incomes that are actually intended, which in prison, which they in prison have free of charge. For example, I am talking about an extra for the care of another person, an orthopaedic allowance, care and assistance services, money rights for the unemployed, and so on, which are covered by Article 19 of the applicable law. I also wonder who, how and in such cases, will be taken into account in the use of these benefits or rights during the maintenance of the prison sentence? Would it not be more useful for these funds, however small or large, to be directed to some other categories of social assistance users they really need? As for the reasons of this proposal, I wonder what is this argument that Articles 94 and 95 are deleted? Well, that's what it says in the text of the law itself. Why repeat it in an explanation but at first do not give an explanation why these articles are deleted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2301	I thank, and respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2302	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues, in any case, the Homeland War is the foundation of the Croatian state and society and those who contributed deserve the highest level of protection and care. Since the moss is about younger people, I think, relatively younger, that the concern that MP Cosic was talking about may even be more important than the financial assistance they receive and, of course, I support the introduction of the most modern measures of medical, social and other concern. There have been talks about whether the return of these certain rights to defenders who are in prison or detention is appropriate for reasons because other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when they find themselves in a similar situation, have their pension and some of their other incomes, which is true and to this extent I support the return of those rights that have been deleted, but I do suggest that, in view of what was said, promote whether it is a whole, it is a whole spectrum of rights because it seems to me, reading the original text then deleted provisions that also have some rights of financial nature that do not belong to or are not related to the situation, or not fit for a stay in prison. I mean... There's no overlapping... for such one giving rights that wouldn't belong... As soon as the public may unwarrantedly throw a certain one, I'd say even the Stigm on the entire defense population, but I don't think there's really room for that. and as I said, if the Homeland War is the first major pillar of the Croatian state. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The second large pillar, and this is seen from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the Antifascist fight and I think it is an immensely important thing for this home, that the rights that Croatian defenders have to give to both fathers and grandfathers as already said what their contribution to the Croatian state has given... An anti-fascist fight. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not about large financial resources, it's about a generation that's on its way away and unfortunately it's already gone, and it's such an act, it seems primarily symbolic to me, and it should certainly be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2303	Thank you. I'm asking the Secretary of State, Tomislav Ivic, at the Ministry, to give a final review. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I thank you for the debate on the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers. and I can say in the introduction that it was not really intended to make cosmetic changes in that law, but what is obvious that it is not in accordance with the rights of other citizens in the Republic of Croatia can not limit in this respect the rights and Croatian defenders. For this reason, we have also proposed amendments to Articles 94 and 95. I must also say that there was no pre-election promise that a new Law on Croatian defenders would be found before this House. However, it was illusory to expect it to be finished within a month, especially as the Ministry of Family, Defence and intergenerational solidarity of the team. But I, from this place on behalf of the Vice-President and Minister, guarantee and I promise that from next week, intensive work will begin to be made on the creation of a new legal text and a new law, and that he will hopefully find himself soon at a session of the Parliament. Also after detailed analyses, we will come out as a ministry and with a view to this controversial translation, because at this point it is a really big problem, and it can also be a big problem in financial terms and a commitment to the state budget. And let me just say a few more words with the government's amendments are going for the simple reason that after consulting the defense associations, we wanted to extend these rights, so not only are they Croatian defenders, but also members of their families and other victims. And I can also say that these articles of both 65 and 66 will certainly be discussed at the government meeting. The law on the protection of military and civilian invalids of war. Here I thank you again for the debate, and I hope the Parliament will support these proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2305	I thank the Secretary of State. Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, emergency procedure, first and second reading, bill number 17. The debate on the text of the law is over. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I am voting on the next conclusion. There are, in particular, reasonable reasons for the return of Article 6 of this Act. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find that 127 votes for and 1 against the said conclusion. The amendments were submitted by the club of HSP representatives and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the law. I'd like to introduce the Vice-President to the amendment of the HDPA Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2307	Mr. President, this is an amendment to Article 5. That's right. The government is proposing, in fact, that this entire agenda refers to the topic that we have discussed quite a bit today. This is about erasing the provisions of the Law on the Praives of Croatian Defence and members of their families. The government is proposing that the amendment be withdrawn in view of the government, as the ministry has also been a little more than a month since I led the ministry, so it is one of the biggest problems. And that's the topic we need to absorb at the government's session, i.e., on the U.S. cabinette. And we're on the verge of precisely following your amendment, or the intensity of your amendment. And if you would be kind enough to crack the amendment, I am bound by the Government until the next session of the Parliament to report on further moves. And then according to that, and about picking out certain articles. But we need a little more time to clear up and here I am asking you to accept this explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2308	In the name of the HDPA Club in terms of the constructiveity to finally address the problem of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families we accept. But we'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2309	Thank you very much. Thank you for your trust.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2310	Thank you very much. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that, with 126 votes for and 2 against, the law in the text is mentioned in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the adopted amendments. In accordance with the proposal of the HSP satellite club, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to appoint an expert commission within 30 days to provide information and legal assistance to Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, the accused suspect or invited to witness before the bodies of the International Criminal Court in The Hague. I'd like to ask the Minister to be made aware of this proposal's conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2311	The government accepts this conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2312	Accepts and becomes an integral part. Actually, there's a vote to vote on. Who's in favour of this proposal's conclusion? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that that conclusion was adopted with 126 votes to and 2 against. We colleagues and colleagues now have the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, with the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers Do you want us to conduct a united debate here? What? So we'll stay a little longer then. But it can fit. Well, if there's any opposition, then we'll have a separate debate when part of the colleague disagrees. Then let's go first to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, with the Final Proposal of Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 19 The Proposer is Government. The discussions were conducted by the Committee on Law and Justice. Reports were received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Ms Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2314	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The improvement of the situation in the judiciary, i.e. taking measures to increase its effectiveness, will be a constant preoccupation of the government, and thus this Parliament. Namely, a large number of pending cases, a large number of delays, and the long duration of court proceedings, are a problem that is not only a matter of justice, but of our society as a whole. There are also different opinions and assessments about the cause of such a situation in the Croatian judiciary, the reasons are of course both objective and subjective. However, I think that we should no longer wear out or waste time in causing such a situation, but take immediate steps to eliminate this key problem of the Croatian judiciary, so above all, to reduce the number of delays and the duration of court proceedings. As you know about success... The measures to improve the efficiency of our judiciary will also depend on the European Union's assessment of Croatia's success in meeting the conditions for access to this institution. [[no switch]] However, I must say that it is not only about meeting Croatia's international commitments but also about our interest to join the European Union as soon as possible, and we are also obliged to change the existing situation in the first place because of us and our citizens, because at every step we face a negative perception of the public and citizens of the work of courts and other judicial bodies. So our goal is also to improve the situation and increase efficiency to restore citizens' trust in our judicial system. Of course, it is not possible to achieve this overnight and that larger shifts can only be expected over a certain period of time, but there are measures that can be taken immediately and they directly contribute to the reduction of the number of delays. And precisely among these measures that can improve the situation within a short period of time or faster to resolve certain types of cases and thus reduce the number of delays is this bill which is before you. How will this be achieved by this bill? By allowing cases in the jurisdiction of one or more of the courts of the local court to be transferred to the jurisdiction of another of the relevant courts. Therefore, that provision will open up the possibility that cases from one overloaded court will be allocated to the resolution of another less burdened court and will allow for cases which have been waiting too long for the resolution of burdened courts to be resolved more quickly in these other cases less burdened courts. As regards that proposal, however, it should be said that this possibility was also provided for under the applicable Law on Courts but was not implemented since the legal provision of which the amendment was proposed was formulated so as to allow for the entry into force of the case to be resolved only to the second real and local court. Thus, such a stimulant was inapplicable because the court as local authority could only be the one who had to act on it. What is also proposed is, as has already been possible in some way, the amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure, so that court advisers are given the power to carry out proceedings and prepare draft decisions in certain court proceedings other than litigation proceedings to some of the value of this draft law to judicial advisers, such powers would be given in both executive and leaven, land-booked extra-parisal proceedings other than the procedures for the withdrawal of the business capacity, the decommissioning of the co-ownership community of border arrangements and that authority would also be given in infringement proceedings. It is also important to amend the applicable provisions on the assessment of judges, since the existing provisions were non-life and objectively non-verifiable, and the question is that they should be implemented in practice at all. This proposal therefore establishes a completely new way of assessing judges so that the President of the Court determines each year whether the judge fulfils his judicial obligations. I recall, according to the applicable law, that assessment was given by the Judicial Council every three years while the judge's assessment of the judiciary would only be given in the event of a permanent appointment of the judge to a judicial office and in the case of appointment to another court. And precisely for these reasons, in the transitional and final provisions of this proposal, it is proposed to postpone the application of the provisions of this law relating to the determination and fulfilment of the judicial obligation so that they apply from 1.1.2005. And in the light of the need to remove delays as quickly as possible in resolving the case, as well as because of the inapplicability of the provisions on the assessment of judges, it is proposed to adopt this law by emergency procedure. With the above, just add. This law also lays down the obligation to adopt the Code of Judicial Ethics and amends the Croatian Supreme Court's internal organisation as the highest court in the country. Just one more sentence. The Code of Court Ethics sets out the ethical principles and rules of conduct of judges in order to preserve dignity and respect of judicial duties. Here, that's a brief bill. I call on you to support him in this way to access one of the first concrete measures of reducing the backlogs of millions of cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2315	I thank the minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Justice and Legislative Committee want to do so? They don't want to. We have reports. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, the first one is a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2316	Thank you, Mr. President! Dear Madam Minister, honourable MPs and MPs! The SDP club supports the adoption of this law. First of all, this bill is a good example of how governments should normally act when there is a change in the power of good things and continuity around common values and common interests should be supported. It's the best way to get things in a particular segment and fix it. Here, that's the case with this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, but unfortunately it wasn't the case with these other laws that we just discussed yesterday and one part today. It is noteworthy that this amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts is in direct connection with a significant novel of the Law on the Procedural Procedure adopted during the former Government and for which the general public and the expert public found it to be one of the most significant normative acts after the adoption of the Constitution. So he enjoys one general, so this novel enjoys a general consensus of good normative arrangement of our litigation process and all in order to make justice effective, i.e. Elimination primarily of various abuses served by almost all procedural participants. Therefore, the adoption and now the application of the Law on Procedural Procedure and the Law on Inheritance and these Supplements... that we are on a good track if it persists, of course more talk and material means that will enable these innovations to be realized. [[no switch]] To note, too, what is good, which was not possible to resolve these already amended laws, so a novel of the CAP, then a new Law on Inheritance. It is a good thing that certain technical solutions that are involving themselves in this law, i.e. involved in this law, allow something similar to that of the State's attorney's office, given the different structure, the hierarchical structure, but precisely because it had at its disposal, which had different instruments at its disposal to achieve certain efficiency. So, a whole series of legal solutions that exist in the Law on Attorneyship, in one way very similar but... the judicial authority, respecting their fundamental principles, therefore the principles of independence which it supports and their basic principle, the principle of the non-movability of the courts, enables that efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, it is precisely one of the most significant newspapers that allows the judge, with his consent, to be temporarily directed to work in a court of the same or lower degree or to a senior court as an adviser. In fact, the situation already shows that judicial reform results in smaller courts that are not so burdened by the inflow, so that they are precisely with certain material improvements but also with better legal solutions that eliminate these various abuses and enable the efficiency and awareness of the conduct of all procedural participants to achieve such a result. Of course, this is one of the measures that was made possible in the Croatian judiciary long ago. In fact, and at that time, so long ago when Croatia was still part of the former state, the County Court was always able to deploy the judge to other municipal courts from its district but, of course, additional financial resources were provided. It is also good in this law when the local and real jurisdiction is changed also for the efficiency of the conduct but also for certain situations or circumstances that follow a specific case to personalise the responsibility and that responsibility in the person of the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia that it is the responsibility to decide jurisdiction in these cases. What also cost the power of judgment and in some ways created a mutual mistrust within the judicial authority was a constant assessment. It's good here that it's been so decided that every year the judge is not evaluated but that it's taken care of precisely, that there's a record of how effective that judge was. Exactly how many cases he had solved. How many loose objects he's got left. How much was she, what was the quality of justice, or how many abolished decisions she had. They're all objective, they're all one objective criterion, so when that judge is running for a high court seat, he's clear in competition with other judges, because on the basis of such objective indicators, there's going to be a judicial assessment. And so each of them knows that it doesn't depend on one thing, that the system is efficient, that it simply works in all possible personnel combinations and that he knows in advance what his chances are in competition with other candidates. Therefore, it is something that will then strengthen the judicial authority itself, which will strengthen their confidence but also fully assume the responsibility that the executive and legislative authorities are giving to the judicial authority to bear this burden of responsibility and that it is precisely, that the judicial profession itself is responsible for the conduct of its members. Or that the frame is capable of detecting those among their lines that are not effective, which are not simply up to the judgment, by calling the court. However, what is closely related to this, therefore, where there is no objection that someone might think that just the executive or legislative authority in exactly one roundabout way would want to kidnap these... which belong to the judicial authority in the adoption of precisely those provisions which they themselves are invited to regulate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It has not been possible to do so far because not even through an association that has its own code but which, precisely because of nature and association itself, can only be bound by members of the association. Here is a legal obligation, but that the profession of ohda will bring a condex of judicial ethics, which will then be based on these transparent and objective indicators of efficiency and quality and moral integrity of each individual judicial official then know that there is an objective and transparent public way and reacts. I mean, when things like that are set up, then the possibility of taking on such a responsibility more strongly within the profession is less uncertain. It is good that court advisers are engaged in a larger way not only in terms of why they were also in the past, but also in the sense that significant resources should continue. Because it is common to object, and we have a significantly higher number of judges per capita than the other countries, which does not stand. Neither like that nor given the nature with which all the judge and the things he has to deal with in the process I think this is one good solution, after all it is also a obligation under the law of litigation, as well as a possibility. When court counselors make draft decisions. Of course, that is exactly the kind of decision that must be indicated. Thus, the judge himself concentrates on making his own decision, but in some things, the atom also enables judicial advisers. However, we must warn here that it does not appear that the evaluation of the funds necessary for the implementation of this Act that this note that the implementation of this law should not provide additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. All good things cost these are good solutions and real and certain material costs, and therefore additional funds are needed to implement this law. in order to enforce the law, so that law enforcement can be possible in the first place. Why am I saying this, first of all, will need to provide additional resources for those judges who pass to another court, especially if that court is far from their residence or residence. They will equally need to be provided for parties whose cases are being moved, second local and real jurisdiction is established, following the decision of the President of the Court. So it's an obligation of the state to secure these assets and because it's exactly the same as a legal solution. I warn this especially because otherwise we used to pass laws that we did not provide material resources that allow such implementation. And then we'd blame the judiciary for its inefficientness. Therefore, money needs to be provided, or we don't need to get involved, because then again and again and again, the critical public in the face of the judicial authorities, but also in good works, we will only increase. And we're all here to raise the power of judgment, not to humiliate it. Of course, I say there remains the fundamental question that even the judgmental authority finds its strength once again by that inner power, I repeat once again that it removes from its ranks those who tarnish such a lofty calling. So, as I mentioned in the introduction, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2317	I thank the esteemed representative, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. On behalf of the club HNS PGS esteemed representative Darko Shantić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2318	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, allow me, on behalf of the HNS and PGS Club, to point out at the very beginning, with special satisfaction that we will, therefore, give full support to this legislative proposal to amend and supplement the Courts Act. So we will simply join all those who are already and who will welcome after me that the ministry has therefore immediately put justice at the centre of all attention at the very beginning. And started with those newspapers that will improve the work and functioning of the judiciary. So the judiciary was fully founded on the top of the list of epriorities. I was still in the Committee on Law, and I told the Committee on Justice that it is regrettable that maybe this bill is not even more aggressive, so it does not affect a slightly deeper reform law in the courts itself. So he followed the answer, which I accept in part, that he wanted to go with those proposals that are clean, that are verifiable and that would not in itself make any further complications in the functioning of the judiciary. Why I was told that I am sorry that there is little more aggression in all this, from the very simple reason that the Croatian People's Party made up the public presented its project of judicial reform called better, faster judiciary. Where, besides the proposals proposed here, we have also highlighted a whole series of proposals that could have been incorporated into this Law. And I'm going to tell someone about it by analyzing certain provisions. A delegation of local jurisdiction should otherwise be considered as an objective necessity. Without which there is simply no faster functioning of the judiciary, which is otherwise in the interest of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I would point out that this is precisely the case for paragraph 5, which provides that the increased costs for such a delegation should therefore be paid from the budget between that bar tariff which also applies to increased travel costs and withdrawals from the law firm. We believe, however, that the provision, and I think it will be challenged by some or clubs or individuals, should nevertheless be rejected, although it could become questionable from a constitutional and legal point of view. In fact, we believe that the parties should preliminately bear their costs, and finally, in the event of success in the cost dispute, the other party pays, so in any case, the one who lost the dispute. I repeat, this view could be the subject of an assessment whether it is constitutional or not. But we at the club, after assessing all the moments, decided on such a proposal. I think there are amendments in that direction, so our club won't duplicate those amendments simply. The second thing I wanted to talk about was the questions of assessing the work of judges. It was necessary to establish all these criteria. However, in addition to these existing criteria that are proposed, we believe that if not now, then at least consider and consider possibly the possibility of giving a higher court assessment. Even more so, that the evaluation may be given by the Board of Appeal on the quality of the reasoning, on the quality of the conduct of the procedure, because before that Board of Appeal there is an entire file that reveals the quality of the whole procedure. This could also be another criterion for assessing the success, i.e. the failure of the work of judges. We welcome in any case the introduction of the Code. We believe, as my colleague Ingrid has already pointed out, that the judgmental authority, so the profession should be done by that code, and that we should only give here one starting base, the starting elements on which the profession will build the criteria for that code. However, what is particularly important to us is that this law is not left alone. It should also be followed by procedural, but also changes in the material, law of material and legal nature. Here are two examples. We don't have, or rather, we do, but we don't have a law of extraparency. Few people know that in the Croatian judiciary, the legal rules of the Act on extra-parunical proceedings dating back to the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia apply in a certain part of the legal rule of law. That's inadmissible. The adoption of a new Act on Extraparnical Procedure can significantly relieve the work of courts and regulate the extra-parnical procedure in a better way. I'll tell you just one life situation that's just absurd. The property of marriage mates is assumed to be divided into equal parts if it is acquired in marriage. When one of the parties following the divorce or in the course of the divorce initiates the process of decommissioning that matrimonial fluid, and the opposite party is not in the interest of carrying out that division, it will simply object after which, according to the legal rules, the court will, as far as the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, decide to refer to the party interested in the conduct of the proceedings, and this is the proposer who is prejudiced by another regulation that half of that property is guaranteed to him. You have absurd situations that houses are listed as marital fluids in land books by half, and one who wants to prove what is even evident in land books and what is prejudiced by the law must open a case because there is no proper quality provision of the Act on Extrapard Procedure, but it applies from the ancient years of the beginning of this century, last century. And some laws of material and legal nature could be changed without any problems, and to achieve the efficiency of the work of the judiciary and to prevent any deliberate litigation, but sometimes also speculative litigation. A concrete example. If you experience a traffic accident in which you have material immaterial damage, contact the insurance company responsible for paying for your damage, be assured - some of you may have convinced yourself, and the public knows it well - you will be quickly compensated for material damage. But in terms of immaterial damage you will be offered, therefore, out of court a small amount sometimes even offensive to the amount of damage you have suffered. Why? Because the damage is materially assessed according to the day of the damage, and if the insurance company engages in a long-term debate, it would have to pay interest from the day of the damage to the day of payment. In the case of immaterial damages, the date of the first-degree ruling and the automatic interest rate shall be calculated from the date of the first-degree ruling. It doesn't need to be much guessed why insurance institutions are paid to run a lawsuit for 5, 6, 7 years and to deal with practically money damaged because they pay interest anyway only from the day of the first-degree verdict, and therefore, practically benefits... Therefore, an amendment to the Law on Mandatory Relations would reduce the number of cases and stimulate peaceful resolution, thus stimulating the conclusion of extrajudicial agreements. [[no switch]] So, in addition to these significant, quality solutions that are on the trail of what the HNS finally wrote and published in its project, the reform of the judiciary, we believe that it should continue quickly and with those regulations that will further enlarge and improve this Law on Courts, all for the purpose of better and better and better functioning of the judiciary. There were speeches raised by my colleague Marinović, that the implementation of this law would require the provision of additional funds in any case, if this remains, of Article 5(1), where these additional costs would be paid out of the budget because of the delegation of local jurisdiction, that is correct, and that is where the proposer should publicly state that he would need these expenditures and we would surely accept it as a logical and reasonable explanation and I would personally, whenever it comes to justice, close down even if in that case and violate the business provisions. That's why I'm saying maybe it was meant to quantify in some way how much we would collect budget costs by implementing this law and then avoid that little dubiosis. So the HNS and PGS club fully supports the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, wishing that those in the perspective as we lawyers say de lege ferenda are further improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2319	I thank the distinguished representative Darko Shantic, on behalf of the DC HSLS Club, has a distinguished representative, Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2320	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Democratic Centre and HSLS club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Courts and hold it a concrete shift in reducing the number of pending cases in our country. The picture of our judiciary today is not even a little optimistic. It is made of too many lags, so large that sometimes the question is whether the judiciary can provide more effective legal protection to citizens and legal persons at all. According to a general assessment of the length of the proceedings, one of the main symptoms of the judicial crisis in the Republic of Croatia is considered. Since there are other less obvious and less measurable dysfunctions in the Croatian judiciary than lack of experience, knowledge in the trial where it results from decisions of poor quality to difficulty... Ensuring impartial and fair trial for individual categories of parties and types of cases. [[You don't understand.]] The problem of securing the trial within a reasonable period of time at the beginning of the third millennium has surfaced as the most concrete and... The European Court of Human Rights has already criticised Croatia for the slowness of its judicial system. [[You don't understand.]] The estimates of the current number of pending cases are huge and range from one and a half million to more. The fact is that judges do 30% of their time in non-judicial affairs, i.e. administrative and public records. While the courts in Zagreb are seeking an increase in the number of judges by 100% in some other courts, norms cannot be achieved. So I repeat this law once again the argument in solving these problems further. Secondly, there is a weak systematic and permanent professional education of judicial officials and officials, which is primarily necessary because of the new rules that are adopted to bring Croatia's legal system in line with EU law, but also to meet the needs of Croatian society. Third, there is a lack of systematic and continuous basic information education. We believe that all judicial officials and most officials should be trained to work on computers, which should not be specifically explained. Fourthly, there is no work space missing, with part of the existing space not responding at all to its purpose. And let me remind you, there are courts working in 19th-century semi-destruct buildings. Fifth, lack of equipment, and not just modern as it is. informational rather than those without which it is unimaginable to conduct everyday affairs neatly, for example. Appreciation cars, “marice” etc. The sixth, judges and other judicial professionals lack professional literature which prevents judicial officials from educating themselves until a permanent education system is established that will organise and finance the state. Seven, lack of funds to finance current business. Some courts are sometimes unable to pay both postal and telephone expenses. Eighth, irrationally organised network of judicial authorities, too many small state attorneys and courts, some of which do not have enough work to do with the simultaneous burden of only a few judicial institutions, especially in Zagreb, Split and Rijeka. For all these reasons, this bill is a good basis for solving all key problems in the judiciary. In addition to judges there is no overlap....there are other categories of employees with a judicial function to which the judge should rely more in the work. And above all, there are judicial advisors, and there are senior court advisers, judicial practitioners and court officials. Not enough attention has been paid to these categories so far. It is good that this proposal lays down the powers of the judicial adviser and gives the possibility of greater independence of the judicial advisers to resolve the case. We agree with the proposal for the evaluation of judges not until next year, but we are free to propose that when it comes to monitoring the work of judges, we think it is necessary to establish an inspection service within the State Judiciary Council as an additional mechanism to support the President of the Court's competent and strict responsibilities. Such an inspection service would be integrated with the assistance of independent inspectors of full-time staff appointed by the State Judicial Council between judges in the active service and would perform supervisory inspection functions to ensure the appropriate work of courts. Finally, the Democratic Centre and HSLS Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2321	I thank the esteemed representative Brletić. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Vrsek's esteemed representative. Scream, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2322	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State. The HSS Club will also support this law because it believes it is good to continue a continuity of work carried out by the previous Government, or the Ministry of Justice, but of course with a few notes to the promoter. It is obvious, therefore, that by this law the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided to solve the problems of the judiciary, i.e. the bodies of the judicial authority and, above all, its effectiveness. However, it is obvious that this is to be achieved segmentally, and it seems to us that in the law it wants to be resolved in two ways. The first way is to do this through the discharge of cases that are overloaded by cases, in order to assign the same cases to work in courts that are really competent to resolve such types of cases, but are less burdened. It would be good, and of course, to mention another way. And another way is by introducing a strict court responsibility. It would be good if the government directs such laws to the Croatian Parliament to indicate exactly how much funding is needed for the implementation of the law, and I very responsibly argue that significant financial resources are needed for the implementation of this law. Although the Government under point Roman III. “Assessing the resources necessary for the implementation of the law” argues that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. According to Article 1 of this Act, the President of the Supreme Court, with the prior opinion of the General Court, can therefore determine that in certain types of case, that is, in a particular legal case, another really competent court, if the competent court is overloaded. It is both right and necessary, that the President of the Supreme Court, in addition to the general session of the Supreme Court, be competent to decide which cases are subject to another really competent court for action, but the HSS Club considers that this will not achieve the desired effect. Anyone who is referred to the work of the courts knows what this means when a court that has no problem with the problems in solving cases may receive several hundred new cases and what this means for each judicial referendum in particular. The consequences of this law will also be that citizens will have to travel much longer when the procedure is carried out. Witnesses and witches shall also, in order to come to, or access, another really and locally competent court, because it is visible in Article 3(1) that it is cases in which no procedural action has yet been taken, which means that the whole evidence procedure must be carried out. We can only imagine how much it will cost, and how much time it will lose, which in any case might mean extending the duration of the procedures themselves. I hope we all agree that the fate of the Republic of Croatia is independent and that this must continue to be so. Although there is no direct connection, I must point out that, apart from the Commercial Courts, municipal and county courts are set up as a model for the political division of the county, so each county has a County Court, and every former municipality has a Municipal Court. Here, it should be said that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may have had to, but do not take it as the position of the HSS on which it will insist, be braver and after the assessment that both municipal and county courts are unevenly burdened, and, as the case may be, you should also think about organising courts differently on the ground. Because the territorial structure of the judicial authority does not have to correspond to the structures of the county, or municipalities and cities. Of course, I mean those former municipalities. It may not suit the citizens in the first wave, but I believe that our condition is that we have an effective judiciary and that is the first goal expected of this ministry, or government. When I spoke about the costs, i.e. the means of applying this law, it is evident from the text of the law that the government's assessment is not correct because, already in Article 5(1) of this Law, it states that the costs of the parties and their proxies will be paid out of the state budget. Since we all know that these, these costs aren't small, we can only assume how much that will cost, and the government says it won't cost anything. It is also not the most significant fact that this law would ensure real efficiency or at least improve it. It is good that this law introduces and strengthens the responsibility for fulfilling the judicial obligations of Article 18 of this Law through the competent judicial council, but I must say that the largest number of judges in the Republic of Croatia are doing their job with honor, honesty and professionalism. To make an appointment in time, and also to make the decisions that were made in time. For justice reform, I think it is necessary for the HSS Club to initiate procedures in the system, which the government should have done or at least looked at the situation, and in cooperation with the profession... A little and more time, but the effect would certainly be much better. [[no switch]] If we look at Article 32 of this Law, it is clear that this proposal also further allows for a delay in the procedure. The Court of Justice shall, on the basis of the procedure under which it is, of course, authorised to submit a written proposal to the judge on the basis of which the decision is taken by the Judge, states in paragraph 2 of new Article 76a. In paragraph 3 of the same article, however, it reads "If the judge does not accept the proposal given to him by the court adviser that the judge himself will carry out the procedure". This applies to litigative, executive, leave-of-the-art, non-partial, infringement and secondary proceedings and extraordinary legal proceedings where court advisers report on the state of the file and prepare a draft decision. These provisions mean, in fact, that in case the judge does not accept the motion twice, the evidence will be carried out. Which means carrying out all the evidence that has already been carried out since the hearings of witnesses, witches, parties, and all the other evidence provided for by the procedural regulations. We can only assume how long that time will be lost. It is good, however, that the provisions of this Law would be added to them to regulate the adoption of a code of judicial ethics, which is known to be expected by judges themselves. In the HSS, we believe that courts would be much more disbursed as the first different organisation of the judicial authority and then the revision of the procedural laws. First of all, we are referring to the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Criminal Procedure because these are cases that are mainly burdensome to courts. The latest amendments to the Law on the Prairie Procedure were on track and I think that this should continue and perhaps be prepared very professionally with the consultation of the Judicial Authority a brand new Law on a litigation procedure that would allow for the swift and effective conduct of the litigation process but would not violate the principles of civil procedural law itself that all the countries of the European Union have. The same should be done as regards the Code of Criminal Procedure, I think it is in the process and that principles are being prepared for our new criminal and procedural law, and that is good. With these three very important projects, the government would be much more credible if it convinced us that it was done, I think it would be faster and easier to get to the desired goal. What's important besides this, and I haven't mentioned it here so far, although it has nothing to do with this Law, and besides, these cases are very burdensome to the courts is to sort out the land books where the new Law on Land Books should also be passed. I hope I don't have to convince you because these data are so generally known that there is a need to react very quickly here and that this represents one but certainly important reason why foreign capital is harder to enter us. Moreover, citizens themselves know what they have to go through to solve a certain land-book subject. On the basis of this, we propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it take serious account of the situation and that it is more committed to resolving these issues and that it assesses another not-so-insignificant matter with regard to the jurisdiction of the judicial and executive authorities, which is the fact that our courts are burdened and many of the cases that fall under the judicial authority of us and almost all the Member States of the European Union, these cases fall under executive or administrative authority. As for the very organisation of the judicial authority itself, I very responsibly say to you, Madam Minister, that no one in the European Union will ask us what the organisation of this judicial authority is but will always ask us if we have reached certain judicial democratic standards that the countries of the Union have and the matter of the judicial authority organisation is our only internal issue. It would also be very good for the entire judiciary of the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens that the government is really starting to deal seriously with these problems that I pointed out in the previous presentation, regardless of the cost of implementing these reforms. I hope we agree that the full efficiency of the judiciary and satisfied citizens at this point is not primarily important. So once more I will repeat the HSS will support this Bill proposal, we have submitted one amendment to Article 5, because we did not consider that by lecturing the text to correct Article 3 of Article 5, I see that my colleague Josipovic has also submitted an amendment to the transitional and final provisions because what is already becoming a problem for us, and this is the entry into force of the Law and its application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2323	I thank the esteemed representative for the debate, and this concludes the debate by clubs and we move on to individual debates for 10 minutes. It is up to the honourable representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2324	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, as the first, I am joining all those who supported the applicant first because of the fact that, at the beginning of the new government's mandate, there is already a concern for the situation in the judiciary and the second because it has begun to respect what some have done before, so from one continuity that is commended for every authority. Well, maybe given the situation in the judiciary, someone in HSP's vocabulary might say it's mild grass on an angry wound, but I wouldn't say it like that. In fact, I think the fact that at the very beginning of the work of the new government is already moving with one important step to seek commendation. In order to contribute to what the objective of this Law is, I have proposed a few amendments that I see that, in fact, colleagues from other clubs have more or less accepted themselves to the same conclusions and it is, first of all, about the fact that it will not be possible to implement Article 5 which was without sensitive costs, this is not about small but really big costs. Furthermore, my amendments refer to me as an absolutely inappropriate engagement of the Constitutional Court as a third-degree judge in the evaluation of the team before it comes to a kind of... decision and I think it is so high... /No overlap./...or even the question whether it is just a judicial body that should not engage in such relatively small things. Furthermore, I have proposed several improvements in the formulations in terms of clarification of meaning, as well as harmonisation with the new Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education as regards the terminology for the qualification necessary for the selection of individual judicial posts. It is, of course, a matter of university degree, which I think is particularly important to highlight the study of law. And of course, there have already been, on this point, some nomotechnical innovations that this Parliament once, I don't know how long ago it established that it had no basis for the theory of law and the practice of other parliaments, so I suggest that, if such practice had changed, some of the parameters of nomotechnics had been established, and in that sense, we have also proposed to hold a thematic session to which external experts would be invited to help the criteria to end. In the end, I would say that there have been some statements here about how many laws need to be amended to resolve the issue of justice. I have to tell you, I don't think so. I don't think so, because I think the normative optimism that often exists in Croatian society obviously doesn't produce results. It was also about the need to change some material and legal regulations and some procedural legal regulations because there are major problems in their application. That's right. However, I think it is very important to avoid any problems because the regulations are really wrong or because they are not applied properly. Unfortunately, there seem to be a lot of these other cases, and we very often change regulations because they don't apply properly, so we bring regulations that don't apply again because there are all those problems that have been talked about from poor education in the judiciary, too little personnel, too little money, and all that I don't list further, which leads to inefficient justice. One word I personally support the bill, and my little contribution I tried to make in the 8 amendments I proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2325	Thank you... A representative to Josipovic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is up to the distinguished representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2326	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, a lot has actually been said about this bill. In fact, I also want to join those who support the law. The law is actually a good foundation, an act that gives us hope that the situation in the judiciary will start and change for the better. The former assembly of parliaments has already passed, and the government passed at the end of its term has indeed passed procedural laws that create certain assumptions that proceedings before courts are resolved faster. This is the second law and second foundation that gives us the possibility that those courts that are burdened with a large number of cases simply move these cases to courts that don't have so many cases and thus get to a more even burden on those courts. And I therefore think that the Law should in any case be supported, that it should be applied as soon as possible by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, means that it establishes quotas that go to other courts. I would also agree with colleagues who spoke about the costs that this Law would bring. And that is true because the paragraph 5 proposed by this Law states that the costs will actually be paid from the State budget. I think that should be well thought out because these costs will certainly not be small because thousands and thousands of cases could be settled in various courts, and then pay the costs of both parties and witnesses and pronouns could be quite a point in the budget. So here's to not repeating my colleagues who were before me, I will support this Law and the dapacas as soon as possible in the Supreme Court to begin and apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2327	I thank the honourable representative Mr. Bošnjakovic. It's our guest, Ivan Chehok. Since he was not in the assembly, he lost his right to debate. Does the promoter want an extra one?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The law received support because it is indeed only one of the steps, although perhaps small ones that will contribute to improving the situation in the judiciary in general, primarily to resolving the backlogs and reducing the number of pending cases. Of course, that is not enough and that is not all, and that is just the beginning of the total measures to be taken to achieve the ultimate goal. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I thank all those who contributed by participating in the debate and concrete transitional amendments in order to improve the text of the Law. Thank you, sir... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2329	I thank the Proposer. This concludes the debate on this agenda point. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2330	Final proposal on amendments to the Law on Courts, an emergency procedure. The debate on the text is over. There's a table of amendments, submitted amendments. I ask State Secretary Snježana Bagic to be shown about the amendments to the table. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2331	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2332	The government accepts? Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of 2 MPs to Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2333	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2334	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 of representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2335	The government doesn't accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2336	Explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2337	Because the proposed amendment suggests that in the event of a case being brought from one court to another party... In fact, the provision would be deleted if the parties had the right to compensation for public transport costs. [[You don't understand.]] The government considers that it proposed that in this case the parties, when the case has already been brought to another court, and if they take place in the event that they... These costs of public transport should be compensated. [[You don't understand.]] During the debate, there was a lot of talk that would be increased funds. The government has estimated that it will not be such a large asset since in any case it will be taken into account which court is subject to the case. So, most of the time, they're going to give in to county courts... it is Zagreb, Rijeka or Split that have... [[You don't understand.]] in a lot of other courts so that the parties will not start with such great costs that if the parties were to be compensated if they were to cause such burdens on the state budget, and would be denied by accepting the amendments to the parties, however, on... [[You don't understand.]] costs if they still come into existence. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2338	Thank you. Dear colleague Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2339	I proposed the amendment not only because, in my court, the costs that could happen are relatively large, but also because there are certain possibilities of abuse. But if the government thinks they can handle it, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2340	Thank you very much. Amendment number 4 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2341	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2342	Five of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2343	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2344	Six club representatives of the HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2345	The government doesn't accept. It appears here that there has been an error in the writing of the amendments that the intervention to paragraph 4 of the new paragraph 4 has been intervened, not paragraph 3 in the light of the principle of the provision of paragraph 4 of the mandatory position. However, regardless of this, the Government does not accept it because the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article as... paragraph 4 should be observed in relation to each other, and that means that... [[You don't understand.]] position of lower courts - lower level courts... [[You don't understand.]] Their department meetings are valid for so long for these courts until the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia takes a different position. [[You don't understand.]] And this is exactly the kind of manipulation of the provision that the government has proposed contributions actually to clarity and, in fact, legal certainty, because it ensures that, in the event that the Supreme Court is late on a different issue, this position should then be applied by all lower courts, i.e. All departments of those courts. That's why the government doesn't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2346	Thank you very much. A fellow screamer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2347	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It was not about that, it was about clarifying the concepts of which the attitudes were mandatory, or whether the attitudes of the lower were mandatory and behind the higher court or higher for the lower. Since the text is so written that it's unclear I think it can be corrected by teaching the text. But I'm sure there'll be problems. But no matter what, I'm withdrawing the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2348	Thank you very much. So then it's in the newsroom... 7 Legislative Committee. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2349	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2350	8 of the same committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2351	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2352	9 representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2353	The government does not accept it because this is about the way the presidents of the courts will evaluate how judges act in a judicial capacity. At first glance it seems really logical to prescribe only to either meet the whole norm or not to meet and to... as proposed in the text of the law, these additional mechanisms are whether they meet 70%, more or less. [[You don't understand.]] However, as the evaluation of judges is quite complex and layered and the law has changed and has been changed in order to assist the presidents of the courts and to prescribe as many criteria as possible in determining whether the judge fulfils the judicial duty and whether he meets the full norm or not. The government estimates it's necessary to leave this behind to make... and then helped the President of the Court to give an assessment, and then to judges, in the text of the law, to see what these are all mechanisms, which are the graduations in defining whether or not he meets the norm. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2354	He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2355	I must say that I've heard this with regret for the reason that what the government is proposing in law means de facto lowering the criteria of evaluation of judicial work. Because I think it goes to the expense of the efficiency of the judiciary and that it goes to the harm of those judges who do their job fairly and neatly. It is an incorrect finding that there is no flexibility in this provision that I propose. It exists because it can always be quantitatively... The success, that is, the work of individual judges. [[You don't understand.]] And that's why I'm not personally a supporter of a variant in which this solution would de facto threshold and the default size of 100% decrease to 75. Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2356	Who is for this amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10 also includes representatives of Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2357	The Government accepts this as point 5 of Article 52, not points 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2358	That's okay, right, buddy? Thank you. Amendment 11 of the same representative, Mr Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2359	The government doesn't accept. This is about how the President of the Court will evaluate a judge who has been in charge of cases that are considered to be more difficult, more complex objects that, by their nature, last longer, so that because they have such objects in their work, they cannot fully meet the norm and is then proposed to determine that they are actually properly increased by 10%. The honourable representative suggests that this should be applied in a way that determines the corresponding result... increased by 10% rather than the relative weight of these cases in relation to the usual cases. However, if this amendment were to be accepted, the question would be asked in order to determine all this scale according to the weight of the case. ...that it should leave a stipulation as proposed in the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2360	Thank you very much. He's a colleague of Josipovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2361	The reasons are the same or similar to the last amendment. It seems to me that this formulation that I have proposed is more favourable both for judges and for the presidents of the court at the evaluation and gives them greater flexibility. For example, someone who has one of the objects of a criminal organization can achieve this one case and more than 100% of the norms in my court, and there is also a situation where I have a certain number of severe cases not affecting the entire Corps of Standards but only one part. That's why I'm staying with the amendment and I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2362	Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the votes he needed. Number 12 amendments to the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2363	The government doesn't accept. It is an amendment that proposes to delete a provision which stipulates that the decision of the President of the High Court, at the discretion of the judge, is a power of power given to him by the President of his court, in that case against such a decision, the dissatisfaction judge has the right to seek protection from the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. So it is proposed to amend the erasure of that provision. The government thinks it shouldn't be accepted. This protection before the Constitutional Court is, however, prescribed and deliberately put into the text of the law because otherwise it would not be considered to be against the decision of the President of the High Court of Justice to seek protection from the administrative court. Of course, such a solution is possible, however, if that were the case, the situation would often occur so that the appeal of the President of the High Court could be decided by the lower level court in the legal hierarchy, which is why the provision was left behind, and otherwise we hope that the burden of the Constitutional Court will not be so many objections.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2364	Thank you. Dear Representative Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2365	It's about the fact that the assessment I'm not saying may have been a better formula for the government to come up with, but the variant of whether or not the judge has fulfilled 150 or 130 cases gives jurisdiction to such a high instance as the Constitutional Court, which is otherwise overwhelmed by cases and fails to resolve very important matters concerning human rights violations, that it is truly irrational from the point of view if you want the Constitution and human rights and why the Constitutional Court is normally in charge. I'm sorry that's the case, but I'd like you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2366	Thank you. Please vote. Who is for this amendment? Thank you. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 13 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2367	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2368	Amendment of 14 MPs to Mr Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2369	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2370	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 15 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2371	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2372	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 16 Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2373	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2374	Thank you. It becomes an integral part of the law. 17 representatives of Mr. Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2375	Yeah. He is actually identical to Amendment 16 of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2376	Thank you. And he's part of the law now. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who is for this final bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? Thank you. I find that with 127 votes in favour, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the text has been unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2377	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 4 The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and in establishing the agenda we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this Act. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate referred to in Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Is the applicant's representative willing to further explain? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2378	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs. The government referred to the procedure of the Proposal for a Law on both exchanges and additions to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, with the Final Proposal of the Law. It suggests that this law be passed by emergency procedure. It is a law that technically complies with previously passed laws in this esteemed home, which is defined by new categories of government officials. We are in line with the Law on Child's Defence, which provides for the law as State's Attorney-General for Children and his Deputys. Furthermore, the Law on Gender Equality, which provides for a lawyer for gender equality and its deputies as a state official. And also with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Government Act and amendments to the Law on the System of State Administration, which introduced a new category of state officials instead of deputy ministers, and these are State Secretarys, and in the new government model, State Secretarys who manage central state offices. The government has proposed that state officials of the executive and legislative authorities continue to give up the right to a salary allowance based on a working internship. It therefore proposes that the provision of Article 12(4), which speaks of the right of government officials to 0.5% of the salary increase for each year of employment and not apply up to 20% in 2004. On this draft law, the Government has put its amendment on the initiative of the Constitutional Court, which wishes to include the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court in the order of state officials, since the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court are intended as a state official and to be determined by a corresponding coefficient of 7.14. I would ask that the law be passed today, so that it can be brought into line with the other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2379	Thank you. The committee's rapporteurs. Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2380	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of its competence set out in Article 57, the Committee discussed the law referred to above. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as a parent working body. In the debate, he supported the proposal from the Proposer to pass the law after an urgent procedure. In the debate, he also supported a settlement with the draft law and amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the draft law, which he was familiar with at the session. In addition, the Committee stressed that the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent the Croatian Parliament this is the part where we asked for the Court Act to go before it was passed, which I see and accepted. The Committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts be passed before what was done. The Committee also proposed two amendments to the benches, where they are actually required to be included in the list of officials by the General Secretary of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, and to set other amendments and coefficients for them. We suggest that this law be passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2381	Thank you. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's respected representative, Srecko Ferenčak. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, a respected representative, vice-president of the home, Djurdja Adlesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2382	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Minister, I will really speak briefly about this law, because it is one technical amendment to the law, but you will surely agree that it is necessary to amend the whole law, although we are doing only the minimum amendments in all the laws that we have discussed so far. And that is why I believe that at the end of the debate we should determine when one more serious amendment of that law will take place. I remind you that we haven't even established an ethical commission that needs to determine a conflict of interest. In the last term, I warned almost 2 years of not fulfilling obligations under the existing law. The entire mandate of the government and the Parliament ended without establishing an ethical commission, so there remained one, probably and intentionally real such impression that we are all the same, that we are all equal, and that we are probably all in conflict of interest and it is certainly very harmful, because when it comes to politicians, when it comes to institutions, then some other door is opening that certainly does not lead to quality democratic changes. The lack of an ethical commission actually tried to compensate somehow for the Law of Conflict of Interest, which was indeed hypocritical, because it determined the value of the gifts, then, while allowing government officials to trade, make deals with the state. What I would really like to warn the Minister that an emergency should be made, and these are again numerous affairs that have been shaken by the public and the last few months, which could be avoided precisely by the quality of the amendment of this law, that indeed for all those who should be elected or appointed as state officials they are really looking for checks whether they are being punished, whether they are being led against and what actions. I believe that would really be a good contribution, not only to the making of this law, but to the seriousness of every government. A little change like this, we'll support it. Here's really on behalf of the HSLS Club... We think it's necessary to make a whole new law. [[no switch]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2383	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2384	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor! The SDP club does not object to the adoption of this law and will vote for it. The club agrees that public officials are not paid 0.5% per year in this year as an addition to the basic debt salary. We have introduced that provision in the context of a reduction in the wage rate immediately at the beginning of our term of office and we support the fact that this restriction remains in force. However, in light of the latest appointments to officials by the government of Mr Sanader, the SDP Club expresses the surprise that the proposing, so the government did not scratch a little deeper under this law and changed some other articles. I mean, of course, article 15. What does article 15 say? I'll read it. "Employees shall have six months from the date of termination of their duty until the start of their pay on the second basis or until the pension conditions have been met, six months from the day of termination of their duty, the right to pay paid by the official on that duty and the next 6 months the right to compensation of 50% of the salary paid by the official on that duty. What, then, was to be changed in this article? However, some time-limits should be set, setting the time the official must spend at his office in order to obtain at all the right to use this privilege under which, after leaving office, he receives a high debt salary for another year. Why the suggestion of changing and making deadlines like this? You're already guessing the reason are scandalous appointments at the Ministry of the Family and the Ministry of the Interior. In fact, in the Ministry of the Family, she was appointed Assistant Minister Stefanija Bortek-Knešaurek and as Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2385	Comrade Stazic, it is not the subject of this debate, it is not the subject of this law. Here is a very short amendment and addition of this bill and you are talking about some potential changes to the law and you are connecting with some examples that should be prevented from being treated like this. Please remain within this law and these amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2386	Mr. President, this is a law called the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2387	On amendments and additions and which articles are changed and complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2388	An urgent debate may be held in principle and details.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2389	But in the context of the proposed changes, I know it as well as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2390	Mr. President, we now have two options, so that you allow me to present the club's position for this speaker or take my word for it. You have to give me a heads-up and then when I keep talking on behalf of the club, you have to give me a heads-up. These are your business opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2391	I don't have to give you a warning. The power of the chairman is yes or no. I'm not obliged to give you a warning. I do not intend to give you a warning, but I am obliged to warn you of what I am not saying but what the Rules of Procedure says, that each MP should stick to the subject of the agenda, the point of discussion. Here is an amendment to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials. Content of the amendments and additions are proposed, and beyond that would mean discussing beyond the agenda theme and this point. I ask you to do it like all MPs, because the Rules of Procedure is worth everything to us just as much as you do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2392	Mr. President of the Parliament, I can understand that what I'm saying on behalf of the club may be embarrassing to you, but I'm asking you nicely to allow me to present a debate on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2393	In this context, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2394	So, in the Ministry of the Family, the assistant minister was appointed...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2395	Comrade Stazic, I asked you to speak within this framework. It's out of frame.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2396	I am talking about amendments to the Law on the Rights of Officials, article 15 of that law that does not change and should be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2397	I'm afraid I'll have to take your word for it if you keep talking in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2398	Yes, you can. And for the secretary of state of the ministry, her colleague in all kinds of affairs Marijan Krizic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2399	Thank you very much. I'm taking your word. I'm sorry, but I'm taking away your word to speak more about this agenda topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2400	I'm asking you nicely for a break for the SDP Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2401	It's a stop for the SDP Club for 15 minutes. We're going back to work. I'd like a representative of the SDP Representatives' Club to take your word for it. Dear Representative, Vice President of the House, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2403	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the SDP Representatives' Club on the occasion of this break. For the first time, we have determined or concluded that the SDP’s objective is to damage the SDP, i.e. the representative of SDP’s Club of Representatives, in the opening statement on the point: Proposal for an amendment and addition of the law on state officials. Second. We must say that we are expressing our disagreement and we express our feelings that our Club has recently started to use discriminatory relations in these 2, 3 days because this is not the first representative of our club to speak and who has been tried to interfere with the opening presentation and finally what happened to fellow Stazic to take away his word. We would like to remind you that even in the event that Pancic spoke on behalf of the Representatives' Club, he was also repeatedly interrupted and made it difficult for him to say what he needed and had to say on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Third. We would like to remind the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public that never since the Croatian Parliament was established in contemporary independent and independent Croatia, it has not happened to take away a word from a representative of the club when the introduction speaks in the Croatian Parliament. And fourthly, we want to clarify why we believe that the Rules of Procedure have been severely injured to the detriment of the SDP's Club of Representatives. And for that reason we will ask that our club be allowed to continue speaking where it was interrupted in the debate. First, we want to determine in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure, discussion of the law in an emergency procedure, I quote: "In an emergency procedure, the first and second reading of the law is united." Therefore, according to the very spirit and content of the Rules of Procedure referred to in Article 159, it is possible to discuss the law in an urgent procedure and in a way that includes the debate in other readings. Secondly, what we want to conclude, if the debate is possible to cover both the grouping within itself and the first and second readings, then it should be recalled that in accordance with Article 144. Rules of Procedure, first reading, quote: "The first reading of the law includes the introductory presentation of the applicant, the general debate on the draft law, the discussion of the details, which includes the discussion of the text, the draft law, the debate on the position of the working bodies that discussed the proposal and the conclusion of the need for the law." I would like to quote: "especially as regards the session only of the Parliament", Article 148. "At the meeting of the Parliament, the draft law usually brings together a general debate on details." Dear colleagues and colleagues, our colleague Nenad Stazic, on behalf of the Club, led a general debate and discussion on details, so he held a debate on a law that changes and complements and what is proposed to change and supplement here. Sadly, he was harshly distracted and prevented so that his word was finally taken away. We ask that the word taken away be annulled and that Nenada Stazic be allowed to complete a speech in the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2404	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mati Arlovic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club. It is true and it is true that according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and according to the cited provisions, there is also a general debate and debate on details, but only in the context of the proposed amendments and additions. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials is an amendment, replacing the Deputy Ministers with State Secretarys, adding to the State Advocates for Children and his Deputy Advocates for Gender Equality of His Vice-Secretary in the Central Office, determining the coefficients for the salaries of these officials and the provision that one provision of this law will not apply in 2004. Mr. Trazic went beyond these frameworks of the law, proposed laws and amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of State Officials. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure may speak only of the subject under the established agenda. If the speaker gets away from the agenda topic, the president will warn him to stick to the agenda, I am Mr. Stazic's warning to stick to the agenda. If the speaker and after the second call does not stick to the agenda topic, the chairman will take away his word and in that case the representative will no longer be able to participate in the debate on this topic of the agenda. Since a respected colleague, Mato Arlovic, believes that I, as chairman, have actually been injured by the Rules of Procedure, will act in accordance with Article 209(1) of the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure, because I disagree with this complaint about hurting the Rules of Procedure on my part. And then, in that case, I am obliged to give an explanation after the consignee has been presented. I gave an explanation. Obviously, my explanation is that I'm a representative of the SDP's club is not satisfied. I, too, will request in accordance with Article 209. The Rules of Procedure shall be forwarded by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Rules I do not agree with the assessment that I am being discriminatory towards the SDP's club because I am keeping in line with the Rules of Procedure fully treated any club and any representatives. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome Mr. Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2405	Mr. President, you've injured Article 210. The Rules of Procedure because right now you said you disagreed with our assessment that she was discriminatoryly treated by our club. And I would like to remind you that you led the session while the opening exhibition on behalf of your club was held by Mrs. Representative and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mrs. Djurdja Adlesic. Who did not speak of the law on officials but spoke of ethical trust and the law on conflict of interest. You didn't warn her at all. And our club you not only warned, but you took away his right of speech even though he spoke about the law in question, at all debates as predicted by the first reading of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2406	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Ivo Loncar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2407	Mr. President, I've heard from you before when Mr. Arlovic was at the pay phone to correct the incorrect allegations. A colleague, Arlovic, said, "There has been a discriminatory relationship towards our club for two three days now." That's not true, because I didn't notice it, but I noticed an incredible amnesia in my colleague Arlovic because he should just look at the phonogram when we talked about Croatian radio TV in the previous term when he sent me no less than a guard. The same three times the watch was sent by Parliament Speaker Zlatko Tomcic. And then the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Mato Arlovic, told me now that we're going to check it out we're going to vote. Well, here we go and now we vote. Because it wasn't worth the arguments and the facts at the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2408	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Happy Ferenchak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2409	Dear Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The last meeting of the Croatian Parliament adopted amendments and amendments to the law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to the law on the system of state administration. These new categories of government officials have been introduced, and it is therefore necessary to install certain amendments and amendments to the laws on obligations and rights of state officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2410	Comrades and fellow consignor of the word, please allow him to speak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2411	I'm asking you to give me conditions so I can speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2412	I ask MPs to die to allow counsel Ferenchak to speak. Please proceed. Please continue, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2413	...because the system has to work, officials have to get paid to work. However, we would like to insist on the wrong moves that have led to the amendment of this Law. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to implement its pre-election promise to reduce the costs of the state administration, set out to unite certain ministries. With the move, only a few ministers were less and the total state administration remained the same. Up until today, he's been elected to the same number of state secretaries as the deputies have been. And yet not all the chosen ones are awaiting new appointments. So no savings were made as promised. Quite the opposite of these moves were imitated writing thousands of nm solutions on the assignment of new duties new entry into workbooks, new employers. New printers of a new record on buildings. Moving people to new locations, countless working hours of administration and millions of kunas of material costs, all paid by taxpayers. I must say, these moves have not even been achieved by organisational benefits. Because it is known that centralisation does not bring any acceleration but rather the opposite of centralisation of ministries complicates and slows the work. So there's no savings in the organization, no savings in the ministry's money either, but with this move, the government has made it possible for themselves to change their strange people. He has made a public promise that there will be no refanchism, but this is how he is quietly implemented. We agree, of course, that each minister must have his team and his closest associates, but we are witnessing that highly educated non-party people must change to the ministries, and bring new and similar ones. And finally, according to Article 90. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, state revenues and expenditures are determined in the state budget, in a law whose application requires financial resources must be provided for by their sources. The parliament, the law is in the parliamentary procedure and the proposer himself wrote that funds in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia have been provided for the implementation of this azacon. Since the state budget has not yet been made, I ask for an answer on who is when, by what decision and in which item provided these funds. If these funds are not secured, the law does not have the basis for a business basis to be included in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2414	Thank you. Does the Committee's rapporteur want... Injury of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Rados, please. [[no switch]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2415	Mr. President, either you hurt the Rules of Procedure or Mr. Ferenchuck. He spoke of this issue as being at least as far off as the subject of the narrow bill as MP Stazic. If you have decided to apply these standards, or archines, then you should have given a warning and taken away the word to Mr Ferenchak. If you didn't, then you injured the Rules of Procedure just before you did it with Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2416	I didn't estimate and estimate that Mr. Ferenchuck had strayed from the topic under discussion. Would Mr. Palaric like to take your word for it? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2417	Mr. President, honourable MPs. I thank you for the discussion of the bill's proposals and for all those who support its adoption. But I certainly need to look back at the critical allegations about the number of state officials and the announcements that they will be increased, the more they are said to be... More secretary of state than it is deputy minister. [[You don't understand.]] With this reorganisation of the state administration summit, we wanted to and we did so, we reduced the number of ministers, the Deputy Prime Minister without resources, ministers without portfolios, and we created a government that has a smaller number of members. I won't tell the smaller government because it's big or small by deed. So a smaller body that is faster and more operational can work and it is seen because by the very logic if in one set 20 people each takes a word and it lasts more. We introduced the State Secretarys as one category and we determined, we proposed, and the Parliament brought it to the State Secretarys to manage the central state offices and that is... /The speaker has been excluded/...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2418	Mr. Palaric, you are now giving an explanation of the law you gave in the opening statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2419	Okay. I just wanted to say and answer that there will be no increase in government officials and that additional resources should not be provided for the application of this law other than those secured by a decision on temporary... , and later in the budget that will be passed. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2420	Thank you. Let's go to the next point: Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Obligations and Rights of Officials, emergency procedure. The debate on the text is over. There are also amendments submitted to the table. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State Palaric for an indication of the amendments. Amendment No 1 to the Legislative Committee. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2422	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We are here in an unusual situation and in violation of Rule 132 and Article 152. Namely, what it's about. When proposing, the applicant must explain what he proposes. Let me make it simple. It must assess the resources needed to implement the law, and that should also be explained. This is equally true of Article 152. The Rules of Procedure of which the final proposal is, where I quote: Information on the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law and on the way in which these funds are provided and other important circumstances relating to matters governed by the law. In fact, we will soon discuss the budget for which we will always claim to be both developmental and social. This is where we're socially expendable. We don't know how much we spend, and individually when we're going to propose amendments, when we're locals and things like that for development projects, then we should probably know in advance what we're spending, how much, and of course why. I would ask that such proposals do not come here to Parliament that have no reason, which do not have an estimate of how much money we will spend and I would ask you to protect Parliament's integrity. We're actually discussing the opposite of the Rules of Procedure and we're spending the state budget, and we don't know how much and what.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2423	My colleague, Pacek. This Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials with the Final Proposal for the Law is very precise, which is the meaning of this Law, which is with financial obligations. I think it's quite clear. It is clear that in the absence of budgetary resources, it is necessary to lay down by law that the provision of Article 12(4) will not apply in 2004. The Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials, on increasing the salary of government officials by 0.5% for each completed year of employment. Well, then it's obvious there's no need for financial resources. Comrade Pacek, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2424	Thank you very much. I agree that it says here that all of this is secured in the state budget, but I warn you that Article 152 states that the proposer should say how much. How much. That's my accent. How much are we going to spend to increase the coefficients, increase the number of employees, how much is this going to cost the state budget? In the final proposal, this is the proposal's obligation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2425	I think there are all the necessary arguments in the bill's proposal, in the light of the bill's proposal. I'd like a statement from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2426	Mr. President, honourable MPs. The amendments to the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system were submitted to Article 1 of this Law. The government accepts these amendments in substance, and as far as... State officials, Chief Secretary of the Constitutional Court and Secretary of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] However, we cannot accept such nomotechnically arranged amendments since moving the sub-items is not possible to comply with the legal text. So we are ready to accept these amendments, but in the government's formulation, where we would count all state officials, and if the representatives of the committee agree, I would now read that government formula. It's a little longer, but we'll finally know who all the state officials are. In law, therefore, and that would be an amendment...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2427	Wait a minute, Mr. Palaric. Just a little Secretary of State. That's 4, 5, 6 pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2428	Yeah...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2429	Since the Committee's presidents both for the legislation and for the Constitution and the political system know this perfectly, this is about a population numbering. So I don't think it's necessary to read everything. But if the board presidents agree that it's a numeration not to read then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2430	Yes, we are there in certain places where we should insert what was proposed to the amendments and so that, I am willing to hand over to the Secretariat of the Parliament such a formulation of the Government and if the presidents of the clubs agree, and they get it, the board presidents, I would accept such an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2431	Mr. Vrsnakovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2432	The amendments are fully known.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2433	Okay. The amendments then become an integral part of the law and the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution and the political system. Number three is your amendment, Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2434	Yeah, he's already in...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2435	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you very much. 4. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2436	4. The Legislative Committee and 5. The Committee on the Constitution shall read as follows: “All officials with the corresponding coefficient shall be counted equally”. Therefore, the Deputy President of the Constitutional Court, the Secretary-General of the Constitutional Court, with the corresponding coefficient, the Registrar of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the State Secretary, the Advocates for Child Equality, the Deputy Advocates for Children, the Deputy Advocates for Gender Equality and the Deputy Secretary of State in the Central State Office shall be appointed. All with the corresponding coefficients in the table where they are in order is the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2437	Thank you very much. I find these amendments to be an integral part of the law. Any amendment under the relevant nomenclature and the label of the article will need to be clearly placed in the nomotechnical design. I am voting on the final draft law with these amendments. What?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2438	Amendment number 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2439	What amendment number six?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2440	I've got it in my plate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2441	This time it's my fault. I'm back. You're right. Legislative Committee, Amendment No. 6, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2442	The government doesn't accept it because it believes that the government's proposal is not technically correct. Since this law does not have an article 12, and it is not about amending Article 12 or supplementing it, it is about a new article that states that this article is temporarily... Therefore, we do not accept this amendment for nomotechnical reasons. [[no switch]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2443	Mr. Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2444	I agree with the government's explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2445	Thank you. Is there another amendment? There isn't. Then I am voting on the final proposal of this law along with the amendment adopted. Who's in favor of this bill? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Abstained? I find that with 120 votes for and 6 against the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. Seven. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, with the Final Proposal of the Law emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 9 The Proposer of the Law is the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and Justice with the reports the deputies received at the session. I ask the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vesna Skare-Ozbolt, to further explain the proposal to amend and supplement this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2447	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the introduction of this law, let me, however, tell me in chronological order what happened from that moment on, so from the beginning of the 99th year, when the Croatian Parliament made a decision, that is, the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials who were found to be paid by judges and other judicial officials to increase by 0.5% for each year of internship, and 20% at the most. Already that same year, it was found that this provision would not apply, and in the coming years this provision was put into effect and was valid until today. The argument that 0.5% on the salary of judges for each year of work did not pay off was the fact that the state budget could not provide sufficient resources. Each year, the ministry calculated how much funding was needed on the basis of indicators of the number of judges and was informed by the Ministry of Finance. However, the result of all efforts was to propose amendments and amendments to the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers and to extend the application of the provisions of Article 6 always for the following year. On 13 December 2002, at the 26th session, the Croatian Parliament concluded that it had committed the Government to ensure the application of Article 6 by 30 April 2003 at the latest. Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials relating to the right of judges to an internship. On the basis of the data on the number of judges on 31 December 2003 as the starting basis for the calculation of the funds necessary for these purposes, it was found that in all judicial authorities, courts, state attorneys - a total of 2, 000 and 426 judicial officials and according to the data on the average internship of judges and judicial officials by each court, i.e. the State Attorney's Office in 2003, it was necessary to provide approximately 60 million kuna. There have been large objections and justified particularly by those judges with an extremely high judicial standing, especially those who are in front of retirement in relation to those judges who were practically equal at the beginning of their judicial careers, i.e. both in salaries. For these very reasons, both the Government and the Prime Minister have proposed an amendment that could at least partially correct this injustice. The government therefore proposes two amendments to this draft law. The first amendment refers to the fact that the proposed amendment to judges and other judicial officials during 2004 will not pay the compensation laid down in Article 5 of the Law, that is, the addition to the salary assigned to the Deputy President of the Court, that is, the Deputy Head of the Second Judicial Body or the Judge who performs the tasks of the Head of the Department, or the Head of Department and the compensation established in Article 7 of the Law, that is to say, the right to increase the salary of the judge or the judicial officer referred to in the second court. The second amendment proposed by the government will allow the judge, i.e. the state's attorney, to exercise the right to increase wages of 0.5% only for the internship achieved in the conduct of the judicial, or state-level, duties and not for the overall staff. The government has made one additional and huge effort to secure the funds, so judges and state lawyers are paid an allowance to the internship, so I repeat the judicial internship not as a whole, and we hold that this is still an important step towards better compared to what we've had in all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2448	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to report? The Justice Committee? No, I don't. The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. For a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2449	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. First, the IDS club believes there was no reason for this law to be adopted by an emergency procedure. Secondly, I hold that there is no doubt that even if there is an increase in the salary of judges that our judiciary will be more up-to-date, it will be just as tromical as it has been so far. You, if you make the slightest oversight, for example. In business you will be exposed to dragon punishment, the only judges are exempt from liability in the event of wrong illegal decisions. Someone's fate could be ruined by a wrong decision, for example. I mean it, and those who have stepped behind such a decision or a comprehensive proposal will not be able to bear any conjecture. But clearly this is not the subject of the debate, and I will not talk about it. The subject matter of the debate is seen whether judges, whether other judicial workers in the Republic of Croatia recognise the famous 0.5% supplement per year. The truth is, these 0.5% per year internships have no president of the state, no Prime Minister, no ministers, no representatives in the Croatian Parliament, etc. However, what is important, this law does not allow judges, or other judicial agents, for the same 0.5 years per year. In this country, if I'm not mistaken, there are about 1900 judges. There are twice as many of them in the population as there is one Austria or Germany, three times as many in England, America and so on. On the other hand, trust in this profession in the Republic of Croatia is dared to say minimal, and we know why. If in a country there may be difficult circumstances that the ancestors to some part of the Republic of Croatia came to him 500 years ago, then the problem of the Croatian judiciary is not in those 0.5% per year of internship but is a far more serious problem and far deeper. I am not the only one in this House who has received objections from the Association of Croatian Judges to this law, which comes from an abominable concern for judicial independence, which on the other hand is suspected by a good part of Croatian citizens, and probably also Croatian representatives. It is true, I will repeat, in the Croatian judiciary there is certainly far more problems than these 0.5% per year of internship, but it is also undeniable for judges, that other judicial employees in the Republic of Croatia, those 0.5% per salary simply belong. We can change their coefficients, we as a Parliament can reduce those coefficients, cut their wages. It is clear that this would cause international convictions I do not know the executive authorities of the Republic of Croatia by these judicial associations. It would probably be apostrophe if it were understood as an attempt to discipline judges, but we simply don't have the right to judges, or to deny other judicial employees the salary of that 0.5% per year of internship, and that's just the point. We do not have the right to deny them what they have or to which all other users of the state budget are entitled except officials of the Republic of Croatia who should also have it, but good now. We also know that it costs real money. It costs before this morning when I spoke to the minister, she told me about 60 million kuna. The judicial association calculated that for judges as many as in 2001, this amounted to around 33.5 million kuna. If we exempt from the amount of 33.5 million kuna from those contributions on the basis of salaries that go towards local self-government, county or state, it turns out that these entities would be returned from these 33 million kunas somewhere around 13 million kuna. However, if we add to that number wage growth that is certainly coming from 2001 to today, if we add state lawyers and other judicial employees to this number, it turns out that, for example, in a year in the Republic of Croatia, about 60 million kuna should be secured from which around 20 million kuna could be returned to the state budgets again, or to local budgets. But for me, it's a far bigger problem than money. Let's just say, behavior and I'll say current authorities. On January 7th, we had the opportunity to read in the morning list a statement by the Prime Minister, which I literally quote, that the salaries of state and judicial officials will not increase by 0.5% this year for each year of the internship, as has not increased in previous years. That was, he says, a good decision from the former government, and we'll continue to implement good decisions. And this statement, in my opinion, would not have been disputed if the Croatian Parliament had not adopted a conclusion at its 26th session on 13 December 2002 that the Croatian Government had committed to ensure the application of Article 6 of this proposal by 30 April 2003 at the latest, and thus to ensure that judicial workers were accompanied by an internship. It should not be reminded at all that the HDZ Club was at that time the most aggressive to turn the initiative into an act of the Croatian Parliament's House of Representatives. And we've all been honestly amazed, to put it this way, by this turn from being spoken to the inactive. The same question arises, is it possible to say in opposition, and that in one way politics is conducted, and when it comes to power, it is clear that in a completely different way the drinking is turned, the people would say, upside down. The constitution says the Government of the Republic of Croatia must enforce the law, that it must implement other acts of this House. If this is not done by the proposer of this legislative proposal, which is the Government, and apparently it will not, then the question arises and what kind of message is sent to Croatian citizens. Why should they now respect the will of this House, if they are not willing to do so, the proposings of this bill. Who is it, I don't know, the Ministry, the Government, etc. to ignore the will of the Croatian Parliament and then ask the question of what kind of state do we live in? What are finally these reasons not to be secured in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, for example, for this year somewhere around 45 million, or 40 or 45 million kuna, realistically somewhere around 25 million kuna if I know that the budget for this year will be at least 5 billion kunas larger than it was last year. And finally, and for me it is also the most intriguing question, would now the former government which now has provided the opposition with that right to judges aside that it is not the right to give them at the moment of power's conduct from January 3, 2000 all the way there to the moment, for instance, the establishment of this House and the election of the new government. It's also clear that the height of the judges' salaries doesn't affect, I'll say, the independence of the judiciary. It is clear that during the conduct of the judge's mandate, and it lasts for life, their salaries should not be reduced, etc. It is also clear that the judicial associations or the judicial association in their, I don't know, material status of their members must, that they must represent the interests of the profession. However, it is also clear that although there would be an increase in salary by an average, let's say, by a tenth per judge, nothing likely would have changed spectacularly in the Republic of Croatia, or in their work. However, no matter what, that right belongs to them. I am aware of the fact that Croatia will continue to be a country which will often be called for due to judicial, let's say, independence or the situation in the judiciary, because of unresolved cases, etc. I am sure that Croatian citizens will continue to cultivate, let's say, mistrust in the part of the court officials, but to Croatian judges, I repeat, it is not possible to take away the right that belongs to any employee who is connected to the Croatian budget. For us, that's actually the point. It is true that neither MPs, prime ministers, prime ministers, prime ministers, pardons, the president of the state, etc., ministers do not have this add-on to the 0.5% internship, but it is not the subject of this debate. The point is to return what is right to judges who simply belong to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2450	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, a respected representative of Zdenko Harami. Okay. It's a little apology, buddy. The Minister wanted it before. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2451	Friends of Cain's, uh, one little note. Obviously, he did not listen to what I was saying concentrated enough, nor did he clearly read the amendments that arrived at the table. So the government corrected the decision the previous government had and decided to pay 0.5% to the judicial officials for the judicial internship they had. Therefore, therefore, you were wrong when you presented the entire argument you made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2452	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Agent Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2453	First, those 0.5% of judicial employees will not be awarded in 2004. And the question of whether he'll get it then and 2005. And secondly, these two amendments. I thought I'd talk about them, but they came to my bench at 3:00 and 45 minutes. A few minutes before I started talking. So much for the seriousness of those from the government who send their amendments to the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2454	Here you go, fellow Haramy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2455	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. The same arguments that my colleague Cain used now I'm using because I got those amendments also a few minutes ago, and I have a discussion prepared under the law that we got... And I'll just stick to what I had before. [[no switch]] The provisions set out in Article 6 should apply from 1 January of this year. The law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials based on which salaries would be increased by 0.5% each year. And up to 20% and the application of the provisions was suspended in 2003. Instead, the Government came up with a proposal for a law supplementing the laws on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials to suspend the provision in Article 6 if this Law of the Croatian Parliament is adopted for 2004. For reasons of proposing this law, it is stated that its adoption is related to the new financial year or the adoption of the State Budget Act for 2004. Although this is not stated in the statement, it is obvious that the Government does not provide for the provision of money for the implementation of the provisions of Article 6 of the Bill on the State Budget for 2004. Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. It should point out that the funds to be provided in the state budget for this purpose would amount to 30 million kuna per year net, which represents an extremely small item in the budget. When it comes to the fact that the government has come before this House with the proposal to amend and supplement the VAT Act and, if the law is adopted, the state budget would be left without 3 billion kuna, it is obvious that this is about demagogue motives rather than financial, economic or other motives. It also noted that an increase in gross national income was foreseen in 2004 by 3%, which should include around 5 billion kuna in the state budget. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees independence of the Croatian judiciary and that it should indeed be well paid independently. The truth someone will tell the judiciary in Croatia is in a crisis burdened with over a million pending cases, judges do not do their job properly, there is a suspicion of corruption and those underprivileged until the end of which there is no small number will be used by daily political reasons to say the judiciary is incompetent and corrupt. I have not come across in my 30-year work as a lawyer on judicial corruption, and as for the ability of judges as well as in any profession there are fewer or more capable there are in a small number of incompetent ones, but the vast majority of judges are such that they are committed and properly doing their hard and responsible work. Good pay is one of the preconditions of good and quality judiciary, future economic security and the dependence of judges contributes primarily to more efficient and quality work and then to preventing the release of quality judicial work into other legal interests as lawyers and public notaries, which are generally more profitable and ultimately contributes to the incompetence of judges to corruption. The Republic of Croatia as a candidate country for entry into the European Union and a member of the United Nations and then the Council of Europe, has therefore accepted several principles and recommendations of these organisations that should be mandatory for the Republic of Croatia. Thus, among other things, the universal declaration of independence of the Montreal judiciary in 1983, which requires Member States to ensure that the duration of the service, independence, personal security of judges, and the adequate remuneration of judges should not be changed at the expense of judges. Furthermore, the recommendation of the 94th Year Council of Europe Committee of Ministers, which also requires Member States to ensure in their membership the judicial status and rewarding the adequate dignity of the judicial profession and all in order to create a framework for the more effective work of judges. The Republic of Croatia is also bound by... a multilateral meeting of representatives of the Council of Europe on guarantees of independence of the Budapest judiciary in 98, which is required by member states not to change arbitrary salaries and pensions of judges. According to the European Charter of Judges of Strasbourg 98, which has been accepted by all Member States of the Council of Europe, and thus the Republic of Croatia is required that judges have the right to pay which is fixed in order to protect them from pressure and to influence their decision and that judges must give their opinion on the conditions relating to their salaries and their social status. Given everything I said earlier, it is obvious that the Republic of Croatia has taken on certain international obligations that must then be respected. Therefore, this proposed amendment brings judges into a worse position that changes their status, since the salary without recognising a past work add-on as a direct consequence has a reduction in the pension base and therefore lower pensions. In view of the fact that there was also a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Payments of Officials of State and in which the proposal requires suspension of similar provisions in 2004, if the Law is adopted as regards state officials from the executive and legislative authorities, it would be good not to adopt this Law on Court Salaries because if we are already denying ourselves then we do not have to do so to others. Due to everything said, the Croatian Peasant Party Club will not support the proposal of this law since the reasons for its proposal and adoption have no justification either in the financial or economic situation of the Republic of Croatia. By supporting the amendment proposed by the Committee on Justice, which is that this suspended article applies in 2004 from 1 April 2004. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2456	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2457	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, The SDP Club opposes this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officials, and the government's amendments tabled a threat to the SDP, and I think we should be aware of that in time to prepare ourselves even better. I'll look first at those amendments. So, not only will it not be paid for this year, 0.5 for a year's internship, but with these government amendments, the provision of Article 6 which speaks of the established past work of a judge who will not, therefore, be entitled to retire, which is now being spoken of by a colleague of Harami, so not only is his right to be denied... /There is no overlap./...in addition to the years of internship, but now not only will he not be paid but his right to years of internship, and it is determined that he has the right, the question of when and whether it will be achieved only on the judicial stand. It shall also be deprived of his right in the event of an addendum, of course, if he is still in charge of the management of the court, so if, in addition to the judicial exercise, he also carries out administrative matters in court. I think it's something we can really consider a coup against the judiciary. So we do one thing in one law, but when it is necessary to achieve an improvement in the independence of the judiciary and the efficiency of the handcuffed or closely related to it, then there is no money. With all these amendments and additions to the law with a cap and a fist is shared or at least the law further promises the promise given in the elections, so it is obvious that the reform of the judiciary will hardly be because they are being denied and, therefore, not only does the exercise of the right but also the rights that have not yet been realised for various reasons. So much for these amendments. However, the SDP Club has submitted an amendment to this proposal to amend and supplement the law by paying judges an addition per year to an internship, not by a judicial nature, but by an existing law, as indicated in the amendment itself. We believe that there have already been conditions and circumstances that there is no longer any reason to prevent the payment of the allowance per year of the internship, let alone the judicial, judicial officials. If we really care about judicial reform. The government has pointed out that this is its primary objective. Of course, that's what the previous governments have been saying. However, less is needed, of course, is very important what the government is saying, but even more important is what it does. Even during earlier HDZ authorities were not allowed to pay even during the last government. So now the question can be asked why didn't you do it? But we've done so many good things that as soon as the new government came, it changed as, say, this law that we've discussed recently changes and additions to family law. It was such an emergency to touch, for example, in the provision of Articles 6 and 53, respectively. Therefore, such an argument does not stand at all, and it does not stand for other reasons, because during the former government, here we will see ‘a budget really spends a lot of resources and energy to see how much the situation begins to improve. It's a long way from what needs to be stopped. So with such good things, especially those material investments should be continued if we really mean it or if we really care about handling the situation in the judiciary. Of course when the government says it's her priority. No government can have 100 priorities because money is never for all needs, but then it will really have to give up something, but it will hardly be able to give up because the promises are great. We have a real devaluation of promises. As counterpart Haramia said, referring to the Montreal Convention, she really has one chapter that says that when the situation is particularly difficult, the economic situation in one country, when all of her residents give up one part precisely because of the principle of solidarity, the granting of responsibility for a very difficult, difficult economic situation is then extremely permissible, it is possible therefore to have such a reduction or tightening of certain rights as the right to years of internship here, and here we see no year of internships but a judicial internship. Obviously, this isn't about the situation. So there's no reason anymore, a team before this isn't some huge asset. It can also be said: “Well you could have done so,” but during the last government there was an increased budget for the judiciary as it has not been in the last 12 years. So a lot of it has been done to say, and then it couldn't have been possible, even this perhaps minor amount of expenditure to be singled out. Therefore, he is here at the government now, if he really is serious about accepting this SDP amendment because I say there is no more reason for judicial officials not to be paid this supplement. In such a way, we can really compromise what has been achieved in the judiciary and make things worse. Why? Because experience in each profession is precious, and it is almost irreplaceable in the judiciary. And it's logical that a more experienced judge solves more easily and faster and quality objects, more quality objects. Of course there are young judges who are also, always exceptions, who are almost as ready as the one retired as we have reverse situations. But those are exceptions. So it's not a normal situation for a 69-year-old judge to have the same salary as 25-26. In particular, I think that such a situation is possible, one situation can be maintained for a time, but these people, too, the enthusiasm of their work, are slowly dried up. We've got people in first court today who have been meeting 180 percent of the standard for years. The question is whether these people in this situation and this kind of government relationship versus the judicial authorities are going to become a little bit more involved. Thus, it is also one way to reward those who do really well. There was one and a proposal to specifically valorize it, but it would cost the state a significant, much more than this supplement. After all, Mrs. Minister is also in her, those first performances also.../ There's no overlapping... to be fulfilled, and I believe she's in favour, but the question of how far the government is prepared and how much she cares about handling the situation in the judiciary. So let's show more in action, because the citizens will listen to what we're saying, but more than what we're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2458	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the PGS respected representative Darko Shantic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2459	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. Let me, for a very short time, since the time has already passed, and a lot has already been said, on behalf of the HNS Club and the PGS, on the proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers. The introductory finding of our club will not support the proposed additions of that law. However, I must admit, the promoter has tried in some way to mitigate the blade of these proposed supplements in a way that has nevertheless respected those 0.5% for each year no more than 20 of those who are only, or just for an internship conducted in the judiciary. My predecessors were already talking about whether or not that solution was very problematic and I would join it. But why aren't we for these supplements? An hour ago, we completed our discussion of amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. These proposed additions do not represent the logical consequence of what we want or what we have drawn or what we have all spoken of in some way about the need to achieve amendments and additions to the Law on Courts. We, by discussing the Law on Courts, have assessed that the responsibility of judicial officials should be strengthened, and what do we do now with this law? It is those officials who are the most responsible for the functioning of the courts, those who should in some way teach me younger colleagues in Article 5, which are the raisers, I will quote that there would be no confusion, these are "the deputies of the President of the Supreme Court, those are judges who perform the duties of the head of the department, i.e. the deputy head of the department, and these are the presidents of the County Commercial and Municipal Courts who would be recognised in a certain percentage supplement, precisely because their responsibility for the work of the court has been increased". We eliminate these percentages, or prolonging them, without even getting data on how much that savings would actually be. However, we act even more illogically than the Law on Courts if we accept that when we go to work in another court we cannot add an increase of up to 50%. Today, we have already declared ourselves a delegation of courts, so cases can be transferred to other courts, less burdened. But we also have the possibility of judges moving from one court to another to get rid of the accumulated objects. The question is therefore, will it be cheaper in some situations for both the budget and the parties to move the case from court to court or will it be cheaper for the budget and better quality of the court's work if the judge goes to work in another court? And Article 7, where we prevent a salary increase of up to 50%, we significantly limit it, because you will find a small number of people who, without that increase, want to accept going to work in another court. I believe, therefore, that the change has just been made in this way, that it has been prolonged, therefore the delayed application of Articles 5 and 7 has led to further deteriorations in practically the whole situation and inconsistencies in relation to judicial officials if we wish to carry out the Court Act in a consistent manner. Therefore, with the reasons already said before, we believe that it is only right and correct to accept the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives and Amendments of counterparts Josipovic, which stipulate that the provisions of Articles 5, 6 and 7 apply from 1 April 2004 and thus avoid any misunderstandings and shortcomings of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2460	Thank you, dear colleague Shantic. It's time for a respected colleague of the Czech Republic, on behalf of the HSLS Club, DC.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2461	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. All material rights primarily pay are merely an expression of social care and social values, and then a zeroimaline and dignity which is a particular social group of society and state attaches to certain social services. So are the material receipts of the salaries of judicial officials the expression of the social value that this entire society attaches... A lawsuit. [[no switch]] Our debate today is, in some ways, an expression of value that we, as well as officials, attach to the judicial profession. I must be honest that HSLS would not be inclined to support the draft of this law in its original form, however, with this amendment we still think that correcting the error and misvaluement of the work of judicial officials. I can't also not mention here that unfortunately the former government could have done the same thing with at least this amendment and at least admit the judicial internship, which unfortunately wasn't done in the judiciary. And in the 2003 budget, no funds have been found to adequately evaluate the work of judicial officials and that this amendment, however, even after today's debate, and I hope that the adoption of this proposal also allows judicial officials to have the right to add 0.5% to each year's internship, or 20%, for each year they are trained in judicial bodies or on judicial duties. It is quite certain that it would be better, that it would be fairer if all other services in the Republic of Croatia had the right to supplement each year no matter what profession the year of the internship was achieved. It would be fairer if the judges had the right. However, since it is still a matter of judicial officials, we can accept the logic that they have the right to increase the internships precisely for the work or service in judicial responsibilities, therefore not in other professions, or in other services that this society knows. I would be happier than my colleague Chantic if Vlad had thought about it, perhaps it is not possible to do so today because we are all aware that we do not have a new budget, that we have only a temporary financing account and that it is therefore not possible to put all items in place and make a budget that will then show how much of the service financed from the state budget will be allocated. But I think it should also be directed that the Ministry of Justice, along with all of us colleagues and colleagues, should make an effort to accept maybe from one. 6 or no later than the end of the year and Article 5 of Article 7 to be adequately valued and paid for in relation to certain more judicial duties as well as Article 7 in order to adequately evaluate whether a judicial officer is going to a second place of service, therefore, whether he is sent to a service where a judicial officer is missing. If we want to improve efficiency, and to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, which I believe we all care about regardless of party membership and what we should have done long ago, if we want to show here our will to show both these material examples and material receipts that we care about judicial officials if we mainly want to do justice effectively where today, for various reasons, we know that Croatia and demographically, sociologically, where we lack judges today, then I think we should think that when judges are delegated or state lawyers, we should then delegate in some way and delegate their receipts according to what we expect from them, therefore, work in those areas where there are no judicial officials. Equally, I think that this will also contribute to greater competence in Croatia, unfortunately the sick lacks competence and in all areas of life not only in the judiciary, it is also in education, it exists in... And it really happens today that someone who has a higher attitude, more experience, and probably better jobs in his judicial work achieves than someone who is at the beginning of a career, that even because he has no relief on children has a lower salary than someone who is only at the beginning of a career. [[You don't understand the speaker.]] We must create a system of competence, and the other we must create a system of rewarding age or long-term participation in one of the state services. And I think, therefore, that we should also consider Article 5 and then, of course, Article 6 which, in some ways, is being corrected by this amendment. But I'd like to say in the end something else, something that's quite dimming for the judicial profession we haven't talked about at all, I'm sorry that I didn't have the opportunity to talk about the law before that, it's a fact, unfortunately, that the receipts of judges, their material rights that are most often mirrored and looked at, and perhaps in some ways express in the receipts that they are in a terriblely large discrimination with rights and with the material receipts of lawyers. If this society does not find a way and it seems to me that there is no will to do so now, that, in some way, the lawyers are not only a private profession but are both part of the public or part of the public service needed in cooperation with the courts, if we will not be able to influence the fact that the legal tariffs are less, if we fail to influence the procedural fact that certain cases in the court are not being conducted, then lawyers for each submission which would otherwise be able to end up in one dispute have 10 different hearings in order for each submission to be charged. We will practically not, we will not prevent our citizens from being exploited and paying expensive taxes, paying expensive legal services, and that will all decommittatingly affect judges who receive the salary of a state account, we all know what the salaries are. And on the other hand, they see a lawyer actually doing the same public service that's taking great sums. And I'm going to remind you ladies and gentlemen that it was published to me last year, that I don't know how high a percentage of lawyers at all at the end of the year in tax returns turn out to have no profit at all over the year. So we have to do something here, I know it's not the subject of the law, but it seems depreciating to the judges that rainy lawyers. And if we don't make it there, I don't, of course, advocate the social levelling of all services. It's a private service, but it's kind of a public service, and I think we should do something about it. So all in all HSLSA and DC will support this bill with this amendment because I think it still corrects the injustice and that this will allow for what the former government has failed to do. That for every year, an internship in a judicial, state-run lawyer or any other judicial duty is eventually recognised and expressed in the salary of judicial officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2462	Thank you very much, dear colleague Chehok. It is on behalf of the HSPa Club, a respected colleague of Kovacevic. Here's your colleague Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2463	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In the name of the Croatian party of law club, we must repeatedly point to one unseriousness in these proposals of the law that is passed by emergency procedure. And we have to and above all, I didn't expect the Minister of Justice to in this way essentially destroy the sovereignty of the government. Look what happened. On January 15, 2004, we received a proposal for a law with a final proposal that basically had one article or article on the other when it came into force. And look what's going on today means ten minutes before the maintenance we're getting amendments to the government that essentially change all that. Well, that's pretty unserious. If the ministers will not mean a state secretary who has been leading the dignity of the Croatian government, so we must be aware of these facts and hope that these things will not happen in the future. Because from this, it's obvious that a lot of unpreparedness has entered the whole story. And now look at these amendments and the part that was said in the original proposal from the Government the reasons why the law is passed and the questions that are being addressed by it. Now it has nothing to do with each other anymore with what's been proposed today. Watch out for one of the essential reasons is the following two facts. IF this was not resolved by the law on the implementation of the state budget for 2003, as the first important reason was the first important fact. The second is that it is not even foreseen in the decision on the temporary financing of the transactions and functions of the programme of state bodies and other beneficiaries of the state budget in the first quarter. That doesn't even hold water. Let's be realistic. The budget has yet to be reached. What are we talking about? Let's take care of it first and foremost, we expect the Justice Department not to blanche with such bad government proposals. And around the metrics itself, we are now finally glad that the material position of the judges has improved. How much he's fixed up about this part, although it's also likely to be a problem with his constitutional assessment whether it can only be tied to a judge if he's been working somewhere else before, okay. Or at least how much the situation has improved. It doesn't matter, but there you go. The step is taken further. But there's one thing that's forgotten. You know, these systems of values are from the former communist system, that's the past work, that's what all the countries have left. We have that pretty good not to say, phenomally processed in our program, so you can contact us at our disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2464	Thank you, colleague Kovacevic. On behalf of the SDP satellite club, respected colleague Slavko Linic. About the judge law. No, I don't. Wrong. Excuse me. We're moving on to an individual debate of ten minutes each. First of all, she's a colleague of Dear Zgrebec's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2465	Mr. Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, I've actually noticed at the last minute this amendment of the government that has arrived, so I'm going to first look back at this original text of narrowness. Then especially the amendment we got today. On this proposal, amends and a part of the law. For a long time, we have introduced the practice of introducing certain rights by law, and then, for the adoption of the country's budget for the current year of the budget law, we were able to have a dozen articles to exempt or suspend the payment of certain rights for that year for which the state budget is being passed. I'm glad that we gradually gave up on this practice, but that's what pays are about, or additional work hours for judges' salaries, we had such a restriction until 2003. Just when we discussed the implementation of the State Budget Act for 2003, we also made a special conclusion that we had obliged the Government to find opportunities to secure that part of the judges' salaries in the state budget. Since there was no such exemption when making a decision on temporary financing. I expected that, indeed, in the 2004 budget, we would also provide that additional amount of salary that would cover the work experience of judges and other judicial officials. That is why I accept the amendment that several colleagues and the Committee on Justice have submitted that this amount, respectively, is starting to be paid at 1.4.2004. So when the decision on temporary financing expires and the budget for this year is adopted. However, this amendment, which has now occurred, will not temporarily be paid for the additions which are regulated in Articles 5 and 7. The Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, which refers to an allowance paid by an official to the Deputy President of the Court, i.e. the Deputy Head of the Second Judicial Body or the Judge who performs the tasks of the President, or Head of the Department. And Article 7 says that if there is no, unless there is an adequate offer for the seats of judges after the ad, then someone will be able to redistribute these jobs to others and will have the right to compensation. Article 6 actually regulates the addition to the internship and 0.5% to each completed year of internship with a 20% limit. So the amendment regulates exactly this part of the salary allowance. So what happened now? Something happened that we've been suspending temporarily so far. So, all these years, we've said that in the current year, we won't pay for it. However, we are now permanently giving up that judges who have previously spent part of their work elsewhere on other jobs will never again be entitled to pay 0.5% a year of internships that they have spent outside the court. I don't think that's acceptable, if it wasn't good, and it would be good for the government to give up this amendment and accept amendments to make that payment as of 1.4.2004. This would actually be the right decision, and in the coming years it should provide pay for all those criteria as well as other employees in Croatia. And to this category of officials apply actually the provisions of the Labour Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2466	Thank you, dear colleague. It's time for a respected colleague, Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2467	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister. And I'm going to be like my colleague here a little while ago to look back on this particular provision. True, at the time I applied for this debate, I also wanted to discuss the original provision of Article 11 as proposed by the Government to the Parliament and to propose that the arguments given in the annex should be amended and that their right to judges, as of 1 April 2004, be restored in the previous three or four years, be denied. In fact, the very explanation states that the provisional budget does not allow judges to return this right from the law. But from the very explanation it is clear that the new Croatian government wants to return it to the judges and it was a great opportunity to do so in the adoption of the new budget and implement it. However, I agree with counterpart Anticevic, who said the proposed amendment shocked us all to a significant extent. What has been temporary and in the proposal that we are discussing today, what has been temporary in the term of office of the government in which I participated, in the mandate of the Parliament in which many of you participated, has become part of it, but it has become significantly permanent. It's unclear to me who that idea came to mind. What I can temporarily understand and understand is why the government is proposing. We know why we suggested it. But this is permanently completely unclear to me. I think it's even a little pretentious I might say and unconstitutional because every citizen, every employee in this country, has the right to what is most easily recognised by the public. Compensation on his salary, which he receives on the basis of his employment, based on past work. In the previous period, this right was denied only two categories of employees in Croatia. State officials who the whole public knows have some additional privileges and we have then estimated that because of the problem in the budget, because of the savings needed to be provided by the state administration that state officials also have to bear some kind of burden. Their salaries were reduced and temporarily denied the right to past work, to compensation for past work. The judges had a slightly different situation. Judges and state lawyers, meaning the judiciary, the judiciary, have a special law defined their wages. Their salaries are not at all what we would like to pay in Croatia, but in any case they are significantly higher than some other equally important and valuable professions. They are based on some other principles that we also support and in the inability, as we have reduced our salaries to the basic salaries of judges, it was only possible for fiscal reasons to suspend this right to past work. But we were aware from day one, so although someone might consider it hypocrisy, we were aware that it wasn't until the end okay. But this has been cited and forced by higher reasons - states, fiscal policies and all other costs to be financed from the budget. The judges didn't forgive us. He probably won't forgive, but maybe one day he'll understand. But permanent seduction, that's something I don't think we can and can't allow. In order to possibly not explain to you in the Parliament but to the Croatian public that we are not such hypocrites. I will state the argument that we were aware of the problem that we caused by the suspension of that right, that we wanted to be consistent long before the election of the then former justice minister asked when she proposed her budget costs, that through the 2004 budget, these amounts must be secured. And as you know, the election took place, we are today an opposition. The former minister sits in the Assembly and does not remain with her or the rest of us who, in full light, look at this measure to ask the Croatian Government to withdraw this amendment and to make sure that in the 2004 draft budget, it foresees and secures the amount for past work for the salaries of judges and state lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2468	Thank you, dear colleague Antunović. It's up to a respected colleague, Josipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2469	As much as I was in some way satisfied with the first law applicable to the judiciary, this is not only for principled reasons that this law is really inadmissible about a particular category of employees, even if they were also judicial, it is denying something that others who, if you want to be financed directly or indirectly from the state budget have, but also because I think that I don't mean those 0.5% but other expenditures, which threatens the implementation of those measures that we agreed on are positive and that they lead to the progress of the judiciary. I wouldn't be long. I gave the amendment I see, and I know that he accepted the Justice Committee, and I see that the SDP's Club amendment is similar, so what I had to say about it was contained in that amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2470	Thank you, dear colleague Josipovic. It's my dear colleague Drazen Bosnjakovic's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2471	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I must admit that I understand this law and these amendments as something temporary and I believe that this is just the beginning of this issue of judges' rights as a whole in Articles 5, 6 and 7 of this law. All of what colleagues said was that between 2000 and 2004, they were temporarily unable to accept as an argument because it simply lasted an entire election period. I think that this is the beginning of solving issues in general and that this actually corresponds to the means to which it is available. However, I believe that both the Government and the Ministry, and we as MPs, too, will personally argue that in the future we are respecting all the rights set out in Articles 5, 6 and 7 of this law and I therefore consider this law to be a very good start and I will give him confidence, I will vote for this law, but I will advocate that these rights are truly respected in these four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2472	Please, nice. It's my dear fellow Stazic's turn. Here's my colleague, Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his voice on this subject. That's how we exhausted the registered list of candidates for this topic's speech. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. The word has been made by the Minister of Justice, Mrs Vesna Skare-Ozbolt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2473	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I see that this was a shock to some when they got these amendments on the table. I mean, when it comes to paying for the internship, we still need to leave all our political differences and some words that act really as political hypocrisy aside, I don't think it really matters, so important, and I apologize that this amendment came to the table 15 minutes before the debate on this legislative proposal started, but I don't think the time of arrival of the amendment is as important as the fact that we still managed to find the money that 0.5% for each year of the judicial internship is worth it. This is certainly a temporary decision, not a permanent decision, and it will apply to 2004. I must remind colleagues of the fact that on the day of entry into force of this law, an addition to a judicial internship is beginning to be paid. So I repeat this is not a permanent decision, this is a temporary decision, so a decision that will be valid for 2004. Of course, the government is not satisfied with this solution either, it would be best if it could provide all 60 million, however, compared to what has become all these years, so it has not been worth all these years of internship, so 0.5% for each year of internship, yet you will admit that this is progress and an important relief in the work of judicial officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2474	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2475	Ms. Minister incorrectly said that this is a temporary measure, a decision, because as far as Amendment 2 is concerned, it is not temporary and does not apply for 2004, but is applied permanently until possibly some change of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2476	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the Payments of Judges and other Judicial Officers, emergency procedure. The debate on the text is over. The amendments were submitted by the Government, the Legislative Committee, the SDP Representatives' Club, MP Ivo Josipovic and the Justice Committee. I'm asking the Secretary of State to come forward with the amendments. Let's go first to the amendment to the government which is now becoming a part of the Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2478	Mr. President, since the amendment of the government has become an integral part of this text of the Law, the Government does not accept amendments submitted by the Justice Committee, the SDP Representatives' Club and MP Ivo Josipovic. Namely, these representatives are identical content, and they are proposed to apply all fees prescribed by law, amendments and additions to the law on the rights of judges and other judicial officials, so Articles 5, 6 and 7 apply from the beginning of 1 April 2004. Already in the reasoning of the text of the Law, the Government said that the additional effort estimated that only partly at the moment can be put in place, i.e. to allow judges to make some of the fees that they are legally entitled to, that is... fees relating to the internship, supplement of the internship 0.5%... [[You don't understand.]] in the judiciary and they would be applied from the date of entry into force of this Act. [[You don't understand.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia has no more funds at this time to pay all fees prescribed by law... have the right at this time to enable in fulfilling their fullness. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2479	Thank you very much. Now I need to ask for an indication of the applicant for the amendment. There's four of them. First we have the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2480	The Committee on Legislatives Government otherwise accepts the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives he is nomotechnical in nature, fourth, but he will... text is likely to experience changes again. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2481	SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2482	We demand a vote on that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2483	Please, who is for this amendment to the Club of Representatives of the SDP that the government does not accept? Thank you, he didn't get the necessary majority. Is that what these other amendments are all about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2484	Yes, I think so. The amendment is identical, but I don't think there's any need to vote then.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-01-30-0.u2485	I think they're consummated with the vote and the other two amendments. Is there another amendment? I am voting on the final draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials. Who's up for this bill? Thank you. Against? Abstained? I find that, with 78 votes in favour, 22 against and 27 abstentions, this Law has been passed with the amendments as proposed. The next item is the Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the Vice Advocate-General for Gender Equality of the Proposal for a Decision by the Advocate-General for Gender Equality. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the report at the session. Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate.
