ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28604	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and counsellors. In front of you, the Final Proposal for the Law on International Restriction Measures was adopted at the cabinet meeting on 25 November. The motive of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the adoption of this Act is the fact that there is no law governing the implementation, the abolition of international restrictive measures in the Republic of Croatia in the legal system. Such a law is part of the legal gains of the so-called so-called law. the acquis communautaire of the European Union and, therefore, in accordance with the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union as well as part of the obligations and Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to adopt such a law. The proposed Law, the draft before you, is the result of the common position of all members of the working group established by the Government, which was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, European Integration, Internal Affairs, Defence, Finance, and the labour and entrepreneurship economies. Therefore, during the course of the work of this Inter-resor working group, restrictive measures under the very name of the Law and the content of the Law have been found to be a broader concept of both economic sanctions and diplomatic sanctions and various other forms of legal protection of the European Union, i.e. a member of the European Union, I would say simpler and internal legal protection of the Union, i.e. physical and legal entities of the Union. Therefore, the reasons for introducing or abolishing restrictive measures can be the implementation of internationally legally binding decisions of the United Nations. Then joining the restrictive measures of other international organisations, certain other cases in accordance with international law, and as mentioned in the implementation of the measures taken under the Common Foreign and Security Policy of the European Union. According to the draft, i.e. under the proposed Act, international restrictive measures may include a whole range of measures and decisions including interruptions of diplomatic relations, a complete or partial interruption of economic relations, i.e. various forms of economic sanctions, as well as various forms of interruption of communication, and other measures in accordance with international law. The decision to introduce the following draft laws and after the eventual adoption of the law, the decision to introduce such measures, their kind, nature, method of implementation and abolition shall be taken by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In short, the draft bill in question is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the legal acts of the Council of Europe, it is part of the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union and is proposed to adopt this law precisely because, according to the dynamics of the implementation of the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union, our legislation must be harmonised with the regulations of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28605	Do the committee's rapporteurs want a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Croatian Democratic Community Representatives' Club, Honored Representative Emil Tomljanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28606	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. I would also like to point out that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the final proposal of the Law on International Restrictive Measures, hence the rules harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, as well as the legal gains of the European Union as well as the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The part of the obligations arising from the 2004 European Commission's 2004 obligations to comply with legislation in the next medium term are also met. The concept of administrative capacity to implement restrictive measures here indeed arises as a necessity, the effectiveness of implementation on the one hand of common security and, on the other hand, the common foreign policy of the Member States of the European Union. The relevant administrative capacity should be understood as the overall and coordinated action of the state administration body in implementing international organisational measures, and all in terms of joint and coordinated actions towards international legal entities that arise in principle in two situations. Therefore, when it comes to international legally binding decisions of the United Nations and other situations concerning the accession of the Republic of Croatia to restrictive measures by other international organisations, but also in other cases in accordance with international law. International restrictive measures, therefore, apply in situations of harsh breach of international obligations or decisions by international institutions, and in a word of content, constitute an interruption of diplomatic relations, a complete or partial interruption of economic relations, a complete or partial interruption of rail maritime, air, postal and other communications and other measures in accordance with international law. It should also be pointed out that these measures are being implemented, but they are being abolished strictly by applying the provisions of international law. The circle of entities to which they can be introduced, implemented and thus abolished the measures in question is broad and can be, therefore, that circle of state entities as an internationally recognised state of international organisation, territorial entities, movements, natural and legal persons and other entities covered by concrete restrictive or restrictive measures. It should be noted that the law in question clearly defines the authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that Article 4 in such a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia makes a decision on the introduction of international restrictive measures. It shall then take a decision on the type of measure and how to implement it. The Government of the Republic of Croatia is also making a decision to abolish concrete measures. Subject law also introduces a separate institution called the so-called "Special Law". Interresor groups considered as monitoring bodies for the implementation of international restrictive measures and that body is established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This Law should also be taken absolutely as a normative basis so that the total taking of state administration bodies could be properly prepared and prepared for the implementation of very important laws which are as directly as possible, which, indirectly in terms of application, may appear as the application of certain restrictive measures. I'm pointing out the following regulations here. The Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office Act, the Law on the Movement of Stays of Foreigners, the Law on Production and Transport and Trade in Arms and Military Equipment, and regulations are also very important, for example, the Regulation on the determination of goods exported and imported on the basis of licences as well as the Regulation on the control of imports and exports, for example unprocessed diamonds. Finally, this Law is an integral part of the national programme of harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the regulations of the European Union. Therefore, and from the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community proposes the adoption of this regulation by an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28607	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Ivo Josipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28608	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a Lapidary Law that has its clear political background and I think we can all support it, so it is about Croatia creating a legal basis to join those measures that the international community to which Croatia belongs and should carry out especially in preventing such evils as terrorism and others. However, this Law has its other face because of its lapidarity. The other person is that when we look at which circle of persons of legal, physical or entity can be hit by these sanctions, individuals are also listed, so citizens of individuals. You know that there are also Croatian citizens and individuals who are or will be hit by these measures and that is something we must naturally be prepared for. However, the Law also lists measures, but only those which are normally implemented against states and different entities, but there is not a single measure that is being implemented against individuals. If we look at some of the instruments that the European Union has brought just about and for some Croatian citizens, then we see that these measures are specific and that there is a certain way of legal protection for individuals. Unfortunately, this Law does not know such a thing, and it is not good in that part, for under a) it does not foresee any concrete measures, so against individuals so that they can be known in advance and expect what measures they can hit. And under b) this law does not foresee any protection mechanisms, but simply puts the Government in the hands of any decision in which any and legal instrument that would potentially protect individuals' rights is not foreseen. It seems problematic to me from the point of view of constitutionality that an individual against such acts does not have any legal protection. The proposal is the SDP's Club of Representatives, of course, that such a law is going through, but it might be wise not to rush into an emergency procedure and think a little bit about these instruments so that we don't have problems with constitutional issues tomorrow, so that before the countries of the European Union that have a similar system of measures have introduced it into their legal system through those instruments that bind them to the European Union. We don't have such instruments yet, unfortunately. We may have them very soon, but we don't have them right now. Here, therefore, the proposal is to go with such a law, to support the initiative but we suggest that we consider perhaps one addition of the law in which protection mechanisms would be installed, especially in relation to the constitutional rights of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28609	Thank you. Does Secretary of State Hidajet Biscevic want to give a final review? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28610	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Representatives and MPs! There is one aspect of this law that has not been mentioned so far, and it is partly about what Mr. Representative Josipovic was talking about. In addition to this, the law to say legal protection, external and internal legal protection of the Union, and in addition to being the resultant of the legal gains of the European Union as regards activities in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it will enable the coordinated action of various bodies of the state administration which so far have acted in a very different way in a different way, or with different grounds and enables it to control and prevent money laundering in a uniform way, to coordinate and implement the protection of collected archive and other information, it allows for a different relationship, a more coherent act and the Office for the fight against corruption of organised crime, movement and the stay of foreigners to be regulated. So it's about one whole approach to this matter. The fact is that, as the representative mentioned, the decision to introduce measures from the area or domain of this law, the way they were applied, the type of application, the implementation and abolition of those measures was left to the Government. It is, if I understand correctly, also in line with the national legislation of the Member States of the European Union as soon as the negotiations are completed and we hope that they will soon begin and be harmonised in the Republic and with the national legislation of the Republic of Croatia. As regards the urgency of the procedure, it stems from the already adopted National Programme of the Republic of Croatia to join the European Union. The National Programme, as you know the dynamics of the adoption of certain laws, was set almost a year ago, and this is a key motive for preparing as soon as possible negotiations with the European Union and for the speedy harmonisation of our legislation with Union legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28611	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on International restrictive measures, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 213. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 78 votes for and 3 against the law was passed by international restrictive measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28615	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I apologize again, I was on the Legislative Committee, and that's where it all went together. As far as the Air Protection Act is concerned, you all know that a Law on Air Protection which is clear in 95, can no longer survive because new European Union directives have been adopted and so has much happened in the meantime. In fact, existing ones, as I said, have been replaced by new ones, new legal instruments have been adopted. Changes in the area of air protection regulation have occurred, and a series of regulations have also been adopted and a series of conventions have been signed, such as the Montreal Protocol and the like. That is why we had to make a new Air Protection Act that is in line with the 13 Directives of the European Commission and based on it we have established all of these, based on these directives we have established all of these articles that we are proposing in this Law. The most important thing is that we have settled the fundamental objectives of air protection and improvement, the planning documents must be brought to the state level, at the level of the county and at the level of local self-government counties. As far as the state is concerned, we must bring in a strategy for air protection, but we must also bring in a programme with accurate carriers and with a deadline for the implementation of certain tasks. We are close to the Waste Management Strategy and we are also working on the Air Protection Strategy and on one and another strategy you will discuss I mean at the first session after the spring session. Then we established one of the essential points that has not been sufficiently elaborated so far and has not been in line with the directives, that is, it is, public participation in the adoption of all documents of protection, all documents relating to air protection and also to improving air quality. Then we also set out in this Law measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, how to monitor and determine air quality. As you know every year, two to three air quality control stations have air quality control and display at these stations where our citizens can also monitor every day the air pollution situation in their area and clearly put those cells where the air is at risk. In those areas of Croatia where air is not threatened clearly, neither should it be set up. Then we made a special, special head on monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. You probably all remember that we talked about the problems of the agreement and the “Kyoto” agreement. If there were a big conference in Bueno Sauires in 12 months now, all the countries of the world that should be raising that threshold for us, and by all accounts, we have been lobbying everywhere so far to make that happen because if that doesn't happen, Croatia will have big, big problems. We hope that we can do it, we can do it, and, well, that's where I'm going to ask you if you can do it with any ambassadors, foreign countries or anything like that, I'm going to agree to let them try to let us go anyway. Then we found and did business, who can do business in all these segments and all that, the information system that is particularly important to us, we included the Environmental Protection Agency that has not been involved so far, and now we've done the same thing in a way that we've brought new people and that they're actually collecting all the data now, and they're determining with that data, and then they're going to be able to inform both the public and all those who are interested in it. Now, the reason for the urgent procedure, you know, we have to comply with these European directives. I think we've covered everything now, but now there's a clear need to create all sublegal acts that must once again comply with the directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28616	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? Legislative? European integration? A spacious arrangement and protection of the environment? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, respected representative Marko Širac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28617	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for an air protection law shall coordinate the area of air protection with the directives of the European Union covering the area, which shall primarily assess and manage air quality, emissions and source and product quality. In addition, the Law ensures public participation in the implementation of the Law and the obligation of the competent authorities to report to the public on air quality and air emissions. The draft air protection law is in line with the provisions of the Directive so that, under its structure, the framework law governing air quality management is in accordance with Directive 66.66 of the European Community and with the implementing rules to be laid down by the proposal for a law, the other Directives will be regulated. This will complete the process of harmonising Croatian regulations in the area of air protection with the acquis of the European Union. In the Law, the proposal for a new law regulates the fundamental objectives of protecting and improving air to avoid, prevent or reduce the adverse effects on human health, quality of life, the environment as a whole. Issues on the adoption of planning documents at national and local level are also being addressed. The reporting obligation and the public shall be governed by a critical level of air pollution. The concept of demarcation of the territory of the State is introduced by means of an assessment of air quality and following measurements and determination of the level of pollution of the area, the areas are classified as air quality categories. For the first time in the Law, the obligations under international contracts of which the Republic of Croatia is party are governed. Treatment of substances that damage the ozone layer and products containing or produced by such substances and the treatment of substances after the end of use of the product shall be the means of collection, recycled and permanent disposal of these substances. The implementation of the Climate Change Convention sets out the obligations to monitor greenhouse gas emissions by sources and substances, the adoption of a national plan for the distribution of greenhouse gas emission quotas by activity and sources of air pollution. The award procedure for the quality of individual legal and natural persons shall be laid down. It then measures the joint investment of capital in the development and use of technologies that prevent and reduce pollution affecting climate change. An obligation shall be imposed on legal persons to carry out air quality monitoring and air emissions operations. After that, the provision of faster, relevant and reliable information on air quality shall be determined by professional activities to be carried out by the Ministry, where appropriate, by the Environment Protection Agency. Financial penalties shall be imposed on legal and natural persons and units of local and regional self-government for infringements established by this law. The proposal for an air protection law reduces certain obligations for units of local and regional self-government in such a way as to establish a local air quality monitoring network where the level of pollution is higher than the limit values and that cities and municipalities are obliged to develop a programme of measures to reduce air pollution if the air is excessively polluted or if air quality is third category. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28618	Thank you very much. HSS representative club, respected representative Zeljko Ledinski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28619	Dear Mr. President, dear Minister, let me speak a few words on behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club about this Air Protection Act. First of all, I would like to say that the Croatian Peasant Party supports the adoption of the Air Protection Act, which is necessary not only to bring us into line with the European Union but also to provide for future processes that can take place with us. It is clear that the positive consequence of the law-making is announced by ensuring the compatibility of air protection in Croatia with the air protection of European Union countries. It is high time for us to recognize ourselves that the developed Europe and the world seriously exploited their nature and air and put its balance at risk. Croatia is actually one of the last islands today, an oasis, I would say preserved and large biodiversity. It is also important to know that many global levels of the process within a certain, I would call it a loose globalised economy are incompatible with the popular sustainable development wing and the ability to build a future. Therefore, commitment to the eco-social market economy becomes the only framework that allows us to be sustainable in the use and ability to develop for the future. This is particularly important, and in this Law, it is pointed out that all the measures that have been prescribed in the European Union so far, we, I think, have mostly tried to follow them and we have tried to respect them. This law even on air protection is even to say in some measures predictable and slightly more free for our concepts compared to, in existing measures, which is certainly good. But what I'd like to point out here is that we ourselves, through some measures, have to help ourselves to make some of the processes that are now with us because we didn't have a developed industry, which are not practically our nature so polluted, that our air isn't so polluted that we don't prevent ourselves from developing any more quality. Because today you're looking at Europe, it's practically with its development and with air pollution and everything, they've already come practically I'd say to the max. And now that we're sharing with us, then according to this law, it turns out that in rural areas we won't be able to develop any ordinary ones, I'd say such jobs as opposed to being limited that we can't increase the emissions there into the environment. When we compare this law to our energy strategy, then we must also say that we have failed to put some elements into strategy, energy strategies. For example, the use of bioenergy is foreseen in the energy strategy only after 2015. Instead of enabling us to encourage the use of these renewable sources that also reduce pollution and CO2 emissions into the air and thus enable us to move forward as soon as possible, to encourage the introduction of such energy as quickly as possible. When we talk about these measures in this section, then I would point out that we have worked out the adoption of these measures here in the law, divided them, but it seems to me that we haven't provided enough resources. When we look at the article 61 that speaks of incentives, economic incentives, then I would point out this is well foreseen to prescribe tax exemptions, profit taxes according to specific regulations. But I would say not if they could, but if they had to, I would have to install a word to stimulate certain entities to build and protect, as well as to use renewable energy sources. I will give an example that my company "Croatian Forests" where I worked, so far worked on the example of Ogulin, Gospić, where we made two energy companies using wood, that waste material for energy production, which is also a far less polluter than some other types of fuel used there. So I would like it to be possible through special regulations to install certain incentives then others would probably find stimulant and not build gas pipelines, I don't know, for Lika or for some other parts where there's some kind of energy that people have used and dealt with so far. So that, with such measures, we could then encourage the introduction and use of non-polluting energy and in combination with some of the energies of others that reduce special air pollution. It is also mentioned in the developed measures that are at the state level, measures that are at the local level, but unfortunately everywhere it is said that this will be financed from the budget of local self-government, but it is obvious that in local budgets we know that there are no funds and are not envisaged and that in that part, if we want to reach an example of Austria that already has 2000 energy to, to renewable sources, to wood and to others, let's say one Finland that has something less, and I would point out why they have suddenly grown in the last few years to such energy sources. Exactly because of the incentive measures they had embedded in their laws. The incentives in Austria were as much as 45% at the start. Now there's about 32% for those who raise the energanes to the tree or the rest of the tree. 31% if we could introduce, I believe, that then we would also mitize the higher number of substances that would build their own nuclear power plants, and in this way there would be a significant reduction in emissions in the air. In that part, I would like to say that we are in this at least an article where you only look at the whole law and only in two rows three practically talk about this article 61 on incentives and criminal provisions and others are mentioned on the website. I would therefore like it if we had broken that law to a lot of detail that we had already foreseen such encouraging measures. And I also think it would be useful for the state budget to make more and more resources available every year for state-level incentive measures that is for the first category. Which is our obligation because the limit values for this category of emissions are prescribed by the Government. A good part of the regulation is also listed and regulated that after special regulations, the ministry will regulate what is similar in the law on nature protection. Because I don't think it's a good idea to leave everything to some implementing rules, which can often change the structure of the law later on. And here even left a lot of time for a year, a year and a half even for some regulations that have to be passed I think it's too long for a year and a half, for a local example, for a city level, county. Too long a period during which these regulations must be laid down. No matter what we will not enter the European Union by then. But I think that the adjustment and just the implementation of this whole process must be done significantly faster so that we don't expect to see that last minute we have something else to do. Or that he objected to us that we didn't do it in time. Here's to short. To conclude, the HSS assesses the need for this law to be passed. We even appreciate the urgency of the procedure. But since the measures prescribed by the session over a year and a half, I think we could have done that in a regular procedure. Maybe then install some of the measures that are possible. And especially because we have to be aware that by passing this law, practically in rural areas, we'll be able to just base ourselves on some kind of eco-production. And that we won't be able to count on some industrial production, because we'll practically be limited to these regulations. I would also like to see more articles mentioned in this forest law, because we know what is important in the forest and especially in our country because we have preserved forests, then only one article is mentioned. While the environmental protection agency mentions in a dozen articles, it seems to me that we just made regulations about what the agency has to do to have a job. Here's so much from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28620	Thank you. SDP club respected representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28621	Mr. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDPs will support the proposed air protection law. I would like to say that this proposal and the reasoning of this proposal show how dynamic the area of legal air protection in Europe is. Since our latest law dates back to 95 and has been in line with the European regulations of 94 and the proposed text of the law shows a number of news. It is coordinated with 13 new directives in the European Union, all showing that the European Union has been active in this area for the last ten years. So we appreciate that the proposed text and this completely new text is in line with the European directives and on the other hand, it has turned slowly to Croatia to address this problem. What we can say when I talk about this text, it is evident that especially Croatian citizens will be interested in this law, and especially in the implementation and application of this law, because the conditions of life, safety and health of Croatian citizens will be improved and thus the state and units of local self-government will show their responsibility in air quality control. Of course, there remains a fundamental problem and that is the issue of the economy. Because this is a new commitment to new difficulties for the Croatian economy. The Croatian economy, which is otherwise rated as an economy with a lot of technological problems, technological lags. And that's why I'd say new investment costs in technology that will protect negative emissions in the air. Thus, the competitive capacity of the Croatian economy will be somewhat weaker in the first years. For the reason that these are new burdens of costing their products and services is the problem of their less competitive abilities. But when we talk about macroeconomic and especially long-term forecasts it is evident that new technologies will also affect structural changes in these companies, and therefore I would say in the future, on a better competitive capacity. On the other hand, and a loyal match on the European market. The SDP estimates that the quality of this proposal before us is also because we see a strong share of the state and the authorities of the state administration in control and control. But that's what we're really looking forward to. It's also a transfer and obligation. I would also say powers to local self-government units that should also have their share and their responsibility in this surveillance and control. And we think that a pretty good proposal for a new law is balanced by this division of accountability and I would say the rights between the state and the units of local self-government. How specificities of this law are, however, on the necessary investment in the protection of air improvement, then I'm going to stay a little bit longer in that part. It is also evident that an important environmental protection strategy that will specifically address the quality of liquid oil fuels, gasification, heat in populated areas is important. And that's what you'd talk about more. We are all aware that in the last 8 years we have not repeatedly allowed our national company INI to produce liquid oil fuels that are not in line with European standards. And that this really puts emissions negative in the air above European standards at risk both human health and nature. It is evident that with the change in business policy in INA in recent years, the results of business as well as the ability to invest and invest, but also the privatisation of 25% of shares in INA also means the possibility to turn to new technological solutions in INA, which will, as soon as possible, tie them to the quality obligations, European quality of liquid oil fuels. It is evident that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must change its policy and must insist on implementing a medium-term INA development programme, in which the medium-term programme is very clearly indicated short-term investment in the restoration of refinery facilities, both in Rijeka and Sisak. In a very short time. And it should be put into priority in Croatian plants, not in sources related to the exploitation of oil to Syria or beyond the borders of Croatia. And this should no longer have much understanding, should not delay the implementation of the INA medium-term development programme, because this is very important for the competitiveness of the INA, but as we see and to ensure the implementation of this law, and I would say protecting the health of our citizens and protecting nature. I believe that this transition period is unnecessary for INA and that we really need to insist on carrying out these investments. When we talk about primary and secondary measures in the industry, then I still have to play a really important role in quality judgments of transitional periods. We know that in the last 10 years the biggest problems we've had in the processing industry, that we have a decline in the processing industry, that we have very difficult problems in the processing industry. Unfortunately, the growing number of employees in the industry, and it is still important for Croatia's macro-economic policy to be placed on the domestic market in order to reduce imports, but also in export to secure major inflows of foreign exchanges. And apparently, a branch that itself has not completed consolidation, structural change and still does not have enough positive results to invest in energy needs huge aid from the state. And it is certain that, in addition to transitional periods, specific financing programmes will be needed in order to enable these industrial facilities to develop new technologies or protect existing emissions in the air and reduce existing emissions. Therefore, a very sensitive programme where both state and administration must be present. And that is why it is very important to have an environment strategy where we need to see which financial measures to help industry remain competitive and not feel the impact of the necessary investment in new technologies, and I would say impact on the protection of negative emissions in the air. Therefore, as much as we must be very energetic towards some monopolies, such as INA, whether they have these opportunities, so much towards the processing industry that is needed for Croatia to be stronger, we must have active programmes and transitional periods, but also the provision of necessary technologies and protection to make it easier for the economy to enter that part and to have a stronger trust of bankers, if they are behind them, the government programme. Another very important fact. We know that in Croatia we have not solved the problem of gas, that in winter there is always a problem of gas, that unfortunately heat is not turned towards gas, that a good part of Croatia, which is the whole coast, has no gas. It's all a signal that guides us we simply need to estimate how much gas as energy we can provide quality air, energy that will protect that air and how fast we must move into these investments. And we're clearly a country with gas in the Adriatic. This gas must lead to consumers, thus the quality of implementation of this law will also be very high. Therefore, we are assessing that in the Government's programmes that will talk about the financial resources to be directed from the state level in order to carry out supervision under this law with success, I think that the gasification battle will be one of the important factors, and it is our suggestion that although the Ministry of Environment will in some way not design these programmes directly, we expect it to be the Ministry of Economy, that the Ministry of Environment should still throw an emphasis on a gas-intrusive source of energy that will have a significant impact on the quality of air, and I would say that by doing so and following the standards by which we will be acceptable in the European Union. Surely the activities of the Ministry of Environmental Protection that are struggling to change the existing size in the control of greenhouse gases are important for our economy. And I think that in these activities all the strengths in Croatia should contribute. The years of war in Croatia have diminished economic and economic activity. Thus determined sizes obviously for Croatia, which will still have stronger economic activity tomorrow, are not enough. It won't be good if we have to shop, buy the amount of these shows. By doing so, we will burden ourselves with the price of our products, the price of our economy. And that is why a huge effort by the Croatian government, diplomatic factors, policies, simple and non-governmental institutions, is needed, the battle that our economy has the right to more important activities and to fight for quality representation in the European market. I end up once again with the note that the SDP will support this law, that we agree with the law, but unfortunately we will not be present at the vote for falsifying the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28622	None of them were there, a colleague of Linic's falsifying the results. What you're going to be or not at the vote, that's your business. Dear Representative Perica Bukic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28623	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Minister. I support, of course, every concern for environmental protection, and I think that this is important today, for Croatia in particular, although we are lucky that Croatia is not a more polluter in the region, and since we know that cross-border pollution is possible and far-reaching and that concern has been kept since 79th, and I am glad that we can say that in a country that has signed all international conventions concerning this area, so in that part of the accession to international documents we are leading, but I am sorry and I am not clear why it has been missed for so many years and the legislation has not been updated, and in the past four years in this area and I therefore see this law as one basis from which it will create a number of others, and in particular the implementing rules that will then make it easier for those to act. I come fortunately from the county which already has some of these articles of the law and consumed. So, where there are certain correlations between certain occurrences in nature and possible air pollution, such monitors exist, therefore, in the Koprivnica-Crissyva County, in cooperation with the Institute of Public Health and Continuity, the County Assembly is reported on the state of the air, especially in the area where the large exploitation fields of gas are and, of course, where I repeat, certain changes in crops that have been monitored and which have not been found to be from that source, but are still being monitored. However, what I want to say is that, and everything is related to one another, so to speak, this next law that comes, the Waste Management Act, or waste, because inadequate waste management also pollutes the air, so there will be a number of problems in education, so our population in the future in relation to the environment, and that is the area where all these inspection services will have to monitor it. Because we can make the rules we want and all the honors we want, but by looking at the consciousness of some of our entrepreneurs, you're getting into a situation so that he gets permits and provides concrete legal conditions, but then in life he does it quite differently. In particular, someone gets a license for the laundromat, but it's flattering because it's nicer to do it out in summer, it's working on the open which we know is strictly forbidden, so it pollutes its micro-environment. We have a flood of sawmills in Croatia where they of course did not find a way to take care of the sawdust, so it is also polluting the air in the open day and night. So I just want to point out and support this law, the following implementation problems, but I hope that we will all be up to each other to follow not only regulations but also their lifesaving in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28624	Thank you. Dear representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28625	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that complies with 13 European Union directives, a law which comprehensively and thoroughly processed air protection against the development of air quality plans, air quality monitoring and determination of air quality, emissions and emission sources, measures to prevent and reduce air pollution, air quality information system, financing and ultimately administrative control. This bill regulates, among other things, the planning documents at national and local level, public participation in the adoption of a document on air quality that I consider to be very important. Obligation to report to the public on air quality and air emissions. Monitoring, monitoring and determination of air quality at national and local level. The method of verifying the quality of measurement and data in accordance with the requirements of European standards, etc. In order to effectively implement and implement this law, and thus to achieve the best air quality results, I keep very important that the technical bases are prepared to develop an environmental protection strategy, and priorities are identified for the protection and improvement of air quality, which are to improve the quality of liquid petroleum products, fuels in accordance with European directives, international contracts. The application of primary and secondary measures in industry and energy installations and the application of best available techniques to achieve emission limit values according to European directives. Improving the organisation of transport and transport structures and better technical equipment of the vehicle, gasification and toplification of populated areas. Building capacity for implementing measures in accordance with the obligations set out in the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the establishment of air quality monitoring for the proper management of external air. Of course, these measures are not expected to be implemented immediately, but it is certainly important to point out that the objectives, methods and means for their implementation have been established. I also consider it important that the air protection strategy assesses the level of costs of implementing air quality protection and improvement measures, so that illustrations are listed two of the largest economic operators in Croatia, which are also air pollutants, HEP and INA, which, in order to protect and improve air quality, need to provide an average of one billion and 200 million kuna annually in the period until 2008. The budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2005 to 2007 has planned an amount of around 20 million kuna for the implementation of all activities necessary for the protection and improvement of air quality. It is therefore necessary to adopt implementing rules, to build a national network for the suffering of air quality, to establish a national programme for the assessment and adaptation of climate change and to mitigate the consequences of climate change, etc. The CARDS 2004 and PHARE programmes also provide additional resources to establish part of the state air quality monitoring network. This proposal of the Air Protection Act, unlike the applicable law, reduces the obligations of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in such a way that the local air quality monitoring network is established only where the level of pollution is higher than the limit values. Cities and municipalities are also obliged to develop a programme of measures to reduce air pollution only if the air is excessively polluted. It agrees with his colleague, Ledinski, that in Article 61 of the "Economic Initiatives" Chapter, where he says that to invest in a plant treatment plant that uses technology, raw materials and production processes, less adverse effects on air quality than other related production processes of renewable energy technology used cannot but must be prescribed tax exemptions on profits and income taxes under specific regulations. For the implementation of this law, I hold very important that the central authorities of the state administration and the administration offices of the county ensure the implementation of administrative and technical tasks to protect and improve air quality, but no less important, I also hold and associate citizens with a professional air protection association that will certainly contribute to the achievement of the air quality objectives of its activities. I would point out that it is necessary to adopt regulations that will fully define the implementation of the law from measurement to interpretation of results as soon as possible. Finally, I would say that I hope that this law will be adopted by consensus, which could be seen from exposure, precisely because of its importance for the preservation of human health, plant and animal life, for the development of tourism as the primary economic branch, for the preservation of cultural and material values and for the protection of the environment in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28626	Thank you very much. I am reporting that the chairman of the Legislative Committee has scheduled a session today at 11 o'clock at the Josip Jelacic Hall. Dear Representative Miljenko Doric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28627	Mr. President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club, the PGS will support this Law and we are extremely pleased to install these 13 directives into our legislation. It is especially good that from now on, the public will have full access to all air quality data, but I agree with a colleague who just spoke. And in my county, and hopefully in many other counties already and now such data has been made available to our citizens, which is for every praise and I think this will only make the clear thing even better solved. However, what I'd like to underline here are two details that we didn't seem to have thought enough, and I suggest that we make significant moves in our work technology in the future. In fact, this whole package of laws we're working on this week is largely related to local and regional self-government, which will be largely in charge of implementing which, especially monitoring and many other elements in connection with this. That is why it would be good for us in Parliament to make one move forward. In our committee for, unfortunately, the president's here busy so he won't listen to me. Mr. President, here's what I'm waiting for just because I'm talking to you right now. My request is, given the importance of these laws, given that we need to include local and regional self-government in this story, related to the whole package of laws that we are making this week, but many of which are going to bring about where we are harmonising our legislation with the European one, I think it would be good for our Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government to consider these laws, to get to know both the Croatian County and the Union of Cities and in some way and only the Ministry to come up with a quick release of information. And even in the phase of law-making, not always being all post-festum because we insult them a little bit if we give them new directives, new human rights, new programming obligations, new financial obligations, and not inform them in advance. I therefore believe that we must do much more in this communication before adopting such laws, which will certainly be accepted correctly by local and regional self-government. The second element I want to underline is related to my intervention last night with regard to the National High Education Council. We can see from higher education that these laws clearly introduce a series of newspapers, a series of new standards. Do we have personnel who are able to clearly monitor all these innovations, all these newspapers, all that monitoring that will have to be done and all the new technologies, many of which we have to apply. Certainly the answer is no. It is therefore very important that our Ministry for, from Madam Minister, also clearly, but in the transfer of this information to the Ministry of Education that, in principle and through cooperation especially with the Zagreb and Rijeka universities, where staffs such as graduate sanitary engineers are educated, which I believe will be the bearers of a large part of this job, that these contents are installed immediately in educational programmes, with a clear aim of producing tomorrow when we are able to deal with these jobs, and we will have to make sure that the current clear staff is educated. And it should also systematically do so through professional training, which through postgraduate studies. So I'm saying, this is one whole network that we have to build, toss if we think the laws are being properly implemented in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28628	Thank you very much. Does the Minister want it? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Air Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z.E. No. 209. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was filed by the HSS Representatives' Club. I ask Minister Marina Matulovic-Dropulic to plead on the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28630	This amendment is not accepted. We have established by law the possibility of obtaining tax reliefs for environmentally-acceptable technologies and tax legislation prescribes the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance to decide on tax relief.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28631	Thank you. Since there is no representative, please vote. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. To vote. The result? I find that, with 76 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law on Air Protection in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer. - Final proposal of the Waste Act, emergency procedure, P.Z.E. No. 208. Proposer of the Government, amendments can be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, European Integration, Spatial Regulation and Environmental Protection and the Committee on the Economy. You've received reports. I ask the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, Ms Marina Matulović-Dropulić, to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28633	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. There are two important reasons why we decided to make a new Waste Act, regardless of what was passed last year by the Waste Act that began to apply in 1.1 this year. In fact, we have received a request from the European Commission, so one reason is that we have received a request to comply with directives that have so far failed to comply with the Law. Hence, this is one of the reasons why this Law must go by emergency procedure. What is particularly important to us is the reason that we have conducted an analysis of the situation in the entire area of our country. Based on this analysis, we have found that the situation in waste, as far as environmental science is concerned, is the most difficult situation in Croatia and that we need to take urgent measures. That's why, as you know, the Ministry and the Environmental Protection Fund have called a competition. We have already joined 33 dumps in Croatia and agreed 330 million kuna with local self-government units. So far, the state has never been involved in financing the dump, and here, this is the first time, and I think it's a good way to keep going. All those who responded to the first competition had an environmental impact study and a location permit, therefore, there was no problem in giving them certain funds to complete the project documentation and to start with the recovery. What we have also called for is 160 units of local self-government that will be re-evaluated and evaluated by the same criteria. So all those who have spatial plans for these locations, which have local permits, who have an environmental impact study, will receive funds. However, here we have made another shift, and this is that we have established to those units of local self-government that are located in areas of special state interest, the mountain-mounted area, we are paying them, we are paying projects, they are making project documentation because they do not have the resources, and here we have just heard that all people think that local self-government units are unable to provide everything that should be provided, which is clear. And we will now and by amending the Law on the municipal economy in which we are working to see and how we can also through it, and as we have discussed on the Committee on Spatial Planning, we will try to resolve that as much resources as possible for these purposes to the units of local self-government. Of course, these are things that are special to us, especially important. What I have to say is another big problem, which is these nine black points in Croatia that are extremely difficult to finance for recovery. We have opened the tender and already agreed to produce a project documentation for a salon factory in Vranjec. The competition for Obrovac is now over, the competition for Sovjak and Lemić hill is now being opened. Therefore, for all 9 locations, we have provided funds for the construction of the project documentation so that at least we will go to it, and then clearly that some of the funds will be provided in the Environment Fund, and some of the funds will be provided from pre-accession funds because we are already working, so we have also ordered this project documentation to be prepared to hand over to the European Commission and these projects which they will assess next year and I hope to give some funds. As far as further from this law, we have clearly distinguished what is the jurisdiction of the state, the county, the units of local self-government and the re-design of the waste management strategy and the waste management programme. Just before you discussed air protection, it was said that perhaps more should have been in the law itself and less in the sublaws. However, the situation is constantly changing in Europe, you see that in these new 13 directives, all the time the new directives, it is very difficult to constantly go to changes in the law, it is much better to deal with sublaws. However, I have to say one more thing and that is that some countries have only one law, the Environmental Protection Act that defines everything, means air and waste and all that comes to this, and then only sublegal acts outside have been resolved and individual segments of all these, in fact individual segments of the Environmental Protection Act. We think it's a good idea to have three laws, so the Environmental, Air and Waste Act, because we still had more to prescribe, and then clearly we're going to sublegally solve all of this that we still have left. I will not speak of general provisions, but what is important and what we have written in this law is the cost of waste management and who is who these costs must cover. You know that we're being guided by a thought, a wage polluter, so it's out in the world like that, that's exactly what the directive says. Therefore, there is no other option than the one that pollutes the space to pay for the disposal of that waste. We have therefore given special attention in this law to the recycling of waste. So for, for, to separate all useful parts of the waste so that we could simply use that waste afterwards, after discarding and recycling and using it. In fact, it is impossible for us in Croatia to need about 400 thousand tonnes, 60 thousand tonnes to collect and import everything else. It just has to stop, the same very similar situation is with glass, it's a very similar situation with metal. We have the opportunity to resolve this, and therefore we have defined that in the price for the export of municipal waste must be part of the price for the purchase of containers, means for glass, paper and that part of the price other than the export must be for the recovery, the recovery of dumps. Because as far as the dump is concerned, it's very simple to find new investors, when we have a waste management strategy to determine where these new waste management plants are going to be done, because there won't be any more dumps in the classical sense of the word, then it's easy to find firms, call a competition, and find companies to build it. However, there is simply no one to report there except local self-government and state units in the resolution and in the possibility of further delay. Therefore, it is also our first and priority. I must say that this time in Croatia is the average price for a four-member family somewhere around 35 kuna per month. It is simply not enough and we will have to gradually increase that price because otherwise not much can be done. What I think is good is that these are our negotiations with companies dealing with production, like paper, glass, or something like that, where they would take waste disposal from these containers or recycling yards to their companies. And that would be found in the price. So, there isn't, there wouldn't be anything the citizens would pay for that ride. However, what they must participate in part as units of local self-government are the procurement of these containers and the construction of recycling yards. And here we as a ministry are also helping the Environmental Protection Fund and getting containers for now to those units of local self-government who are poor and who are unable to obtain such ones, get these containers. Clearly, if there are enough funds, we will try to help other units of local self-government. We have defined in this law what is particularly important for us, and that is, if the units of local self-government do not have in their spatial plans a location for such a dump or a space for waste management and do not resolve and decide, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia will decide where and in what way. Therefore, we must do so because by analysing the spatial plans of individual counties, and especially cities and municipalities, I must say that a very, very small number has identified these locations. We have to have it, and if the local self-government units won't, then we're gonna have to take that part of the job on our own. We have also determined who has the right to compensation if a specific deposit or that waste management space is located in the area of one municipality or city, means that they too have the right to compensation in such a way that all those from the surrounding municipalities or cities deliver to it, to that location then that unit of local self-government should be paid for. And as for citizens who live around, around the same dump up to 500 meters away, they must also receive a fee for reduced value and their real estate but also for living conditions in which they live. We've defined exactly how buildings should look, how they should look, and how to solve that part of the job, but we've also defined everything that's going to be dealt with by sublaws. It is clear that it is not easy to solve all this quickly, but I must say that we have set ourselves here and the impossible situation that, within 3 months, the most important sublegal acts must be passed and we will surely bring them in because it is simply impossible, it is impossible for the law to be passed without these sublegal acts being resolved. What we had, I must say, was that we had very few objections to this law, but the main observation was the observation of the Chamber of Commerce on Article 38, where we first found that those who were creating waste, which means that the producers of the individual products of which the waste remains must take care of it. And clearly that's where we got the one, "against ourselves," so to speak under quotes, both Coca Cola and Podravka and similar large companies because they never cared about that waste so far. Let's say "Coca Cola" we, we're going to suggest on the team, and we told them that they're going to be involved in making a rule for that packaging waste, because it's obviously become a big, big problem, but they have to be aware that they either have to organize the collection of that waste themselves or they have to pay that waste to someone who's going to do the job instead, because it's unimaginable for someone to sell in bottles of booze, it doesn't matter now is it "Coc Cola" or it's "Dukat" or it's anyone, but it's sold in those plastic bottles and then plastic bottles are thrown away. There are examples in the world and in the country, where, in the European countries, you in three or five empty bottles when you hand them over, you get one for a bad bottle full of them. So there are different possibilities. We will rule and give, I think, and these opportunities to establish and share with them what is best and what is possible for them this hour. Surely we won't burden them with such great expenditures as they think, that's the situation, if you remember when the Law was passed, actually when under the Environmental Fund Act, the government adopted two regulations for the release of NO2 and SO2 and then there was a lot of noise. However, now that these fees are seen, how much are prescribed, clear people are now no longer discussing it in such a way, and especially since funds are returned to them if someone goes into construction, means either filters for, new filters or wastewater purification. Therefore, there is no reason for the state to raise funds and to use them precisely for what. We'll do the job with them, but believe me, it's finally time for these big producers to start doing their own waste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28634	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The Committee on Legislative, European Integration, Spatial Editing and Environmental Protection? For the economy? Yeah. President of the Committee, Honorable Representative Drago Pukleš, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28635	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Representatives. The Committee on Economic and Development and Reconstruction of the Croatian Parliament at the 22nd session held on 30 November 2004 discussed the proposal of the Waste Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 November 2004, with a proposal to comply with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall adopt the proposed Law by an urgent procedure. The Committee shall be within the meaning of Article 140. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed this proposal of the Law as an interested body. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out two basic reasons for submitting this legislative proposal. The first is that the applicable law is not in line with the European Union directives. And the second is an analysis of the state of waste management that is not satisfactory. This legislative proposal lays down the obligation to adopt a strategy and to manage waste, the programme of measures and the obligation to adopt a series of sublegal acts. Representatives specifically pointed to the fact that the Republic of Croatia imports 350 thousand tonnes of paper, its needs are about 400 thousand. The government of the Republic of Croatia's right to determine the location for deposits that have not been established by spatial plans has been prescribed. A representative at the ministry met members of the Committee that a 33-million-dollar deposit was arranged. As regards the observations relating to Articles 36 and 38 of this Act, it is pointed out that the maximum number of observations relate precisely to those articles. The reason is that those articles prescribe the obligation for manufacturers to dispose of their waste. This respects the ecological principle by which the polluter must take care of and pay for its waste. Without discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Waste Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28636	Thank you. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. The SDP representative club, the respected representative of Zvonimir Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28637	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Secretary of State. The SDP representative club supports the adoption of this Act. However, we also have several apprehensions. First of all, the principle point is that we believe that this important law, after a long time, did not need to be passed by emergency procedure, or that it is necessary to make such an important, or important, law that applies to the whole of society, which is tangling all levels of government in the country and which so significantly enforcing the economy should be adopted in two readings. Because we finally got the law I think on Friday in my boxes, so we didn't even have enough time to discuss with the profession, with the professional public, with local self-government, with the communal companies what their obligation would be from next week, or from 1.1. 2005. However, despite this observation, we feel that the Law was to be passed, or the Law should be passed. Because it significantly regulates what has been a major problem so far, and the big problem in Croatia is indeed waste. For what? Because waste producers do not consider that they should bear any responsibility for the production of waste. I'm going to caricate the whole thing and say that citizens think that their responsibility for home waste, for municipal waste stops when they put that waste in the trash can and when they eventually put the trash can in a place where the utility company, or whoever collects the municipal waste, will take it. So they, and in their own perception, feel that at that time their every concern for the further, for what they put in the bag stops. But the problem in Croatia is not only the only and most municipal waste. The problem in Croatia is large waste producers, so those who have produced huge quantities of waste for many years, and for them did not bear any material sanctions, or even paid adequate care of them, but even more so that they were mainly treated as municipal waste. And at the moment they produced it from their area of responsibility, it passed into the area of responsibility of local self-government units, which so far were solely responsible for the disposal of municipal waste. So whoever produced, for example, huge amounts of non-refundable packaging had no responsibility for what would happen with that non-refundable packaging. He charged it well in the price of the product. However, the cost of taking care of this waste has fallen to the burden of the unit of local self-government, i.e. on citizens. So it's good to introduce responsibility here, and that financial responsibility, but not only financial responsibility, but also responsibility under the law, for those who create waste. And that they'll have to pay for their care. That's the good side of this law. Here was the minister in the introduction who said she encountered the resistance of domestic producers, so she mentioned Podravka. I must say that Podravka is looking forward to this Act, because Podravka has so far been unable to perform neither the amount of products anywhere in Hungary nor Germany nor Austria without paying for the disposal of packaging waste from its products. Unfortunately, we have a situation that domestic producers have, in one way or another, participated in the financing of waste disposal either through payment of municipal compensation, or through other tax contributions. But the importers didn't do it. In the price of their product, importers installed waste disposal and achieved extra profitability on the fact that they did not have to pay for the disposal of this waste in Croatia. You know how much in our stores there are products from imports and not just harmless waste such as five packagings, glass, paper or something else. What about the tires? What about the batteries? What about the batteries? What about some other stuff? What about pesticides, herbicides and other products imported, where high profitability was achieved and producers did not pay for it, or importers. This is where we express our remarks. We therefore believe that the waste producer should be defined as the one who actually creates the waste but also the importer. So we believe that we should also say on the Committee on Local Self-Government that when customsing goods, the importer should certainly pay the compensation for the waste he imports into the Republic of Croatia. What we think should be done is that in such a way the funds are accumulated into the fund from which companies that would be licensed would be paid to take care of that waste towards the real amounts of waste. So, not that the money from waste disposal goes into the state budget, but we believe that the rules on packaging waste need to be adopted, that a fund should be formed and that the fund should be financed by the disposal of packaging waste towards the quantities really taken care of. The difference between the amounts taken out and the money collected should be used for some general actions or actions in the wider area. In such a way, we will relieve local self-government of what was said here, as well as that local self-government should buy containers, pay for the emptying of these containers, work, be responsible for the selection, because then companies that will receive money to collect waste will be motivated to collect as much waste as possible and will make it possible for citizens to carry out the selection of waste and then these companies will be interested, creating or setting up green islands in cities and municipalities. It will be motivated to make these islands neat, to empty them as much as possible, and also to affect the raising of citizens' environmental awareness that citizens are conducting waste selection, municipal waste. Of course, on the other hand, we have a situation that as well as the method of calculating the export of municipal waste, we can motivate citizens to carry out the selection of municipal waste or that of the waste. But then you have a situation if you raise the price I agree with is low. However, I'm not sure that in the year in which the local self-government elections will be held, local self-government units will decide to raise the price of home trash transportation regardless of who's in power, but therefore you have a situation if you raise the price of home trash transportation to create wild dumps. Citizens find a way to get rid of their garbage and then you have a situation where the recovery of wild dumps must be carried out by local self-government units at the expense of taxpayers, local self-government, so citizens ultimately pay all that back. So we think that this system where funds would be raised in the fund and from the fund would be paid to licensed waste transportation companies would be quite correct and quite fine. What is or will be a minor problem is the question of the packaging waste rule that should finally be brought in. However, we will have serious problems with waste such as batteries, such as batteries, such as car tyres. Today you in the world can't change a tire in Austria, if you change a tire in Germany, then you'll be asked if you leave an old tire here or an old tire with you. If you're leaving it at the tow truck, then you have to pay a fee to take care of that tire. Now, I ask you where in Croatia you have such a situation. Or the volcanoes take it away from you without having to pay for it, so it's going to be able to do with that tire or just take that tire and then turn that tire into municipal waste, put it in the home trash, and the communal company will take it away from you. So it's obvious that here we need to make a lot more order and this law goes towards it. It's good in this law that it is and motivated to reduce the amount of waste production, so it motivates those who produce waste to reduce quantities because it ultimately costs them. However, it might be good to include in the law a provision which will also subsidise those companies and those companies that go after them to verify, for example, with ISO 14000 and 1 which is an ecological certificate and in order to obtain it, you must therefore have a prescribed procedure of dealing with all types of waste in your own process, so in your company, you must go in order to significantly reduce not only the amount of waste but also the amount of energy you use for your own production. What we think is not good at law is that there is not enough clear jurisdiction between the county and the cities and that we seem to be given too much of it in the jurisdiction of the county which should, however, or should be in the jurisdiction of the cities. So you have one by me absurd in Article 18 that says that if a person to perform a municipal service, maintaining cleanliness in the city or the municipality in accordance with regulations does not take care of waste, then a wild dump will do so to the county on the burden of the city. We think it is illogical and that it is illogically speaking and the item of the 3rd article where it says if it does not happen in the city of Zagreb then the City of Zagreb will do so on the burden of the budget of the City of Zagreb. So the responsibility of the local self-government unit if it doesn't do so by a municipal enterprise then it should take care of the city's burden on the city budget. We don't see what you're going to take to the county, for example, so she can be some super-cleaner in her county. In the same way, we believe that it is not good for public administration offices to have a discretionary right to grant concessions or licences for the management of specific categories of waste in Article 41, where it is said that this may be on time, for a specified period and for a maximum period of five years. We think that this discretionary right of the administration should be removed, that this deadline should be even longer but that the administration should not have discretionary rights to set deadlines. Just as we have an observation from some companies dealing with waste that the concession chapter should only be regulated in principle because the concession law defines the award of concessions, so there is no need to install it here in this law in the Waste Act. What we are afraid of is that the deadlines for applying this law are too short because it is defined for example that units of local self-government will do something, so the representative bodies of the unit of local self-government and do some activities by 30 June of next year. I remind you that local elections, that city councils and municipal councils will be disbanded somewhere in early April and that it will certainly not be possible to comply with these provisions. So I repeat on behalf of the club we will support the adoption of this law, but unfortunately we will not be able to take part in the vote on the law because the quorum is falsified in this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28638	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Ivana Sučec-Trakostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28639	Yes, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations from a colleague of Mrsic's. First, it is an incorrect assumption that domestic producers have so far paid a special compensation for waste disposal which is not true, as well as importers have paid communal compensation, waste and municipal contribution, and a special fee, no, I listened and there is a phonogram. And one more thing, so if Podravka was paying customs when she was exporting, then she was paying for the municipal, the disposal of the waste to another country. So it was probably in import customs to another country and it's a misstatement, colleague Mršić, that in this hall is falsified, it's only counting here and how much it is, therefore, it's a matter of reporting to those who count, so they don't fake quorums. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28640	Thank you. It is the turn of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, the distinguished representative of Rade Ivas.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28641	Honored Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, I would say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of this law and will vote for it. In this legislative proposal, the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is harmonised with the legislation of the European Union. In its opinion on the candidateship of the Republic of Croatia for membership in the European Union, the European Commission points out waste management as the most problematic area of environmental protection in Croatia and warns that the legal framework should be harmonised with the European Union rules because the existing implementing rules have not been implemented, the waste management plan, recovery capacity, recycling and care are insufficient and far below European standards. The first complete Waste Act was passed in 95 years, last year a new Waste Act was adopted which actually applies from 1. 1. In 2004. A number of implementing rules have also been adopted on the basis of this legislation but despite this fact that waste regulations form a rounded legal basis for their implementation rates was almost very small, low. The reasons for this are multiple, so the implementation of the part of the obligation prescribed by the Matrimonials face difficulties due to the inaccuracy of the prescribed solutions and the lack of an adequate network of buildings, waste management devices. The lack of appropriate legal economic, strategically planned and implementing solutions halt development in this area despite the growth of private sector interest in waste management investment. There is a lack of legal basis for the establishment of real costs, cost-relations, fair fees and the promotion of economic measures in accordance with the principles of prevention and others. There is no complete, reliable data on the quantities of waste, waste streams or adequate control. It is particularly in poor condition with infrastructure that is insufficient, there are not enough facilities for reception, processing and disposal of waste. The existing waste treatment facilities shall not be used in a satisfactory manner. A particular problem is to determine the location for waste, education and public awareness-raising facilities have been underdeveloped. According to a report on the state of the Republic of Croatia in 2003, around 9 million tonnes of waste, i.e. two tonnes per capita, are estimated to grow at 2% per year in Croatia. 76% of the total quantity produced is liquid waste and 13% of municipal waste. Communal waste is called household waste while technological waste is produced in manufacturing processes in the economy. About a million tonnes of municipal waste is produced in Croatia annually, from this amount organised to collect about 63%, while 37% end up on wild deposits. Of which only 11% is used as secondary raw materials, about 20% of total waste generated is subject to recycling. The main concern is that, according to expert estimates from different categories of waste and municipal and technology, about 200 thousand tonnes of waste, hazardous waste and only 15% of waste, and the amount of which is processed or exported abroad for processing and disposal of around 15 to 18 thousand tonnes, have been reported. The situation in the radioactive waste management system is significantly better, it is temporarily stored, i.e. it is mainly about so-called ‘supervisory’. closed sources that are temporarily stored in adequate controlled areas. The consequences of non-temporary waste management are multiple, adverse conditions in space, reduction of environmental quality, quality of life, and adverse effects on human health. The existing Waste Act states that wastes whose valuable properties can be used are collected and stored separately. The improvement of the prior separation and use of useful waste would also reduce the quantity to be postponed. As things stand now, no one is stimulated, reducing the amount of municipal waste because the service is paid per square metre of space and not by the amount of waste taken away. Of course, the start of application is located in the education of the population, in the need to avoid waste generation and separate collection and to create a lack of personal responsibility. Certainly, NGOs for environmental protection could be a valuable partner to the public administration in the education of the population in theirs, so that their role could be better understood. Croatia's government has opted for an active policy that establishes order in space and ensures the quality of the environment. One priority is to create a complete waste management system. New waste regulation systems are in place to enable more stringent standards to be applied gradually and to encourage applicants to adapt to their capabilities and to comply with the regulations and models of the European Union. At this point, the state is also co-financed to resuscitate 33 depositors and invests 375 million kuna for this and clearly continues to invest intensively in this deposit resolution programme. The proposed Waste Act that we are discussing today contains a legal basis for full harmonisation with the legal courses of the European Union in the field of waste management. This Proposal for a Law harmonizes the rights and obligations and responsible legal and natural persons, units of local and regional self-government in the management of waste. The definition of waste, the types of waste to which the law in question applies, shall also be regulated by the adoption of implementing rules covering the list of wastes of hazardous waste, the list of labels and characteristics, the activity of processing, renewal, use and recycling and disposal, and new types of waste shall be introduced, such as electronic and electrical waste and waste on vehicles and waste on tyres. All this is in line with the European Union directives. The new Law proposes to calculate costs according to the amount of waste, rather than to the square of space. The technical, technical conditions for temporary storage within the production premises of the manufacturer, hazardous waste and the time limits within which it may be stored depending on the way of final disposal, the granting of powers to the Minister of Environmental Protection and the spatial and arrangements for the adoption of implementing rules, etc. Just a few words regarding Article 17. A bill of law. This article discusses the costs of waste management and binds them to the criterion of the amount and characteristics of waste with the application of the principle of the polluter pays. What does this mean for the household? So far, the household garbage transportation fee has been charged according to the apartment's square. This article also introduces a new criterion, which is the amount of waste taken away. Surely the most fair amount of waste waste is to weigh and thus to calculate waste disposal. In practice, however, conditions have not been matured so far in order to do so. The experience in the environments that have tried to function in this way has led to the fact that irresponsible citizens are being dumped outside containers in other people's containers or are being deposited on wild dumps in forests to avoid paying by kilograms. Western countries account for waste disposal by the amount of waste taken over. Each user has its own garbage container marked with a chip, and the truck is valid, the waste is valid. In order to make something like this work with us, society needs to be ready to accept changes and strengthen environmental awareness so that citizens do not put aside household garbage in containers and branches large and even dangerous wastes of different, different packagings. It is certain that the implementation of this Law requires long-term, continuous and substantial, continuous and substantial investment of financial resources from both the state budget, the budget of the county, cities and municipalities. The biggest investments will have to be made to improve technical standards, landfills, re-scheduling dumps that stop working and re-scheduling other local waste pollution sites. But without stronger and substantial help from the state budget, it will be difficult to do all of this. And to conclude: The Waste Act is designed as a legal basis which will allow the adoption of implementing rules to fully address the issue of waste management other than specific issues which, by their nature, are governed by specific rules whose adoption in 2006 will end the process of harmonisation with the legal course of the European Union in the field of waste management. Because of all of this, the Croatian Democratic Community Club supports this law and stands out, it will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28642	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Peasant Party Club, distinguished representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28643	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with Associates, allow me a few words on behalf of the HSS Club on the Law, on the final draft of the waste law. The question of why the new law, and why the old law does not apply a lot of answers, should be given, but here is the government's decision, however, for the new law not to fix what needs to be fixed, and the implementation of the old law was as if there were no results. The fact that the government has opted for a new law situation on the ground. If we ask ourselves better how responsible we are to that part of the waste, the municipal waste where we are participants, and to the legal, physical persons that create the waste, then we see for ourselves and we draw conclusions as to what our situation on the ground is. Thousands of wild dumps, uncontrollable waste at every step and actually devastation of the space "Beautiful ours" visible from any perspective. And it was good for the state to be actively involved and, in fact, it was already needed to take care of that situation. We in the Croatian peasant party absolutely support the procedure or the way the state is turning aside from this because by active participation, we better say the establishment and the fund and the separation of some of the funds from this, from that basis for providing already existing ones, and the organisation of new dumps and all other acts that are now being prepared I think is a good thing. However, a clean approach has already been said. We must actively participate in each of our residents with the right to produce or better say leaving waste to a way that he can take care of himself. He can't just be a expense. It must also be management, an economic branch because here we are, at least in local communities, flooded with questions and actually once incur external capital with waste management rights because they see great profit opportunities in a way that sells technology, that actually binds our hands to a more long-term approach. Tempting money, which would then be exploited and left in a pocket stand. I think it's time to sober up and take care of it in a certain way that's being talked about today. That, ultimately, it is now defined to the end that the polluter is the one who pays, who cultivates, that the responsibility of the manufacturer with the right of the best way to dispose of waste means that he must also make a study and also a laboratory and, in fact, determine the technology that he should be, and in the end, one might not all notice the proximity of waste management. Now it was interesting that the waste was being produced somewhere, and then they searched for destinations where he had been delayed because it was the hottest trash in other people's backyard deposited, taken care of. For that, possibly, if good profitability is someone's pay and we've settled it. I think this, this is a very good, visibly designed, proximity to waste management. In a way clear which is most favourable. Whether it's recycling or it's working one way or another, but ultimately, we're making a commitment now not to, not to distribute that waste to someone else. The fact that the contaminant pays all the time was thought to be enough, actually that was the practice, leaving waste. The one who's bothered to collect it. We are aware of these facts of the bar that we have to deal with this problem and this is how these three segments think that in most cases they give an answer actually to an active approach where the state gives indications how all of this should be done. We're afraid of short arms. We draw attention to the Ministry and as regards the obligation of local administrations and self-government, making appropriate acts and bringing them in because finally there is such a time, a New Year and all together and we think that the adoption of the budget is already at the end. Taking on new obligations, I don't think this law will be implemented by the end of the day by the end of the day, however, by the law of the local community, we will see for the end of 2005 what our obligations will be. Those deadlines should be longer, actually, according to the HSS longer and more systematic so that we don't get caught up in law enforcement. It's interesting that this law, it's not bad, but in the end, the European Commission has objected to us as problem number one. We've all seen it so far, but we haven't been actively involved in it. So we would do well to have some kind of monitoring and that the outsiders are pressing us so that we could work it out faster and all together. I suggest that we solve what we ourselves should solve without being pressured by someone because this problem of the European community is a great respect for us, and that we have not done so much. So that you don't get into some dilemmas right now, I believe that those in terms of this or those options might be questionable. Here is the HSS Club which gives full support to the way and proposed law which follows as the final draft of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28644	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative of Walter Poropat.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28645	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister of Staff and fellow MPs. The adoption of new law on waste is good for a clearer solution to the implementation of the concession, the compensation of units of local self-government, where landfills, dumps, recycling yards or waste disposal sites are located. And the IDS Club supports the adoption of this law but to give even clearer answers to some questions by the time the law is passed. It is very important that the cost of collecting municipal waste clearly highlights the amount for the construction and maintenance of the waste disposal site, whether it is a dump, a recycling yard or something else. In this bill, the paper, which was covered by the laws not covered by the laws of 1995 and 2003, was issued. In particular, this is seen in Chapter 2 of the waste management, point 10 of the liability and liability of the producer of the products and of the waste producer where, through Articles 36 to 40, the producers of the products and the producers of the waste are bound by a whole series of obligations, not to mention how to provide. According to which term plan, who is competent to decide whether the technology applied is correct, or best and the like. However, the chapters of the criminal provisions are therefore very high penalties unless they are implemented. This kind of approach is only possible as a guideline. But by law, the solution should still be precisely defined. What can be seen through the Directives and the European Union. Once again, as through previous legal regulations, I repeat the interference of the authority of the state administration's office in regional self-government units, from the jurisdiction of the management departments of the county's professional bodies. So, for example. According to the draft law, the waste management plan shall be adopted by the County Assembly, and the competent auction office shall monitor their implementation, which may be considered to be fine but the administrative authorities of the County may not draw up reporting plans and other planning documents unless they have insight into the quantities, types and flows of waste in the county area, or if they have no information on entities involved in the waste management system. Therefore, this part of the legislation must also be very clear that it is known which powers the Office of State Administration in the units of local self-government can be used to obtain these data. We at the IDS Club support this bill, but we believe that this should nevertheless be due to a very important law, and legal regulatory management of waste first reading, and to clarify for the second reading the issues that remain open here. And that, until the vote is passed, if it is going through the urgent procedure, the issues raised are, however, clear, and they are given solutions that are known in us so close to the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28646	Thank you. It is up to the distinguished representative Jakša Marasović Club HNS PGS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28647	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's a good thing this law came, but it's not good that it's being carried out by emergency procedure, and it's not good that I've found that there's been some expert debate, even though the minister spoke about it at the last meeting of communals and experts dealing with this problem at the Old Town Hall a few days ago. And as far as I'm concerned, he's not even on the Internet. Why am I saying all this? With all these problems Croatia has one of the biggest problems is waste. For the space of reason why today we don't actually know the number of dumps that organized what wild. And if we don't introduce order in this segment, we're going to have reprecision on a lot of things in Croatia and in terms of nature protection and in terms of tourism because unfortunately today you have in express tourist areas such as Hvar above the town of Škvace. You have a vis on the south side of Vis when you come back from Palagruža then right in front of you a flash of cherries that are exactly halfway between Komiža and Vis. On the other hand, this bill regulates many things that have not really been arranged so far. Because actually the problem of garbage and municipal waste was left to local self-government, and you can imagine when it's left to 550 municipalities and cities as far as we have today how it's going to work out. And that is where the law envisions certain obligations and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and certain powers of the minister which I consider commendable. But something really bothers me very much, which in Article 102 leaves the possibility for local self-government units, and regional or regional self-government, therefore to the counties. That those in their spatial plans establish the site for the construction of buildings intended for storage, processing or disposal of waste. So I don't know what that deadline is, and I think that deadline's long gone. You know you can see from the daily presses from television which are problems from Makarska now is Viskovo so the whole of Rijeka and Primorje Goran County, Split is not to say which problem, because there is a city dump. And you have these probably hundreds of problems in Croatia where smaller ones, where larger, wild dumps, don't give God, who can't count them, because they show up every day and we leave that possibility again to the local environments. I'm afraid this thing won't help far if the state doesn't take it into its own vault and if the state, or government, thing doesn't cut through. For an illustration I'll tell you, Germany, which has 85 million inhabitants, has 80 dumps organized to handle municipal waste. 80 locations. So the equivalent is about 1 location million people. In Croatia it would be very easy to resolve. 4 locations, 4 and a half million people, and here, we have solved the problem of having to know what today is the average price in Croatia paid by the citizen is approximately 1:4, 1:5 which has developed Europe. So we're 1, they're 5. And without increasing that price, without telling the citizens what it means, there is no solution to this problem. We're only going to have an even bigger mess, because even today, these wild dumps are being created every day. I'm afraid by saying this liberal law and letting this problem go to a lower level, we won't actually agree, we won't solve anything. True, by this law, this bill provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will adopt a waste management plan that would also have to have the location of networks, buildings, waste and waste disposal devices in place for their construction. I don't know when that plan has to be made, but I don't know how binding it will be to these at lower levels, because if we don't solve this problem, if we don't agree to say, I say, that our islands can't have any dumps, not one island, not a few of them like today, then trust me that through those revenues from tourism, we'll pay fat, fat. I wouldn't want to be a designer, but Croatia actually has three, has the right opportunity to solve it in a few places for the simple reason that according to the regions of Croatia are, is a cement industry located. So have in Castles Dalmatiacement, you have up in Istria, or Primorje-Gorski County cements, you have in Našice cements. Zagreb is the only one without it, and Zagreb will have to work the garbage burner anyway, because at the very least we will have to take care of the burning, the destruction of hazardous waste, if we do not intend to export it and pay a great price for it. So, in principle, I would support this law as an initiative on behalf of the CNS PGS Club, but if I could suggest that we leave some time for a final decision on this law. I'm sorry, there's one more thing I have to say, I haven't been able to say everything. PET packaging and now in Croatia there is a law on the management of PET packaging only no one adheres to it. There's a rule book, there's a rule book, there's a rule book, there's a rule book, there's a rule book, there's a rule book, there's a rule book, and there's a rule book, and there's a rule book, and there's a rule book, and there's a rule book. So we have to have strict regulations, harsh sublaws, because we know who we are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28648	Thank you. On behalf of the HSLS DC Club, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok. Correction before, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28649	Thank you. In fact, the esteemed colleague Marasovic was all over his debate, and I denied myself that the law should not be passed, but that it should be further developed, because he was saying all along that we did not know the number of dumps or how local units operate. So, since we both come from a county that has had several affairs, in which the former environment minister has actually paralyzed life in Split-Dalmatia County with his clumsy interventions in space and interpretation of the law. So we should be more sensitive and we should support that as soon as possible the situation in the waste. Just remember the statements in Podgorica...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28650	Don't argue. All you have is a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28651	So I would like to correct that this law is also needed as soon as possible, just as it does the Split-Dalmatia County, that units of local self-government finally find a dump for waste disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28652	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Chehok. On behalf of the HSLS DC Club, the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28653	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in a few areas of public service communal or economic activity, it shows in such an obvious way that Croatia is poorly administratively and territorially divided and that in Croatia the public service system is inefficient and that those effects in Croatia are not achieved as synergistic as we should expect when it comes to the cooperation of different levels of government or not in a mechanical way, but in a systematic, administrative way, we regulate administrative Croatia, as precisely in waste management. For ten years now, practically this entire period of independent Croatia or in independent Croatia, all or a large majority of local self-government units, the county and the state then have huge problems with waste disposal, which is, of course, evident in the fact that more than 90% of local self-government units do not have all consent, no neat documentation, most often there is no consent or even no necessary permission to build and manage waste on landfills. If we add to this the fact that the state cannot provide what it is in charge of, which is of course no criticism to the current minister and the current ministry, above all the full disposal of hazardous waste. When we add to that, and the fact that we don't have a single burner at this point, when we still take everything that's been going on in PUTU all these years, and then, of course, it culminates and we can say, by environmental incident, then we become aware that something in this whole system is wrong or we can even say that this whole system is full of disadvantages and we can even say with some kind of structural defects that will make it impossible for any law or whatever our intensity is, things are going to get better. I don't need to mention specifically the fact that even in those units of local self-government where when it comes to selective waste collection and when it comes to bars, when it comes to the first steps or the first necessary measures to start taking care of waste, so that we start to manage waste, all of which is selectively collected and all of those measures that have been taken are practically a major obstacle to a major second step, that most of the so selectively collected waste can't be further handled. What my colleague Marasovic said even when you collect PET packaging as we do in Varazdin, but in every yard selectively, so that it is not only collected on green islands or in some special isolated places, but that every citizen already collects and classifies waste in his household because there are two completely different containers, you practically have no place with this PET packaging unless you have certain companies that are involved in collecting and then exporting such collected packaging. Or let's not mention that my e-mail as head of a local self-government unit, specifically the city of Varazdin, at least a few times a month young eco-aware people question where we're going with the batteries left in our house, because even if we set up special batteries and electronic material vessels, I'm asking you where we'd go afterwards. Once again, it would likely be put into municipal waste by the concessionaires or the one driving the waste, and again what the citizens tried to sort out in their households would be reassembled and mixed with the rest of the waste. I don't mention this to determine what's behind us, but I mention it so that it becomes clear to all of us that I would even say one law about... Nomotechnical enthusiasm that reigned yesterday when we talked about the new Nature Protection Act that we welcome, that even this verbal and declarative support of this law practically falls into the water and we need to regain consciousness when we have ahead of us what we can do with the waste. [[You don't understand.]] We can talk about the diversity of Croatia and nature and the landscape diversity of Croatia, we can talk about the best intentions of waste management, but the fact is that all of this comes with obstacles when we realize that Croatia has no basic infrastructure, basic construction facilities, and then, unfortunately, neither adequately eco-aware entities dealing with waste. In Croatia, it can be said with full responsibility, waste management comes down to someone picking up containers, someone emptying containers and then taking them all to the first dump that we already are and how only the ministry admits over 90% is completely inappropriate and without the necessary consent of the documentation. And that, of course, is something that we must be seriously concerned about, is something that needs first of all to be passed by law and established a proper practice. I think that this law is moving towards it, but still because, between our different levels of government, primarily municipalities, cities, county and state, there is no such fine networking and this synergy effect, but above all between these levels of government, there are constant friction, constant conflicts, constant misunderstandings, and this often leads to the fact that a municipality that has in its area of deposit is returning to a feudal age and practically closing the ramp, closing the fence for all those other units of local self-government and the whole county to which waste should be delivered. We're practically back in feudal times. We're about to introduce bridges and tolls so we can transport and we can dump the waste. I am afraid of the minister, I have told you several times, and in the bilateral talks that we call it so, that until the state takes the obligation, and strictly, and until they impose on the local self-government units that they have to agree and until the county is competent that it must be mandatory if the units of local self-government can't agree, have one county dump, so that the county has to have it if the units can't agree on what I can't agree with, and I don't want to speak anymore now and politically, after these local elections, if there is a block division of this kind, if the parties from Zagreb will determine the units of local self-government where and how they can co-ordinate and with whom, when one unit will be under one authority, the other under other authority, and the county may be under third authority, and perhaps under fourth authority, I assure you that it will lead you to return of the full Federation of Croatia and we won't have all the need to be able to agree that all of the most of the county. That's why I think even though there are cities that selectively collect waste, cities that go through and balm waste, cities that have succeeded in these four years against what you claim and what you have as a ministry, reduce the amount of waste that is delayed. I'll tell you what, in Varazdin, we've reduced the amount from a thousand and 500 cubic meters a week to a thousand and 100 cc's in such a selective collection. But what it's worth to us when we can't have our own dump, because the whole town lies on a water layer and we practically can't have a dump in our area, and all the other units of local self-government can say that, a little cowboy, condition, blackmail, and don't want to take the waste away from just because we're all on a plumber, all of us looking at miracles, using our drinking water. So these are those issues that I don't think we're going to succeed in legislative practice, no matter how strict, as far as I'm saying again, I think the law is much better determined than the existing one, we won't be able to prevail unless the state is actively involved. You asked our mayor in Varazdin to set up a county location within three months, now seven months or eight months, even, not yet done, and it's not done because no local self-government unit wants to have a dump in its area and I can understand it, but then someone has to, then someone has to take a commitment. So this is something that shows how ineffective the system is, in fact, to divide into units of local self-government, regional and regional self-government and the state administration, and I think that is exactly the question that the future of Croatia depends on as a touristic and ecologically clean, peaceful and orderly state. I would, therefore, really advocate that these issues be negotiated a little more in detail. I also believe that the Croatian state should find ways to impose joint regional landfills and regional burn plants using pre-accession funds right now. Ladies and gentlemen, countries that have far more inhabitants than us have several burner rooms, look at Austria. It is truly amazing that in all of Croatia, at 4.5 million inhabitants, we cannot because we are divided into these 20 counties, where everyone in some local patriotic interests does not want to cooperate with others, that we cannot agree to create three or four large burn plants and that these burn plants are then a permanent or at least longer term waste disposal solution. We need to understand that when it comes to environmental issues, we need to agree that we don't have that choice, that we can't look at my local environment no longer wants to talk to that neighboring environment or that environment that I might be interested in. And that's why I think it should be there if not already legislative initiatives, Madam Minister, then at least more advisory, so I can say the initial roles of the Ministry of Economy to come up with such joint regional projects. Because here we are, and our neighbors Hungarians just out of pre-accession funds have drawn the most funds for purifiers for biological and mechanical devices and for combustion plants. Not to mention, let's say, when it comes to purifiers that those cities like, let's say, here we go again, to the Varazdin who have their purifiers. After that, they have nowhere to go with the mud because if our mud wasn't fortunately containing some metal or radioactive matter, but let's say if it contained us, we wouldn't have anywhere to burn the mud and we couldn't use it. Therefore, these are all issues that not only threaten the quality of civil life but also endanger both foreign and domestic investments. Because I'm asking you, who's going to invest if, say, one county can't guarantee that the next 10 years will have a smooth disposal of industrial waste when the county, for example, has not yet been able to find such a common location, could not determine. This will, of course, discourage any investment, especially those that come from outside and who do not know very well that regional system in Croatia, that in such an insecure state and in such insecure local environments they do not invest. What you would particularly advocate is dealing with special waste. It's good what's proposed for five packagings. I'm not as sure as, again, the end representative who's strong in the food industry, that it would be good to impose on the food industry that he has to pay as much as is produced, of course, as he collects. But also, I advocate a stronger and better legally established processing of rubber products in Varazdin. That's probably what you know, a factory will be built just to process, recycle rubber products, and it would be good to establish that by law. Because it is generally known that today in Europe, for example, Germany, if you want to change and replace old tires you have to pay for recycling those tires. So every new tire practically ensures then the handling and recycling of the existing waste that you've produced. These are the questions we have to answer. I repeat once again, not only for the quality of civil life and respect for environmental standards but also for the promotion of the economy and security of all investors that municipal industrial waste can also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28654	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28655	So I would correct my colleague, Chehok, who said that if he allowed citizens to collect separate batteries to probably end up in municipal waste. No, pal Chehok. Here we have in Koprivnica allowed the citizens to put the batteries in special tanks and take care of it later. It's expensive, but it's taken care of just as much as five-net and paper and glass are taken care of, and every month we have exactly how much of that waste is collected and where they're taken care of. We also provide them with tires and batteries and straight glass recycled in the yard. It's expensive, but we've made it possible for citizens and there's so much less municipal waste at the municipal waste dump.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28656	Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28657	In several incorrect allegations made by Mr. Chehok, I must say, it is the first, the Varazdin County was the first in Croatia to adopt its own spatial plan and it seems to me that 7 sites for waste dumps. The mayor is neither by law nor by any means the person who can make the decision himself, but the units of local self-government must agree. The municipality of Gornji Knegineci had closed the front door of the dump, however, it was due to unresolved financial relations between the city and the municipality. So, it's not, so it's a different kind of dispute. And as for the City of Varazdin supplies water to others, and that is not true because it is the most spring in Bartolovac, which is in the municipality of Trnovec Bartolovsky, not in the City of Varazdin. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28658	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28659	Article 209 was injured because I, dear Mr. Korenika, did not say that the county did not put into a spatial plan but did not respect the minister's obligation to determine a county dump to which it would be possible to postpone. That's not what the county did.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28660	No, colleague Chehok, no injured Rules of Procedure 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28661	Is injured, and the second Rules of Procedure injured, I didn't tell Mr. Lobster that it wasn't good to collect batteries but I said that after that there was nowhere to go with them...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28662	But no injured Rules of Procedure, Article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28663	...that these batteries in Croatia, that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28664	Yeah. At 12 a.m., Article 207 paragraph 2 has expired time to apply for individual hearings. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. Before we move on to an individual debate, the word was requested by the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28665	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you all for this discussion so far and for what the clubs had to say because it is more or less clear that you all support such a proposal that this law had to be reached, that it must come as soon as possible. But what I think is necessary is to say because Mr. Marasovic is also, and Mr. Chehok has also discussed what units of local self-government can do, what is necessary for the state to do. You know, we still have one thing to deal with. When we determine that some spatial plans need to be controlled by the state, then it turns out that we're a centralist state, that we're making problems and that we don't let people decide on their own. Now, all of a sudden, if we wouldn't want to make decisions because we're afraid of people, to decide where the dumps are, this should be done by the state. You know, it's just impossible because in one case and another, the situation is very similar and we have to decide. Whether it's units, whether it's local self-government units, or whether it's a state. According to our Constitution, it is decided by the local self-government unit unless the state has specifically protected certain areas where the state decides. Mr. Marasovic, for example, wonders that there is nowhere in any law found that units of local self-government are obliged to establish by law, to determine the location. There are, there are amendments and additions to the Law on Spatial Regulation that we have brought to this House, in this summary where it is clear and loudly written: "rocks", Mr Marasovicu, "rocks". So where it says that all units of local self-government in the coastal area must bring spatial plans by May 30th of this year, and everyone else by 31.12.200 next year. Therefore, deadlines exist and there is no problem and there is no reason not to do so. But for the first time, it has been introduced that if the local self-government units won't be able to handle it, then it's the government that's going to say it has to be there. Which is not good because it would be much better to deal with it in the area, in the units of local self-government, but if it's impossible, if it can't possibly be a spatial plan, then there's no other way out than to say it by the government. And what got me a little distracted by individuals, that's why this law is passed by emergency procedure, not by two readings? I'm curious why we didn't discuss this at the end of last year when this same law was passed by emergency, not the same, but the Waste Act brought about by emergency procedure because it was said there was no discussion at all. It is a law that is in line with Europe, and it must be harmonised by the end of that year. So it has to be carried out by emergency procedure. So it's all the same with us being really with cities and municipalities and counties discussing it enough and discussing it a lot, and I believe that the units of local self-government and the counties are more or less satisfied with it. It is clear that these locations should be identified which are always a problem and that more resources should be provided to us, it is clear to all of us. As for certain mayors who have no deposits in their territory or anything like that, especially when it comes to larger cities, they had to establish it by their own spatial plans under the existing law. If they do not then have to bear what some others do for them, they require in their area paying special rents and special fees. Therefore, if the city of Zagreb could have a dump and is located on a watery layer, then Varazdin must have had to. We're all engaged, we all know in what way, I've really been from the first day I started doing this job walking around and solving the problems at the dumps that everyone has to admit and persuaded both of them and the other and the heel, even though I think you should have made your own arrangements. And that advisory matter of the ministry, we're always for advice, but don't make us all lively arrangements with everyone. And so there's no reason for us to help as much as we can wherever we can help, but it's also true that the first and primary responsibility on local self-government units is to create waste, not old waste, what we're in charge of, which we have to solve is dangerous waste. And if we hadn't gone far, it's true, and I'm sorry to have to say it, but that's the way it is. But at least part of it, one large part of the municipal waste started to solve. Now it's our first and basic thing to do and that dangerous waste, but I'm asking you that if we're all together, don't, we can't move on to each other and to the third. We must solve these problems together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28666	Thank you. The word has... a correction to the incorrect quote of the Czechook. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28667	Well, I absolutely appreciate Mrs. Secretary's efforts. However, I think it's a good law, but the fact that neither the state has taken care of dangerous, 90 % and some of the local self-government units do not have orderly dumps, says something is wrong in Croatia. Therefore, it needs to be changed, and I'm afraid we won't do it by law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28668	Mr. Chehok, correcting an incorrect quote, I ask you not to abuse the black white tiles. The word has a respected representative, Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28669	Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Well, when we talk about junkyards we don't have to go far, let's take a walk along the Sava, we'll see that all abandoned gravel is full of garbage, that if you get into the woods here's a nearby Samobor Mountain, the first hundred meters you can run into piles of garbage wherever a human leg or tractor can come in, there's garbage. Despite the organisation of the transport and tradition of the transport and disposal of the trash. While these dumps become dumps, and one part has become, so has the Jakushec, as well as Trebež in the Samobor municipality, it will last, and in particular it will last until they become arranged dumps. The fact is that we've had a dozen years of supply around small burners all the time, and when we've offered our bidders to go look at this technique in Switzerland or somewhere else, they've usually invented that it doesn't work either this or that right now. So, unfortunately, none of that was very, very interesting. The goal of all of us is to start with the waste sorting, because the waste sorting is going to be very reduced, namely, we also started eight years ago, but eventually the waste ended up with waste that can't be recycled and nothing. But we're persistent, so here's what we're trying to do, as much as we can take care of some kind of waste. Here I have to point out the same problem, we did a bear service for us as a municipality when we went to marketing a little bit to one of our craftsmen who has a processing of plastics, and since they read it all over Croatia, they buried it for a while. Here's Brkovic's turn in St. Sunday is covered with bales, recycling foil, PET packaging and the like, so please, here's the minister, because he's stuck, he's stuck in investments, his biggest investment is a giant power substation he can't handle, one building is like this, the construction is over. We as local self-government have freed him from most or almost all givings, so here but without the help of the ministry I don't think it will work, that he, and that's a family craft, although he has 20 employees of sons doing the same thing with him, that it's very, very important because one of the few that deals with waste processing, and we know that plastic waste is just the hardest to destroy. Here I have to say that with batteries it's really the same serious problem, and those who don't, it would be good to at least put the batteries together, if at least put the batteries in the PET packaging, and it would delay for a while the bar's decomposition and pollution. It's a good thing we heard today on committees that the ministry will finance or co-finance the supply of containers, containers at least for those parts and those poorer municipalities and cities that can't afford it because it's the fact that it costs it. The fact is that today local self-government pays for the supply of containers, transportation also, the disposal of all the materials collected that can be recycled and those who can afford it can, but many can't, so here I really pray that as much money as possible in the next budgets can be allocated to it. Here, perhaps in the end, because we already know everything about the waste, just so we don't repeat ourselves, I have to say that one excuse of the opposition is not even for recycling, which is to vote, to vote for this, but that's why they don't vote. I have to say that as a mathematician, I looked a little bit statistical. This year averaged about 100 MPs, so about 100 MPs, which means that at least 50 MPs were not present in the polls in the first place, nor when everything was in the best order, when it was almost going between us. According to this, it's not about protest, it's about unhappiness, irresponsibility, so it's not about non-execution of parliamentary obligations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28670	Dear Representative Markovanovic, come back on the subject, because I will take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28671	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28672	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28673	There's no irresponsibility involved in the vote, no irresponsibility, no protest. About the protest...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28674	Dear Representative Stazic, I also warned the honourable representative Markovanovic to return to the topic and that I would take away his word. I ask that you, too, by your correction, do not turn away from the subject and do not have the correcting of what this incorrect quote is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28675	Why don't I?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28676	So why don't I? Well, you don't because I warned Mr. Markovanovic to stick to the subject and that I would take his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28678	The fact that you have warned him is the relationship between you and Mr. Markovanovic, and I have the right to correct his incorrect allegations that is completely incorrect, that it is not about unhappiness, it is about protesting the falsification of the quorum in this House. ... That's what the press have documented, and that's what you've got on the front page. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28679	Okay. You've corrected an incorrect quote. The word has a distinguished representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28680	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we are discussing a topic that represents not only the Croatian but also an increasingly global problem. The amount and type of waste particularly dangerous waste is growing through the progress of technology, but also by increasing and expanding economic activity to an increasing number of countries and those who did not understand this problem in time are becoming increasingly difficult and more difficult to solve. Well, Croatia too can be said to have this problem that has long not created awareness that it will one day become a problem. I have consulted people in the municipal company in my city in this short time since we received the bill here at the Parliament, and their assessment is that this law is good, but that it is significantly above the practice in Croatia that is being implemented. That's not bad. That's good. Because we have to set ourselves more goals to solve the problem then faster and higher. Namely, he will now comply with the latest legislation in the European Union, and it is a good thing that such high standards are being applied. Therefore, I will not talk about certain provisions of this Law, I say in principle it sets high standards and these standards should in as short a time as possible try to apply in practice. But I would try to point out three problems or three areas that should be given a special emphasis precisely at this beginning of the application of the Law. I think the biggest issues of concentration and concessionaries who get such concessions are in our local self-government. Small municipalities that find it difficult to address the problem of waste management and collection and disposal are often subject to the pressure of citizens to keep the price as low as possible. And then it's those who don't meet all the conditions that the concessionaries should meet that lower-price contest at that price that there's no cost of waste management, and that's how we're actually getting more and more into these problems and wild dumps. I'll say that in the area of Međimurje County we have a constant problem one wild dump is being resolved, it emerges in a few days elsewhere. And that's why I think it takes a rigorous surveillance, but also rigorous penalties for those particular companies that register as mushrooms after the rain and compete with those who do the job in a legitimate and appropriate manner. Another problem or other area that would particularly point out I think it is necessary at these levels, as the Law says, to bring waste management plans as soon as possible. Waste is not only garbage, waste is also an entire industry that can obtain excellent economic effects and bring new employment and bring new income. Therefore, I think it is necessary in this area to do as urgently as possible in this short time. And the last thing I'd like to warn you about is raising both our environmental awareness and our relationship with our citizens towards waste management. I think we should, it's not just this Ministry, it's a problem of the common society and therefore, everyone who participates in and outside the education process. And that's the education plan. I will say, for example, exactly the municipal company from Čakovec, which has been teaching citizens for six or seven years that waste selection needs to be done, which, with the setting of green islands in very appropriate and close places of citizens in the last two, three years, has been enabled and selection in the household itself, which through selection of six or seven types of waste can do so in its own home or in its own backyard. Which they started with the medications that they periodically deliver to all the households. Which on local television is spinning videos that show what it means if you pollute your surroundings with garbage, as well as contacts with children from pre-school age, we try to train citizens that their consciousness is such that garbage should actually be taken care of in an appropriate way and that all garbage is not garbage. I think that in this sense we would work more widely, not only in Croatia we only have periodic actions of the tourist community at the beginning and during the tourist season. There's as short as possible about this law, and I think it's appropriate and it can be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28681	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Vladimir Plesko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28682	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'll be relatively brief, because when we have such a good law in front of us, then it's very difficult to find in it something that a man would disagree with or that he could discuss too long. But I will also not, as many of my speakers, talk about the wastes that are not included in this Law, because at the very beginning of the legal provisions it writes exactly which types of waste are processed through this Law. But I'm going to say one other fact, an old saying that has been known for many years in Croatia and Croatia as well as in the whole world, which is that we all borrowed our country together, the whole planet of our own children. And I can therefore say that this Law is one of the first steps that when we return that land to our children, we will no longer have to be ashamed. Mostly in the Republic of Croatia, and I don't need to remind myself of all of our natural beauty that we have, which practically through the previous management of municipal waste and waste that is produced in companies quite well knew and reviled, damage our beautiful country, damage our water streams, damage one of the great treasures that we have in the Republic of Croatia, which is large amounts of shallow water compared to other countries of Europe and other countries of the world. Also in the discussion that I have to replicate my colleague Mršić who said that there was too little time to discuss with the participants in waste management, means with participants who care about waste collection and disposal, I argue that there was enough time for this debate to show that this law went in the direction of what is currently possible with our municipal enterprises, but also so that it is possible to do through the acts of the units of local self-government, meaning municipalities, cities, counties. Still, in my discussion, I'd like to list a few important things here. And that, looking at the problems that have been plagued in the Republic of Croatia so far, is the same as the whole world in the issues of municipal waste. One of the biggest problems I see here in the Republic of Croatia is that out of 100% municipal waste, 75% of the renewable waste has been used in the Republic of Croatia, up until now 10% of that renewable waste has been used. Also, the fact that in Croatia many dumps were without planning documentation, without construction permits, location permits and everything else that should have been in accordance with the laws. Also the third fact that disturbs Croatia's beauty are wild dumps that nothing like someone has already said as mushrooms after the rain. Someone delivers one cardboard box and then in two days it becomes a whole big dump, a wild municipal waste dump. Fourthly, the problem is misimplementation, so far the poor conduct of inspection services. And the fifth of the problems so far is no law has treated the manufacturer's obligations means packaging and some other products that were later found in municipal waste. From this summary, reviewing these problems the biggest ones in the Republic of Croatia can look at and list the law, reading the legal provisions, see that all these are the biggest problems and processed through the law. So all these problems now have their exact place in which certain problems will be solved. And that's why I have to commend this whole law. In particular, in the end, I will actually thank the Head I. Planical documents management of waste, because it is one of the starting grounds for us, through the strategy for the Republic of Croatia, through waste management strategies for the counties, for municipalities and cities, all of us know where the place is and us individuals who produce waste in our homes in business spaces. I hope that the implementation and inspection measures will be far higher than they have ever been and possibly could give another one at the end to the Madam Minister and Mr. Secretary of State, and that is the idea of West Germany, which also has a communal police that systematically monitors the possibility of creating wild dumps, means that it is also possible to combat such phenomena that simply through all our beautiful areas do not occur these wild dumps. Normally, with the possibility that the ministry will have whether through the law, whether by supplementing the law or through means sublegal acts to determine one such possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28683	Replica esteemed representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28684	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... My colleague, therefore, encouraged me by his debate on the ineffectiveness of inspection services, and I would like to say that I really expect this law to be effective. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I have to mention one current example of a wild dump in Župa Dubrovacka, the Minister knows about this problem and I thank you for all the interventions so far, but unfortunately the whole system is not working so that further action can be prevented on these dumps, and I hope that this case will be, these cases will be solved by this new bill proposal and that it will not be allowed for those who really use the legal holes as they have so far used them to continue to be those who will generate new ferocious dumps and who will further destroy the environment because indeed what is happening and now that simply inspection services cannot reach them and their behaviour. What exactly is happening? Certain self-invited ones who delay to these wild dumps actually earn money and delay it in an inappropriate way, and neither the police can react effectively nor the inspections can react effectively although the inspection comes to the lists of places but as it does not find one who does so at that time simply does not get a ban on further disposal. So these issues really need to be settled for the benefit of all the municipalities because we have a down and a rebellion of the people, so to speak, which rises against such actions and in fact demonstrates the ineffectiveness of the system which I believe will be dealt with by this law. And in this regard, I appeal to the Minister and to Mr Secretary that these issues are indeed resolved either by a sublaw or directly by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28685	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28686	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To encourage this replica by Mr. Matusic, I must try to elaborate on the proposal I made and on the matter of the Minister's office. Because when you look at examples from western Germany, then you can see that inspection services always come later when someone informs them. A kind of municipal police that would be constantly under surveillance, which could constantly control, would give far greater results. And on the very financial costs of such financial police, I think that they would quickly cover themselves with penalties, with all of them, means to collect such harmful actions and I don't think it would be any cost to the Republic of Croatia, but it would be a great benefit in the finality.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28687	Thank you. It is next to the distinguished representative Mršić Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28688	So I'd be replicating what he had enough time to talk to the professional public. My colleagues, I don't know when you got this bill but we put this law on the agenda Thursday afternoon without any material. On Friday afternoon we got the law in the boxes and I don't know how you did it with the professional public, with the communal companies, with units of local self-government discussing this law. If that's what you've done, I admire you. I just couldn't do it. I've had that remark. I had an observation therefore that such an important law was good to bring in two readings. And secondly, if we're already bringing him in on an urgent procedure that we could get at least ten, fourteen days before we discuss it because we need to discuss with the expert the subject of this law and see if this law really fits everything that is not diminishing the need for its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28689	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Mršić, first a few months ago, there was a consultation in Rijeka on the Law on the Communist Economy and the Waste Act. That's the first thing. The second thing, Mrs. Zgrebec also told you that she was able to talk to the director of the municipal company at her place in Čakovec and that she agreed and that practically all of those proposals that went through the meanings of the alliance of municipal companies, the unit of local self-government that they were included in this waste law. Well, Mr. Mršić, I also spoke to the directors of waste collection companies in Krapina-Zagorje County. It has been said that all requirements made to the ministry in terms of waste management have been included to the maximum.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28691	Thank you. It's time for the Honorable representative of Jure Bitunac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28692	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! There is a very important law ahead of us, and it is not just a trend in Europe, but in the world at all, and when it comes to pollution and this segment of waste, we can say that we can talk about global pollution. We are witnessing that large world corporations and large exporters defacto pollute the poorest countries of those who import, who are forced to import and thus secure extra profits. I like it in this Law that its basic philosophy is that the polluter pays, in other words all those who, by producing or in any other way, have negative effects, must be installed in the price of their product and the care of the relevant packaging, by taking care of what remains after a certain process of production. We were witnesses when it came to Croatia, mainly about Dalmatia's problem in the last few years we met where de facto every village in the region of Dalmatia had its own eco-station and we were in some way under a lot of pressure given that I worked as the director of the municipal society and I was very familiar with things. And, of course, when it comes to waste management and the problems that are real and that exist, I have to say that there's been enough, unfortunately there's been a lot of politics. I hope that by discussing and adopting this Law and determining the location of the future when it comes to waste management centres, we will avoid the situation so that it is in some way the subject of calculations, the subject of political games among political parties, mainly the parties that are in the Croatian Parliament. I would also welcome this concept when it comes to responsibility where there is one vertical in terms of states, counties, cities and municipalities. Although I must say that Article 13 is the law, the responsibility of the state is defined, then the county and the city of Zagreb. However, in Article 15, the city and municipalities are responsible for the management of municipal waste. He is not in coalition with Article 14 but I understand that there is one co-responsibility between the county, the unit of local self-government, and I think it should have been by law itself, the law should have been more precisely defined. I have one observation that my goal is not to protect the units of local self-government but that they will not be able to respond to the incident situation and it concerns Article 18 of this Act and it is about the removal and disposal of waste. Article 18 states that the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb, the city and the municipality are obliged to ensure the disposal and disposal of waste. Here the question arises what is with the dangerous waste that can be thrown in their space, thrown away, and I know that in paragraph 4 of this Law, the bill that the state, that the state is obliged to secure the recovery, but there is also, for me personally, I am not a lawyer there is some small dilemma. I'd like more if you let me say the following. When it comes to the application of the law itself in the final provisions. Whether the state, and in particular whether the counties, small municipalities, cities, municipal societies, will be able to respond to the demands put before us by this Law, looking financially, looking from a professional point of view and also in terms of organisation. I think we don't even have enough time and I think the Ministry should take care of it. This is the final proposal, and I welcome it, but I think there may be some real problems here. There were today words from some colleagues who mentioned the issue of collection, meaning that the household, that the individual, that the legal person paid the actual amount of deposited waste, however, even there was a weighing, etc., I must say that at least from the experience that I have, the information that I have, that something like that still applies in a very small number of countries, and even in Germany only about 20 percent of the cities are taking part in this way of payment. Because he's pretty sophisticated, she's pretty complicated, he's just, but he's too expensive. I believe that we, and gradually adopting this Act, will have to be flexible with these small units of local self-government and their municipal societies or communal plants dealing with the deposit, the collection of waste. The answer can also be sought through concession, possibly, however, I believe that neither through concession for now in these environments nor through privatisation possibly... Intruding a private person into the sector, that we will not be able to solve it in one quality way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, this Law is very good, I welcome it, I give full support and I believe that our constitutional obligation is now and, de facto, the law from it and results in the conservation of the environment so that Croatia, mainly its coastal part, is interesting and acceptable for the people who come here and that Croatia is also in this segment of a regulated state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28693	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28694	Dear Vice President of the House, Your Honor. Well, I think we have a good law ahead of us. The only thing we can rightly ask ourselves is why we're bringing it in on an emergency procedure right now. I know, it's a law that harmonizes with the European Union, I know there are deadlines, but we could think about those deadlines a little earlier, look, we've been wasting time here in this House on a lot of non-essential things, first we've cut VAT, then we've abolished VAT reduction, so we've been passionate about an exclusive economic belt, so we've equally passionately advocated giving up the ecological-fishing zone instead of spending our first reading, for example. about such important laws, so we would all have a good time to discuss them in two readings because it is a complicated law, an important law, that requires two readings. Here's why! You see, it's already pointed out here, it's not enough, I mean in the law, it's a thought-out or imaginary issue of imports of certain goods and the fees paid for the disposal of waste for these goods. Here's a very simple example. You know, when the importer imported Milka's chocolate from Switzerland, he didn't just import the goods, he imported that stanol and that paper. And now at the price of the goods, and Milka's chocolates there are also the costs of raw materials and labour and energy costs, but there's also the fees for waste disposal. And that's the ultimate consumer, the one who eats that chocolate he pays for it. He pays for it. And is now that fee paid by the importer to the Swiss, does that fee, when processed here in the price of the final product, be taken out of that price and paid for the disposal of that same waste, that standard, that paper? Or the importer earns extra profit which is first and second comes in unfair competition with domestic producers who have to pay such a fee. For example, the question is not adequately resolved in this Law and the important question is, important, we cannot say that it is a political issue. Even more drastically, it's seen in dangerous waste. You see, the law says well, importing dangerous waste is forbidden, but that's of course when it comes to what's already dangerous waste. But what about the goods that are about to become dangerous waste? Batterys, batteries, car tires? Medicinal products! We're importing drugs, we're importing consumables. You know, when a gauze is imported, you didn't import dangerous waste, but when that gauze is used in a hospital, it becomes dangerous waste, it becomes a dangerous waste that must be taken care of by special procedure. That's one question that's not enough here, solved precisely enough. Now, when it comes to hazardous waste, it's a good thing the state took over on itself. But we see what we have in Croatia with this dangerous waste and its disposal. He's nowhere to be taken care of. We in Croatia have nowhere to look. It was Puto in Zagreb. Well, he's gone. It's not working. Besides, it's an inadequate burner. It's a mobile burner that's been purchased for a specific purpose. For the recovery, for the burning of hazardous waste in the process of resuscitation of the Jakuševac dump. It was used not only for this purpose but used to burn waste from all over Croatia and even from imports. It was all there when that fire broke out. And some gas masks from Israel, and who knows who brought it in, and who made money on it. Now aside from how that burner was obtained. She got it, she got it at a time when the mayor was Mr. Miksha or how much she was paid. There it was heard that she was overpaid five times what it was worth, but on the side of it. She, what matters, she's not appropriate. It is not appropriate, we in Croatia have no place to take care of dangerous waste. The evidence is that your Ministry does not give us a valid permit for Puto. It doesn't give a valid license yet because you don't think it has minimum technical conditions to work. And it's just fine that you don't give the right permission. But we don't have anywhere to take care of that junk. We don't have an adequate solution. Dangerous waste is also delayed in our home with a communal one, and no one is subject to sanctions. You know, here we heard the hive... Make some batteries cans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's okay. But who's responsible? Who is it when in this country is punished for throwing dangerous waste away as a communal waste? And here, this law should provide for that punishment, even for citizens, according to natural persons, let alone large entities. When he does, say, a hospital with, like, dangerous waste that's a medical province. Now, there's this law, Madam Minister, that's my biggest grudge. He's got one chicken egg. This is Article 13, which is revealed when this Article 13 is read backwards from paragraph 4 above. For paragraph 4 says that the county and the city of Zagreb, that they are in charge in their area of Madam Minister, will ensure in their field the implementation of the prescribed waste management measures referred to in paragraph 3. And paragraph 3 says that the Government of the Republic of Croatia ensures conditions and regulations... for the management of waste referred to in paragraph 2. And only paragraph 2 says it's a dangerous waste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's about dangerous waste. According to law, the city of Zagreb will have to take care of dangerous waste in its area. Madam Minister, that's something I find completely unacceptable. For two reasons. First, what comes from you, and you were the mayor of the city of Zagreb. Second, because that's what I see, correct me, Madam Minister, if I'm wrong. This question needs to be discussed, it's not irrelevant. Because I'm reading that this Puto is going to work, and it's going to burn in the city of Zagreb. So where in the city of Zagreb is the largest population, the largest population density? So does the Republic of Croatia not have any more adequate space? And that dangerous waste needs to be taken care of by the state and by this law, and by this law. So I'm going to propose an amendment. I will refer you to the amendment to delete this paragraph of Article 13(4). It means that we do not task the city of Zagreb and the county to ensure that the prescribed measures are implemented as well as the waste management referred to in paragraph 3 and that paragraph 3 points to paragraph 2 and that paragraph 2 says it is dangerous waste. If you do not accept it and if it is so that dangerous waste is taken care of in the area of the city of Zagreb and that is a legal solution, I will inform the Assembly of the City of Zagreb and the Headship. I will propose amendments to this Act as soon as he is accepted to correct it. So, in general, I support this law as well as all the members of my club. I think he's good. I think that some of these details can be fixed, but I don't want to participate in a farce, in which in this House, the quorum is falsified by all journalists, and thus falsely display the results of the vote, so I won't vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28695	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28696	Mr. Stazić, as far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, you can actually do everything you want from the City of Zagreb Assembly, but what you need first to ask is to enter into one plan where the municipal waste dump is in the city of Zagreb? It's not there. And it's inconclusive. That it's not there. And as for hazardous waste here, it clearly states that measures should be implemented but does not mean that waste should be deposited in the city of Zagreb or that it should be burned in the city of Zagreb or in another county. We, we have taken over, the state has taken on the obligation to deal with hazardous waste, but we have to prescribe measures that they will have to implement about the collection, about resolving it and solving it in one place or in two places in Croatia. Right now, no one's taking care of anything except that we're getting paid when some junk is taken care of and somebody's putting down dangerous waste, then the state pays for it. So the state pays for it, taking care of that dangerous waste. But there's nothing else. When measures are taken, when a country that is definitely responsible for hazardous waste prescribes and determines locations and prescribes measures that individual counties must take because of what will happen in a particular area, no one has said that the city of Zagreb or any county in its location must deal with hazardous waste, as no one has ever said that what you have, by the way, signed for Krško nuclear power plant, will be deposited in Croatia and radioactive waste will be deposited. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28697	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28698	But Madam Minister, this is where the city of Zagreb is particularly apostrophe. [[/Upadica: The city of Zagreb is also a county for God's sake. That's why it's apostrophe, nothing else.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28699	Minister, please don't come from the bench. Here you are, dear representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28700	Minister, please don't come from the bench. Here you are, dear representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28701	You haven't corrected any incorrect allegations, Your Honor. But good. Let's move on. The word has a distinguished representative Mirjana Brnadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28702	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The problem of waste disposal and disposal in Croatia has reached its peak because of a long-standing failure or partial resolution. There are both subjective and objective reasons. First of all, there is a lack of legal, strategic-planning and implementation solutions. He stopped the development of waste management and management. It is also insufficient and here it is highlighted the number of environmental inspectors and we hope that it will be resolved. In its opinion on Croatia's EU membership bid, the European Commission also warns of a number of unresolved issues in this area. The fact that we meet at every step is wild dumps. In 90% of cases unregulated, uncontrolled, municipal waste mixed with construction waste, secondary raw materials and hazardous waste. All this especially in Dalmatia and along the road, along the tourist roads. then on the permeable karst soil, then they are in danger and the groundwaters. A particular problem again, especially in the coastal part of Croatia, is the slaughterhouse waste that no one has mentioned yet and which is also uncontrollably delayed in forests, scraps and often in municipal dumps. So, completely out of control. Anyone would wish the waste wasn't in his backyard. Or it's as far away as possible to get in the way of someone else. In our care, we send a message to the world about ourselves, not to worry about the waste. And that is why it was high time for this problem to be regulated comprehensively, and that means ensuring mechanisms for the firstment of established plans, to establish the responsibilities of waste management to osiggar and implement the waste management information system in order to define the funding of buildings for storage, recovery and disposal of hazardous waste. All these questions and a series of others defined by this bill are in my opinion well solved and I see that others say so. I'd like to say hello to the accent on recycling because, for example, By decommissioning glass and paper, only by decommissioning municipal waste would it fall to half. I would refer to Chapter 10 of the obligation and responsibility of the waste producer and produce products. Where certain measures are imposed on producers of products and packaging producers. The adoption of sub-legislative regulations will give rise to the assumption that waste producers reduce the amount of waste. To take care of their own final waste management, which will respect the principle by which the pollutants must be taken care of and paid for their waste. Also, compensation for real estate owners located within a radius of 500 metres of storage, storage or disposal buildings, and cities and municipalities where such buildings are located are used by other cities and municipalities. This law lays down payment bonds. The implementation of the waste law is certainly one painful and long-term process, which is more so than the need for continuous investment of substantial resources. Not only in waste management but also in the recovery of existing dumps, or the removal of wild dumps to fill the necessary personnel, and a number of sublegal regulations should be adopted to ensure timely and effective application of the waste law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28703	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Miroslav Korenik.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28704	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is undeniable that this law addresses a very important issue both for local communities and for the general public, meaning the social community. However, it seems to me that everyone in this area is late from local and regional self-government units to the state. Already with the question that we are constantly prolonging the obligation to adopt spatial plans where units of local and later regional self-government should put into spatial plans places where space will be reserved for waste dumps, up to when and how we will build. Because the fact is indisputable to us is that psychosis has come to us, it's probably on the waves of democracy that just nobody wants someone else's junk. It's kind of become a fashion proverb when it's supposed to define these things. I myself witnessed in the area of the Varazdin County which, as I pointed out, appeared to me at the end of 1999 that year as the first county in Croatia as its own spatial plan. And she found strength and defined what seven potential dump sites I want. Everything was done with a lot of resistance from local communities. Now that one has to determine and finally tell the establishment of one such dump then it turns out that no municipality or city simply wants it. I understand why, because every mayor, every municipal chief prefers to deal with far more profitable and for his political success more important and for his thinking more probative things. It's easier to build apartments, build another municipal infrastructure, but when the dump comes to a problem, then all the masks fall. No one wants to take responsibility. That is why I think that the Minister is absolutely right, because she also experienced it when she was the mayor of Zagreb and in the contacts she has in Varazdin County is an improbable fact that none of them, for example, the town of Varazdin does not have too much desire to provide space for the dump. Why? There can always be some excuse. It's not just the town of Varažidin. I'm telling him that first we sweep at our doorstep because that's where I live. The fact is that we will always find the archeologist that underneath the underground of the Varazdin County we have a sufficient quantity of quality drinking water, and the town of Varazdin pa. However, the fact is also that the technical conditions we have today can ensure that the soil is impermeable and that the deposit is established. However, there is always a question of how rational it is for a municipality or city to have a touch. And that's exactly where I should be involved, and I'm sorry that there is no minister at this time, but I assume that one of her associates will respond, as much as still in this Croatian government's programme and this ministry, it's about to remain that pretext of regional waste dumps that the last government was working with. In this way we have heard already in the discussions that were during today, that from the occasion in Germany to just over a million inhabitants come a deposit or one location for the dump. It works in too much precious space on one side. Too much expensive technology on the other hand, to make small units of local or regional self-government, therefore there should be certain amounts of waste. There should be a certain space and a certain number of inhabitants to do something about it. In doing so, we all still experience that the cost of providing municipal waste is also the social category. What this law passed earlier was not clearly specified, these are the fees that go both to citizens living up to 500 metres away from such a dump and to units of local self-government that will receive a certain fee because the quality of space is lost or the attractiveness of space and everything else. However, all users must pay. We have to educate our citizens more than ever to have as little waste as possible on one side, but what is permanently deposited is simply costing and that it can't be a social category as it has been so far. That is why I personally support the adoption of this law, however, there will always be misunderstandings on the route of the municipalities and cities on the one hand, the county on the other hand, the state on a very rare level because everyone will have the opportunity and the need to transfer responsibility to the other. That's how I would behave, I understand that that's how the mayors and the mayors and the county and the county heads behave. Because on one side, it is easier for the county to determine the areas to be kept for certain purposes, but it is harder to make a final decision to build in that and that place. That is why I warn, as other colleagues have already warned, that the deadlines given here are inappropriate. Because if, at the state level, the Government or the Ministry must adopt its sublegal acts first, and then it must adopt both strategies and everything else, or supplement them. Then there is too little time after the local elections when the municipal and city councils, and the county parliaments, are yet to be established, to bring the other documents within 5 months afterwards. So it seems to me by the beginning of October next year. And that's why I would suggest that maybe the deadlines are going to make something easier, because how do you sanction those who don't bring in certain documents? So, once again, I am supporting the adoption of this law with some of the suggestions that I have made and perhaps that an even more high quality and stronger emphasis is on the responsibility of local communities to adopt and implement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28705	So, total support and vote, right? Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Ivan Chehok.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28706	... My colleagues in Korenik had not been willing enough to agree in the town of Varazdin with the neighbouring municipality and then, under the exception of the water layers, it was not done. [[Last-on speaker]] That's not true first. Mr. Korenika, when your party was in power in the '80s, there was a general plan where it was a water layer, and this particular chapter that I headed against your wishes, because you expected us to have nowhere to drive the waste. We took care of the waste, he drove away regularly, there were no problems and incidents, and I must warn you as a member of the county chiefship that the minister made it very clear to the mayor that it wasn't enough to have only 7 or 8 locations in the plan, but that there must be one dump for, you didn't do...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28707	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28708	Wait a minute, I can finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28709	You've corrected...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28710	I haven't fixed it yet. ... You didn't do it, and only 30% of that waste is communal. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I ask you, where will you drive 65% of industrial waste as a member of the headship?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28711	You're out of time, Your Honor. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28712	Well, Article 209 was injured because Mr. Chehok, who, by the way...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28713	No injured article 209, we've already resolved that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28714	He was hurt, sir. He wasn't correcting the quote. He was polymizing with me about something that had nothing to do with this. Excuse me, Mr. Vice President. Besides...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28715	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed proponent of the Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28716	Mr. Korenika said the Varazdin County was the first in the country to have a spatial plan with a specific location as early as 1999. That's not true. And because of the public and everything, I know that it's always a desire to be Varazdinska before Međimurska, but Međimurska brought it back to 96.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28717	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28718	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I support this law and consider it truly high-quality, quite specific, comprehensive and accurate. It is simply a law of conduct that will be able to be very effective in starting from this stagnation point in which the waste management of Croatia is concerned, a positive process that we all want to run. In these 108 articles and 7 chapters, literally all areas affecting the problem of waste are covered and specified. What is not precise is provided by sublaws, rules within very short deadlines against which some colleagues here are protesting. Convinced that this is a process that needs to be initiated, and powerfully to make up for the time, I, contrary to those who had an objection that the law should not be adopted by an emergency procedure, I say, not only the law by an emergency procedure, but by an urgent procedure and by all the things that the law foresees, because the dimensions of this problem, I will look back on a few sentences, are such that we really have to do it as decisively as possible, as quickly as possible. Croatia annually produces about 4 million tonnes of waste, excluding forest waste and waste. We don't even have accurate data on hazardous waste. The estimated amount is about 100,000 to 200,000 tonnes a year. Technology and culture, I'm going to say waste management is very low, waste selection by type separation does not satisfy. The separation and collection of glass, the paper is mostly symbolic, as well as other waste usable as secondary raw materials with the possibility of recycling and reuse, so it is surprising that we have to import it, because of our own waste we are not able to achieve secondary raw materials by selecting. The technology that prevails is the delay, therefore the most neural form, the most environmentally risky and economically expensive, even if it does not seem so at first sight, especially in wild dumps and those being served, it does not seem to be the most expensive method of depositing, because it does not take into account the values of the waste-destroyed space. It is alarming that more than 90% of the dump is unarranged, technically primitive, and ownership is unsettled. There is no control over most of the hazardous waste, and construction waste is rarely used for creative initiatives in the state of the coastal line. The slaughter waste of anonymous suppliers tends to feed the ignored species. For a country that seriously counts on tourism as one of the main economic activities, this situation is even more serious, as the duration of such a situation threatens and pollutes not only our living environment and natural beauty, but it endangers the possibility of the development and growth of Croatia's gross social product. It is no secret that the European Commission's evaluations are warning, i.e. that today's situation, if we do not change it quickly, can compromise the process of approaching the European Union. So, I welcome the practicality and comprehensiveness of the solutions that are in the articles of this law, and I am pleased to add the signed declaration of compliance with the legal gains of the European Union. That the government is aware of the importance of this problem and determined to address it, I read it in Articles 13, 2 and 3 of the articles that upset my colleague, Stazic, which explicitly states that waste management is of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The interests of the Republic of Croatia have been explicitly declared. That, of course, and responsibility. In paragraph 2, the State shall assume responsibility for hazardous waste, and in the follow-up, the line of responsibility shall be quite precisely determined for all types of waste and in cases where the perpetrator of the pollution incident remains undetectable. And then you know exactly who has to do what. Welcome, the necessary and commendable determination I also see in Article 21(4) which, for cases where units of local and regional self-government in their spatial plans do not determine locations intended for the disposal, recovery, or recycling and storage of waste, the decision will be made by the Government, literally. That means, no more slacking up on that plan and playing one tactics that it's best that my garbage be in someone else's backyard. In particular, he would refer to chapter 10. "Obligations and liability of manufacturers, products and waste producers". Today, reading the daily press, I noticed a rather large, noticeable, bombistic article in which manufacturers are concerned that this legal provision could result in a considerable cost for them and then find an argument that they would not pay for those packaging wastes that are placed on the market, so in the Croatian environment, but only that part of how it is collected. And as it collects very little, 10% of what is placed would of course have less cost. However, Croatia would not have less waste than even more. Thus, he does not give in to such efforts. Those who produce waste and who place it must immediately pay one percent of which we will fund the collection and deposit of that waste. Mine, too, is a suggestion to be mandatory with the manufacturer, counting primarily on packaging waste, including importers because they as well as producers import products in some packaging which then ends up in Croatia as a waste that pollutes our environment. They should be immediately at the entrance, so in customs, it is best to pay one tax which is determined for everything necessary to collect and deposit the waste, or recycle, or in any other way take care of it. What I'm proposing to add to that is good for two reasons. On the one hand, it would also encourage manufacturers and importers to make sure that they rationalise the quantities and types of packaging, i.e. waste, and on the other, they would receive considerable funds for something that needed a lot of money in Croatia given the non-building of the facility for that purpose. And to conclude, in this law, I see a strong instrument in the hands of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and all the participants of its implementation, which, with the Environmental Protection Fund and the pre-accession funds of the European Union, can indeed drive Croatia to qualify, equipment and really take care of waste, for the purity of our beautiful. But the minister would recommend something else. To launch one educational-promising campaign, to actually sensitize and mobilize the entire population. Because the success of the action, and this is not only the adoption and vote of the law, but also the action, the success of the action really depends on each citizen, not only symbolically but literally to the extent that it will adapt itself to the necessary prescribed governments and how much it will affect the creation of a single atmosphere, that waste management is extremely important for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28719	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Damir Spaincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28720	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary. Well, here's the thing. I'm just going to say a few sentences about this law, which I will certainly personally support and congratulate the minister and my associates on the law, and I am particularly pleased with what the minister said in one of her speeches, that we should solve the problem together. So he practically offers to all of us here who are in this assembly, but also to the wider professional public cooperation which can be seen that it is also embedded in the proposal for this law. I'm not talking about Milka Chocolate and those other things, so problems. It is alu-foli and how to take care of it because in areas where I come from, and these are areas of special state concern, which is about Croatia, there are other problems. We seek, therefore, to take care of waste as more developed parts of Croatia. First of all, I am thinking about Zagreb because my colleagues were talking about it, and I would say something else here, and I would pray that Mrs. Minister doesn't get me wrong. It will probably be about cooperation with the Ministry of Reconstruction and Development, which is now the Ministry of Tourism and the rest. So it's about construction waste. Namely, there are about 5 thousand more of them in the area of Pakrac and Lipik, not to mention the other municipalities of Požeko-Slavon County, and certainly there are also talk about Banovina and Kordun and Eastern Slavonia and about the person and other parts of Croatia where the war has done great horrors. So, in that material sense. So, a large number of objects present a major threat to local environments right now. First of all, it's water flow pollution. We know that there are many water streams in these areas, but even these 12 years, as long as it has been, 13 years since the destruction of these objects because of their war activities, surely it represents one danger, so in a segment that we're talking about, about the Law. In fact, it's not just classic construction waste, we know there's a whole series of others in that category of special waste. This is, therefore, Article 104(1) point 3. So these are all the objects that have been found, therefore, in these objects. Of course these facilities also have that safety component, which is therefore the safety of children and other people who, she says, live in those areas. In fact, we have a whole series of villages that, where there won't be renovations, simply won't be, but in the law we're talking about, we're going to have to remove these objects. So I would therefore ask, here, and some attention therefore to these areas and to how to solve this problem, therefore, to remove these objects. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The government may also make individual plans for the management of certain categories of waste. Whether it's an implant or somewhere else, I'll leave it to you anyway. And now the other, and certainly the removal, and that is the economic, financial component that is important for the units in these areas of local administration, which is the removal of these objects. So, campaigns to remove these facilities will certainly be followed by construction operations, so I also see multiple benefits because I appreciate that only in the area of Pacrac and Lipik there are about 5,000 other residential and commercial buildings, so if we multiply it by about 100 cubic metres, 100 cubic meters, so we see that this is a huge amount of waste. Thus, we can say that they will be employed, that local construction operations can be employed. I believe that in pre-accession funds, there are also certain means for this purpose, and what is special, and that is the way, therefore, to take care of this waste, recycling and depositing this waste whether for some major infrastructure operations, etc., but I leave it to the profession. And finally, let me welcome and support once again this Law that you have proposed to us, Madam Minister and your Ministry, and please indeed, here is some attention, knowing that it will require special resources because it is therefore a large area. But at least, here are certain priorities that will come safely from the county and the cities of that area. And what's very important, and in this way we're going to stop a depressing war atmosphere that has still remained in those areas as long as these wars have destroyed our facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28721	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Zdravko Sočković.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28722	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Madam Minister and Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a Waste Act that is very important for the Republic of Croatia, and given the unresolved problems related to waste management. The problem of waste management is probably one of the biggest problems of local self-government, which unfortunately it will not be able to solve alone without the great help of the state. The first complete Waste Act in Croatia was adopted in 1995, and a new Waste Act was passed last year. Based on the 95th Law, implementing rules were also adopted, the Regulation on waste types, after entry with packaging waste, the Regulation on waste management and others. We have to be honest and admit that the implementation of the waste regulations is very low, and sometimes almost nothing. There is a number of difficulties in implementation, which is due to the inaccuracies of the prescribed solutions, which is due to the lack of an adequate network of buildings and waste management devices. We have no legal basis for fair real-cost compensation, but no incentive economic measures for waste management. In any event, the weak implementation of the Law other than those reasons also relates to insufficient capacities, inspections, environmental protection and the competent authorities of the administration which are unable to systematically monitor and improve the implementation of these regulations. Of course, the development of the region, i.e. the economic power of each county, has a major impact on this. How unfortunately I come from the county, which, for example, is about Istria, Zagreb and northern Croatia, is 30 % behind, it is quite clear that we need serious help from the state to implement this Law in Brod-Posavina County. The European Commission, which sees waste management as the most problematic area of environmental protection in Croatia, warns us that the existing implementing rules have not been implemented, that we do not have a waste management plan, that recycling and care are insufficient, the system of return and collection is not implemented, in general all this far from European standards and norms. I personally believe that if we started to extract glass, paper and metal and thus went into recycling, why do we have enough capacity, we'd cut waste at the dumps by 50%. Besides, we'd do two more good things. By the way, they would develop economic operators and stop importing waste. In the Republic of Croatia, we collect about 60 thousand tonnes of paper annually, and annually we import old paper for the needs of our industry at 500 thousand tonnes. In any event, certain items of import should be burdened with the price of packaging disposal. Some 4 million tonnes of waste, which is delayed in 125 registered dumps and unfortunately, in a large number of unregistered and wild dumps, are produced annually in Croatia. I would like to express my appreciation for this proposal for the Law, which shows the exact division of relations between the state, county, municipalities and cities, and the Law is fully in line with the European Union as well. And for all this, I think we should all support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28723	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Zdenka Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28724	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister. You have announced in your opening speech the first reason for the adoption of the Law under the urgent procedure of the proposed Law, which I fully support. But don't be angry if I say that I support this law even more for the reasons, i.e. from the analysis of the situation relating to the topic already addressed, and I hope after the adoption of this Law in the Croatian Parliament that Croatia and still and this state of affairs will be one of the countries of the European Union, i.e. Europe or the old continent, which is certainly among the first regardless of the real state and on, or the analysis already proposed here in the adoption of a constitutional basis for the adoption of the law... in the assessment of the situation. The situation is certainly worrying and I think I support it, once again, I stress this Law because of the analysis of the situation in which the Croatian State is located and I hope that it will continue to be an example country in and outside the European Union. Since I come from the area of special state interest and the Brdo-Mountain area where this problem is certainly one of the major problems in this area, and I met last summer with problems related to waste disposal, I will not list cities or municipalities, or small municipalities of particular national interest, which surely have a problem, but by resolving, by adopting this Law they will be in one more favourable situation, especially when we refer to Article 41, i.e. a permit for the collection, use and disposal of waste, so all Articles 41, 42, 43 to 46 have worked out what small local units are facing. And in particular, I don't know if it's acceptable for Madam Minister to issue a permit on a certain deadline, and for the longest time in five years, because of the responsibility of those people who are going to get this license, I would reduce it by 3 years, and after a certain period, or after three years, I would only then issue that licence after five years, and I would also link that article to Article 55 concerning concessions, precisely from the irresponsibility of those who receive concessions to 5 years, and in the first, first, to the concession, I would grant him a concession by three years. For the reason that concessionaires in the area of special state interest and mountainous areas unfortunately broke those laws, i.e. a tender that was called and extended their concession, i.e. their territory against the law, so it has often happened that this summer few small municipalities in the area did not protest, or people were not protesting because of the collection of waste from an area that does not belong to the concessionaire, i.e. its area. That would be the reason, to cut the concession for the first time from 5 to 3 years. And I will also look back on Article 18 as my colleague Jure Bitunjac spoke, and I will very much underline Article 18(2) if the person responsible for performing the municipal service and maintaining cleanliness in the city, i.e. the municipality in accordance with the regulation governing the municipal economy does not take care of waste, which the unknown person has put off outside the dump, that waste will take the county to the burden of the city budget, i.e. the municipality. I don't support the perpetrators who do it. And if there were no such perpetrators, then there would be no canyons, rivers, all Croatian rivers, rivers Zrmanja, Cetina, Krka, Vrlika, etc. We would not rather admire their beauty and beautiful canyon and the stream of already addressed rivers decorated by the cold, mattresses, ovens and not to list any waste. And that is why this article is certainly necessary. If it doesn't exist, I think what happens often. I had a case in my municipality, and when I warned the person in charge of the municipal economy or the purity that it happened in the neighborhood that the waste was placed right next to the road, that it was his responsibility. Then he said that he couldn't guard our road or a small road day and night, he didn't have to, but I'm not sure that those in charge of cleanliness are keeping it as much as it's allowed and according to human possibility. It is not enough to sing "Beautiful Croatia and the Adriatic coast, more flowers less trash" and it is not enough just on balconies and parks to nurse flowers. Only then will it be enough when all those who cover, which includes this law or all those who should respect this law, not just the ministry or parliamentary representatives or the Croatian government. Each individual in the Croatian state is covered by this law and when it is applied by each of our individuals, so there is often a word of recycling here today. I hope that in our homes, so here in the City of Zagreb, all MPs do so to recycle their waste, so let us set an example for those who do not, and you will see that this law that is passed by emergency procedure will do so that the Croatian state and in this state will still be an example for the countries of the European Union or beyond its borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28725	Replica's esteemed representative of the Korenika.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28726	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ms. Babić-Petricevic, saying about the duration of the concessions, argues that any concessions or concessionaries should work on a shorter period of time or three years, respectively. I can say very responsibly and clearly and precisely that those who want to go to the concession have quite high costs immediately at the start and if they want to return in any way what they have invested and everyone is doing business to make and earn and return invested then there should be no five but even increase. And there are other ways for those who do not comply with the concession contract to be deprived of their right and to terminate the contract or to assign such a contract to another company that will carry out its activity in accordance with this law, sublegal acts and with the contract they sign.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28727	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28728	My colleague, Korenik, I have no doubt about the high costs of concessionors receiving concessions or winning in three or five years. This does not mean that their responsibility can be reduced and that they can do what they do. So I think the law can also get used to what is necessary, which is that they respect the law and the area they get. You know that, not only in the part where I mentioned today, since I kept mentioning the area of special state interest and mountainous areas, this is unfortunately happening throughout Croatia. We must also make those who receive the concession and set an example for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28729	Thank you. We finished this morning's session. Continuation is at 3:00. It's our guest, Anton Perusko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28730	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session and the debate on the Proposal for a Waste Law. Honorable representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28731	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Of course, already from numerous east and club representatives, as well as representatives in individual debates, I also support that there is one important law before us that should not only be because of some pressure or conditions that we need to meet for the accession of the European Union, but I would say that it must be both the fruit and the product of our consciousness, our wishes and our commitment to protect the human environment. I'm sure the solutions offered in this bill are ahead of the time in which we live, but for what? Because probably over the past decades we've been cassing just in time and despite all of our happiness, the natural environment in Croatia has not been devastated to the extent in which it is in some other countries, but because of the awareness that we are obliged to preserve it is that what we have is actually borrowed from our grandsons, not inherited from our fathers and grandfathers. It is our obligation, with sustainable development, to return that environment to the extent possible to our grandchildren. It's something in today's globalised world, making it clear that I simply need to get redistribution of profits or profits or whatever you want, from producers through processors to distributors of many goods simply has to redistribute profits and profit must be generated on some other activities, which is the processing of these secondary raw materials. I will talk about it a little bit more when it comes to the agenda point of the proposal to step up the Republic of Croatia from the project Adria, and I would not explain it more widely today by this point. However, I want to say for sure that every part of our homeland should be preserved, it is necessary to preserve lakes, rivers, forests, mountains, but given the end from which I come, I will point to the necessity and need of protecting the Adriatic and point to some dangers that we are, which the Adriatic is exposed to, in fact, to its devastation. It's a natural resource, a recapital of great and huge possibilities, but not limitless, and the sooner we realize that it needs to be protected, the better for us and for those who will come after us. The ambitious measures they take cannot deliver concrete results and it is also good to pass this law to preserve, among other things, the wealth that we have in the form of the Adriatic. It's enough to dive into the blue depths and see what it's really about, in which way the sea floor is concreteized, in fact, with simple nylon bags, not to talk about waste caused by disposal, depositing in the sea, throwing off ships, inverted packaging and so on. And in order for the international maritime organisation to jump into these problems, the International Convention on the Prevention of Protection, on the prevention of sea pollution from ships, has introduced a very practical solution, and that is why I point out this, so-called. I.D.'s off. And it is known that every ship has as many crew members, it is known how much solid waste is produced per person per day, it is known how many wastewaters the ship transports in its bilge, it is known that the capacity of wastewater separators and on board the exact books, the documents of that waste, the books of waste and the books of liquid waste from which it is seen during a specific period of time the amount of waste produced and the amount of waste that it has produced during the journey must be delivered to the port of the ship. This waste must be accepted by an authorised organisation, and this waste must be in ship's books called the book of the bay, i.e. the book of garbage certified that it is really this and taken over, so there is no longer the possibility that the crew of the ship should put it into the sea, throw it into the sea and pollute the human environment and thus there is the possibility of controlling this waste, its movements which I consider to be significant and this is actually the redistribution of profits, because when the number of "Jadrolinia" of the national shipowners comes from Rijeka to Split or vice versa or another port, then more the waste that once ended in the sea can no longer happen than to surrender in port and therefore pay. It's this waste redistribution, and the sooner we figure it out, the better for us and in the further development of this law by sublegal acts and by positive practice, I point out this problem, because we need to get into a situation where there's a waste cadastre and there's actually a personal map of this waste as well as how it's taken care of. By joining those who have been and discussed in this direction, of course I personally advocate and support the adoption of this law that will protect to the maximum extent possible these resources that we still have at our disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28732	Thank you. Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28733	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The human attitude towards nature is, in fact, characterized by a modern way of looking at, above all, the human attitude towards nature, and certainly the proposal for a law on waste is accompanied by all those solutions to legal proposals that try to balance the way natural resources are used, clearly in order to enlarge and activity, human activity, but with a fundamental goal of protecting space and values that enjoy a special relationship. This Proposal for a Waste Law should, of course, be seen something broader, because its context is also in nature, and also in understanding far broader than the context of the law, so I will look more at the part relating to the coast and islands, and I will try to make a certain relationship with some other laws, in particular the Law on Spatial Planning, which, in its own kind and specific way, of course supports this law as well as the Proposal for a Law on Spatial Planning supports and actually have the same outcomes in their objectives. They want to ensure one quality of life, the quality of resource use, and they practically project and talk about the specific transfer of these inherited values to future generations. Why do I say I'll speak in the context of the coast, the island? For the very reason that this part of our homeland is rightly, rightly and perceived and in the very Law on Spatial Planning with a special valuable landscape, I am primarily thinking about islands, first of all thinking about coasts and its fundamental goal is to create a balance between needs, balance between desires and balance between the possibilities of this space that is self-limited. And what's good, what's kind of like one of the main ideas that goes into the law that regulates space is that that part of the Adriatic coast is like that, that I call it, trying to view it as a unique urban unit. In doing so, it wants to say that this space is in its full value and that it is normally necessary to protect it from these proposals. The proposal of the Waste Law also speaks of everything that is attached to that law. The part that I think is not sufficiently reflected in this Proposal for the Waste Act, when it comes to the values that are primarily related to the sea, islands and our coast, is one fact that we are truly in the land part of large cities, we are familiar with large producers, which are clearly and reproduced by that side product, which is a waste and we can define them, we can base them on this law in a restrictive position that we should and pay for that product by way of which they produce. But it happens at sea, it is a hydrographic institute on several occasions that has found that in recent times, if you are passing, you are staying on those open sides of Croatian islands you see almost every bay, on every island, huge piles of oil derivatives from certain organisms brought by the sea. It is about one systematic and multi-annual pollution of the sea that comes on various sides. In fact, I want to withdraw a syntagm between the fact that we want to pass a law that needs to be correspondence with European practice. So it aims to be equal to the law that will be passed in the Croatian Parliament with one that will be passed in the neighbouring country of Italy or any country of the European Union. With this we want to show not only our commitment to these solutions that the European Union has, but we want to say that we care about these most valuable areas. But unfortunately, it's very difficult and that's why I'm giving this example that sea pollution has one of its specificities, which is finally showing up on either the islands again, either on the islands or along the coast, and that one huge amount of these pollutants that are attacking our most valuable areas, it's about the bay areas, which, after large storms or after ten days of the south, you see what our islands are like that part of it is, you see a huge amount of pollution. And the local self-government itself, unfortunately, on these islands that are clearly equal to their strength, or equal to the number of populations living on those islands, is clearly very little. And that's why I don't think it's simply capable of dealing with such a great burden and such a big problem. And for this reason, the space that we have rightly declared special in relation to others should also have special measures that should primarily reflect that these disasters that occur, which have a significant impact on Croatia's tourist reputation and image, affect the quality of life and stay, affect the flora and fauna, affect one natural cycle, because of course it's not a natural cycle when you come out of one beach that you have no access to on either side but on the sea and that you can't land on the coast because you'll be filled with those oil pollutants, every almost stone and half of that stone is covered with this black evil which is very difficult to clean. Why am I saying this? Because I deeply believe that large cities that have not only a large number of inhabitants, large financial resources, including the great interest of citizens and the public, will be able to resolve the issue of collection, the issue of waste collection, and the resolution of this waste in one appropriate way. The question remains of those, precisely the space that we call the most valuable in other spatial documents, and I fear that this local population and this association, which is based on it, is not able to deal with these problems alone, which will be growing, because by increasing the number of vessels, by increasing the number of people that sails the sea, it is clear that the risk is also increasing precisely from such pollution of that space. And that is why I propose whether this is possible within the framework of an existing law or through measures that only the ministry will prescribe that certain measures have to be particularly focused on these solutions, because I say local self-government unfortunately does not have enough resources or the opportunity to solve it. The second question is, on the islands, how to address the issue of organised waste collection, its destruction, or its sorting or relocation. There used to be a whole project in Sibenik-Knin County that caused a lot of controversy, a lot of it being talked about as a pilot program that should solve the burning plants on the islands, which should be commercial, which should be from Prevlaka to Umag. And unfortunately we're stuck on whether it's our selfishness or because one returner decided on one such project or whether it's a lack of project, I don't know, because I'm not an expert on it. But anyway, I think we need to open up a new perspective on how to deal with it on our islands, because...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28734	My colleague, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28735	Let me just finish. Because if we are not in that particular part of it, we give those solutions that will benefit these islands and those values that we have shown ourselves as the most valuable, then, of course, neither the meaning of this law nor its alignment with the European Union would be the best solution for the citizens themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28736	Thank you. Dear representative Jelena Pavicic Vukicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28737	Thank you, Mr. President and Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, I may have missed it, but actually today in this debate on waste management and in some way about all these problems of disposal and waste treatment, I don't think we've heard one term that seems so particularly interesting to me and it's actually a term of brown gold. The waste is definitely brown gold today, and we have already had a chance to hear in previous discussions that proper processing is being used and primarily by the disposal of such waste can actually make some profits that can further help us protect the environment. The fact is that we're all producing waste and the fact is we can't ask for a solution to that huge party outside our yard. We often actually hear that people agree with the problem of getting rid of different dumps regardless of what kind of waste is involved, but whenever the location selection question comes, we often hear, so why in my community, in my city or in my county. Personally, I am a member of the Committee on Appeals and Citizens' Presentations, and one such case we had the opportunity to consider at the Committee's meeting. What I personally think is important highlighted in this debate is actually the need as a first education. Of course, Ms. Minister is not in your portfolio, but let me say in this debate that all competent institutions, all competent authorities should still work a little harder on education, in fact from preschool to the oldest age of life, because only in this proper education will we become aware of this huge problem of waste disposal and ultimately of some solutions that apply not only in Europe but also in non-European countries. Likewise, environmental protection I think we can help most if we really open the recycling yard and connect the recycling yards to those institutions, those companies that take care of that waste. And finally, let's say, the third measure that I think might help with this big problem is actually that the only ministry to give one additional incentive to local self-government units for the supply of containers for separate collection of waste. In fact, people today, though I think there's this level of consciousness, maybe they're collecting waste separately, but they don't actually have that waste where to put it, or if it's urban environments or even rural ones, we should actually put waste in our own car and, of course, drive for miles in search of containers. I know it's also not in the power of the ministry, but in the form of some kind of guidance, and I think there's a lot of things that could be done about it. I would also like to say something about the problem we are facing in the City of Zagreb as we have heard it many times today is of course about our mobile burner. In 2002, we had this eco-accessor, and unfortunately, to this day, we failed to solve anything in this area. I know that there is actually a conflict of opinion, and also an interest between the competent ministry, between the inspectorates and the City of Zagreb, and in fact, Puto as far as I have knowledge still does not have all the necessary permits to continue his work. What exactly do we have in that interspace? Unfortunately, this dangerous waste that was supposed to be burned there is all. And I would remind you all that the fire in that burner was created right in the storage room and that it was not in any way related to the very process of thermal treatment of this dangerous material. I think that, in fact, everyone should make a contribution to the effort to make that question a word because I think that I will not be wrong if I say that we are aware in Zagreb that we really need to take care of our own waste. Not other people's junk, but we really do have to. Of course, we are against the import of waste, of course we believe that at least on the regional principle of such a combustion plant must be placed in other Croatian regions but what kind of incentive we give to other Croatian regions if we do not find a way to at the very level of the City of Zagreb and we have the facility we actually bring about the purpose and all that waste that is today only deposited and when there can be such an incendiary reaction actually there is no good work for Croatia or at the end of the environment in general. And given the debate that has been held so far, allow me just one more observation. I think that this law that is before us gives one quality incentive, one good solution about how to actually encourage the municipality, the city or the county to have one space on its territory, so space to take care of municipal and other waste. It is, in fact, the ecological rent paid to citizens in an area which is particularly threatened by the reduced value of real estate. In that sense, I would like to point out a positive example of Zagreb's Yakushevec. The city of Zagreb has managed to resuscitate this dump, which unfortunately has been here since the '50s, but has not been systematically taken care of even though there has been a lot of problems and protests for citizens. In fact, the city of Zagreb decided on a human approach and in agreement with citizens who received not only an ecological rental organized a model of improving the quality of life so that our citizens in the area of Jakushec today have quality living conditions, so from communals, water, sewers, gasifications that they actually want to join the heat network and thus to heat themselves up to the construction and repair of facilities that serve social purposes. Today it is actually one city quarter that is arranged almost according to all European standards. The locals are not satisfied with the treatment of the City of Zagreb, and I dare say that this is actually the right form of how to help other environments in this very way, this very model of how other environments manage to address the issue of municipal waste management. In fact, the fact is that even though citizens do not like living near the dumps today, they are less and less opposed to actually living in an environment that is systematically managed even if there is a dump in their backyard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28738	Thank you. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanić. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Zeljko Kurtov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28739	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We are witnessing that in the middle of the tourist season a dump is burned so that the town of Biograd, the Municipality of Pakostane, the highway itself, comes to a standstill on the magistrate's smoke and they can't live on the smell. The lives of people, cattle, and within a few hundred metres of that are also threatened by agricultural areas that are being treated and on which people work and live. The type and harmfulness of waste is very questionable because no one controls and there is no possibility of what ends up on that waste from medicines from hospitals, herbicides, pesticides and who knows what else. Therefore, under the urgent need of this law, it should be brought to life that landfills which have the conditions of offices are subject to the applicable laws and those which do not have it are closed and remedied. But the biggest problem is that small municipalities and cities cannot solve these problems themselves, as stated in the law. Studies should be carried out on how many inhabitants and other waste producers need for economic conditions for the creation of modern buildings for storage, recovery and disposal of waste. It should be kept in mind that not every municipality or town can build its own dumps and thus lead citizens to avoid paying, waste disposal, so we have illegal dumps that literally choke the environment and the periphery of almost all settlements in Dalmatia. I believe that the Ministry should determine how many modern dumps are needed at the level of all Croatia and thus protect citizens from abnormally high utility prices that we are witnessing in certain cities and municipalities. And because of this condition, I welcome the adoption of this Law and I hope that we will deal with it the chaos that governs waste management in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28740	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Nikola Ivanish. I had just read Nikola Vuljanić but it was written, not by Nikola Vuljanić, but by his colleague Ivanis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28741	Thank you very much. Nothing, it's not a lab problem ever. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the debate on the problem of municipal waste in Croatia, it is unnecessary to repeat all the concerns about the currentity and acuteness of the problems that are being seen and through the fact that this problem from the European Union has been set up as the number 1 problem for Croatia and now if it is not a problem for the number 1 Croatia, I believe that the Minister will agree that in the Primorje-Goran County the problem is quite large, and I would say, in terms of the development perspectives of the wider North Adriatic area, it is certainly problem number 1. Because if we look at Croatia in the future, and I see it as, among other things, a healthy food producer and as a tourist destination number 1 Europe, then the problem of waste must be dealt with urgently, and the way things go with it will not be so. And that's why I consider this law from my point of view welcome but at the same time I consider it both good and better compared to the laws of 1995 and 2003. I believe that this law relies on a strategy and therefore closes one round of solving this problem, very logically and of course quality. The debate highlighted the questionability of the application and whether all solutions could be applied. I agree with part of the debate in this regard, but it is certain that it does not change the need to pass a law like this because the issue of law enforcement as well as all other regulations and... in Croatia, the problem of functioning us as a rule of law and in this case, the problem is the functioning of local self-government and whether local self-government is ready to exercise its powers or I think that in this debate we should repeat this question whether we are responsible for decentralisation or whether decentralisation is what we advocate pro-forme or when candy is shared, then we are for decentralisation and when what bitter chestnut should be swallowed we are not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, I think that these provisions in which the government will have to reach for its legal right to resolve what will not be resolved because it will stall and bring some ends to problems, I think that the government will be faced with not only worrying about dangerous waste but will also have to take seriously further care of the communal from the pressure in terms of location, building permits to everything else. From the general debate on the problem of waste, I'd say that, like, I agree with some of the things that have been presented in the debate, and I'm saying so myself. I think that Croatia needs 4 to 6 serious and large municipal waste dumps and that this should be our strategic commitment. I also think that in the future, Croatia will need two burner rooms that will also complete the problem of care and I also think that as responsible people and representatives everywhere and then on the ground and when we perform as activists of our parties, we must tell people that the price they pay today as citizens to take care of total waste has been completed and that there is a period of duplication even more than to be able to finance the quality of what our future depends on. Also in the long-term and very expensive, I strongly support the concept of dopini-free islands when all the overall conditions are met in this country, but we have to program it and then absolutely tend to it. As far as the law is concerned, he really manages a whole range of areas such as category, species, list of waste, such as the order of priorities in management, jurisdiction and accountability. They are well-defined, questions related to, therefore for the dumps and I will also say, unlike some of the debaters, that I seriously support the strengthening, one easy, moderate strengthening of the role of the county that this law in some way brings for a simple reason that at least some ballast towards irresponsibility in certain mini-centres, municipalities and cities can be intervened in that direction, too. And at the end of the debate, I would like to point out something also for the public and for your sake, Madam Minister, which is yes, I think it is my duty as a representative from our county to say a few words about the Soviet, about the Black Cave for the reason that the Croatian public should know. I absolutely think that you and your Ministry are seeing the problem, you know it, and you're on your way to get rid of it. The fact is that within six kilometers of the Kvarner coast, somewhere along the lines of Kvarner, Preluk, Opatija, we have a lake of chemicals in the crash, it's a karst area. The house, my family house is a mile-long air line of two dumps, but it's one communal waste of a tech that was filled by the river industry, but it was filled by an INA that didn't fail, which is highly profitable and I think the question and responsibilities in the INA recovery are open and that it should not be forgotten today when it was partially sold. It is a karst terrain between the Black Cave, Sovya and Kvarner Bay, there is a large cave which Croatian archaeologists explored in 1930. It's called the Zamet Cave. So it's a field full of cracks and spins. What would happen if the contents of the Black Cave, the Soviet broke into the Prelučka cove? We could say goodbye not for a while, I'd rather not speak for what. For this reason, I end my debate by supporting this law. I absolutely support your current insistence on, I think the Ministry is on our ground present. I think the Black Cave, the Soviet must be of priority because if an incident occurs with it, it will not be an incident of Viskova, a municipality on whose territory, or Rijeka or County. It will be a Croatian incident with major inconspicuous consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28742	Thank you. Dear Representative Zdenko Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28743	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, I'll say a few words very briefly. So this law is really one set of highest standards from the domain, from this area that we could see. The law is first whole, it regulates matter by, by all grounds, from, and by all kinds of waste, and at all levels of responsibility. So from the Ministry to the local community. However, the law itself is all the best and I think that in any case I support it and I think it is a set of good solutions, but I think it is necessary to say a few words that it is somehow ahead of time. So, I'm afraid, I'm afraid that he doesn't challenge in the practice of problems as he has caused the law, and a regulation based on the law on spatial planning, where in fact the whole area of interest, therefore of particular interest, has come into one blockade, so I think we should take a good look at this transition period, so the transitional period since when the law is to come into force, that something actually happens, which, which we wouldn't want to do. The question is how many current concessionaires dealing with the collection, transport and disposal of waste are ready, namely how technically, humanely and in every way, are prepared to adapt to these legislations within the time limit provided for by the legislator. What will happen, what will happen to how much such a concessionary present or future is not ready to meet these conditions. So, don't let any vacuums and problems happen that might cause us to have a lot of problems. Secondly, I think that's where my colleague Peru was talking about the problem of taking waste off the ships. We are a maritime land, we have a lot of water objects that cruise and sail our aquariums, and they are also large waste producers and I think that in this law we should find a few provisions that would regulate that problem, because the waste from the ships that they produce is causing major problems in space, that is, in our aquarium. The other thing I might be thinking about is the question of the buildings that are mentioned here in the law, the waste disposal building on our islands. In fact, by looking idyllic, idyllic, or looking ideally, I am also in principle advocating that our islands as pearls are without these waste management structures, but in practice or in some transitional period I think it will cause us great problems. I am not sure that in such a near future the island of Losinj will drive its waste to the central county dump in Mariscina, Rijeka. I'm not convinced of that, believe me, and I don't believe it'll be the same waste from the island of Rab or from the island I don't know Pag or any other distant island. So, there, this problem may have to be a little more complex, in order to avoid problems, I say similar to those caused by the Law on Spatial Planning, or the Government Regulation. Now, with these thoughts and really well-intentioned suggestions that we meet in the local environment in practice, I think this law is a very valuable and good document that solves this problem in one whole way and with these possible observations and suggestions, I think it can be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28744	Thank you. The final review of Minister Marina Matulović-Dropulić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28745	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I thank you for everything you've said so far. It is obvious that you support the main intensities of this law, that the manufacturer pays, that recycling is done as best as possible, means that we are really going to go to a serious separate collection, that in this way we are going to reduce the waste, and in all this, the state is going to help, as much as possible. And we're going to get some amendments, some amendments, and we're going to accept, so we're going to improve the part that we might have possibly, that maybe we could have written something better, but it's good to put up with the amendment and then something can be accepted. What I think should answer to these two, three things. In fact, the fact is that the resistance to implementing this law will be. I was also talking today about some of the resistances that we've already encountered when the law itself was working on, but we all have to work together to simply reduce that resistance, to convince people that it's in the interest of all of us, not just individuals. What we're also missing is an inspection. We are calling, as you have seen, on two occasions already for inspectors and here and I ask you also, when you see that a tender for environmental inspectors has been opened in your field, you may find people who would still want to work in the administration. I know it's much nicer probably anywhere else, but management requires certain and knowledge and certain, but it has low wages, so it's a bigger, bigger problem. There, you can all help us together, this one, you can do a lot of good. As far as the island is concerned, we didn't write that the islands can't be dumps, but we wrote that they have to be the same as that, we don't think it can be solved within a year or two, but it's certain that our ultimate wish is that the islands don't have big dumps, that there's only a certain time of waste being collected and that this waste is then transported. But clearly, it will depend on each island in particular, if someone can organize everything as it should be, then there's no problem. And only two, three words about the regulation. You know, there's a lot of resistance to the regulation that we've brought on the protected coastal belt. Of course there's a lot of resistance to that because we've banned those things that could have been done by now. However, speaking from one to the other like those who worked on wind power plants, so those who have quarrys, so those who now wanted to build huge tourist zones, call tourists under quotes with large apartments, villas and similar for sale, the situation is slowly calming down. And it is not true that the regulation has stalled, the regulation has empowered construction in all cities and towns where over 50% of the permanent population lives, but it has made it impossible to build large tourist zones where no plans have been made and we will continue to defend it, because we think that such areas should be protected and in these areas only what the plan is, what the plan will provide. It is clear that those who are no longer allowed 20 km of chain around the island or coast in isolated construction areas, where there should be a house on the house, where a man who does not have such a house cannot approach the coast, normally that such things come to the press the most, but if you notice, we answer every such thing. I have so far held at least 10 meetings with the mayors, mayors, directors of the office, those who issue local and construction permits, and there is only a problem in people and nothing else is the problem. And when it comes to all of us, we'll be able to handle these things a lot easier. And around Zagreb. As far as Puta is concerned, Puto is an object that was built as Mr. Stazic said, just now, exclusive for the recovery of what was found on Jakushevec so that the Jakushec could be recovered. Jakuševec's recovery was early in 96 and everything was normal until the time when Puta's management didn't know how to do its job. And when they started importing and God asked you where to get all the waste, store it in a place that was never intended for storage at all, but exclusively for distribution. So there couldn't have been a certain waste in that space for two days, let alone two or three months as it has been. And that's what it means, and that's why it happened. And if the City of Zagreb wanted to invest 800,000 euros in the adaptation of the road, then the situation would be different. However, there has been a balling with the ministry, you give us a guarantee that when we invest 800,000 euros, then we will invest it. I mean, guarantee they'll be able to produce it. However, such guarantees are not available until all the elements are examined after adaptation and then something can be done. So I think we should go home and solve our problems and then ask for those solutions to someone else. Well, I thank you again. I'm saying, we're going to accept some amendments, and I hope we're all going to have a good time with this law together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28746	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Waste Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 208 The debate on the text of the law is over. I ask the gentleman for peace. We have ten amendments. Minister Matulovic Marina Dropulic. Here you are, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28748	It is not accepted for this reason because this concept in law is fully in line with the directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28749	I am voting on this amendment. There's no representative who suggested it. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 2nd Amendment of Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28750	It is not accepted because the same person has to take care of landfills both during and after disposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28751	I'm putting it to the vote. Who's in favor of this amendment because there are no MPs? One vote. The amendment didn't go through. 3rd Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28752	It's unacceptable. Everything is in line with the directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28753	Who's up for that amendment? No one. 4th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28754	It is not accepted because the Croatian Parliament brings a strategy and a plan that is more detailed is brought by the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28755	There's no representative of Lesar. Please vote. Who's up for that amendment? I'm saying he's got two votes. Amendment of 5th Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28756	It is not accepted because it is the duty of the County and the City of Zagreb to implement the measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28757	The representative of Nenad Stazic is gone, so we vote on him. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 6th representative of Zvonimir Mršić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28758	Amendments are not accepted. It is left to discretionary units of local self-government to establish criteria for cost-accounting, waste management but it is important that unless it accepts what it says as a possibility in the law that it has an obligation to determine them in accordance with the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28759	Thank you. Because of the fact that I do not give Zvonimir Mršić to vote on the amendment. Who's in? No one. 7th representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28760	It's unacceptable. Data... they are delivered annually to the waste cadastre and they are permanent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And five years is a long enough period to verify the authenticity of the data delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28761	I am voting on that amendment since counsel Lesar is missing. Who's in? I find that the amendment has received two votes. 8th Representative Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28762	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28763	It becomes an integral part of the law. 9th, also representing Mark Shirtz.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28764	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28765	It becomes an integral part of the law. And the 10th representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28766	It's not accepted and it's about the amendment already submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28767	Because I am not giving the amendment to the vote by President Nenad Stazic. Who's in? No one. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal of the Waste Act. Please, let's get on with the vote. The result? I find that, unanimously with 80 votes, the Waste Act was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendments adopted. We would now return to what we couldn't yesterday because the Committee was not a new decision, the amended Decision appointing the president of the National Science Council. He discussed it today. So, - Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Science Council. The proposal was delivered by the Government. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I'd like Secretary of State Free Taker to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28769	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Let us remind ourselves of the legal obligations that lie ahead. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law is a National Science Council has a president and 12 members of which 4 scientists are employed by scientific advisors at scientific institutes, 6 regular professors, and 3 persons outside the system of scientific activities and higher education. The proposal that you received after the consent and after, I would say, the broad consultation on this is complete, complete and, by our conviction, meets the structure that is set out in this provision. Allow, first of all, a brief review of the proposal for a letter you have regarding the candidate for the post of President, President of the Council. It's certainly about Mrs. Professor Dr. Maria Ivesic. Marija Ivezić, born 47th, belongs to the scientific field of biotechnology, the scientific branch of agronomy. She's a regular professor at the Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Osijek. He's been calling a regular professor since he was 96. What may be of considerable importance to you to point out is its, here, 10-year membership in this Council, which actually meets the need for continuity in the work of this extremely important body. As for four scientists in the scientific call of a scientific consultant employed at the institutes, please give a brief review. First, among them, doctors are of course science all, Ljiljana Kaliterna-Lipončan, an area of social science, a field of psychology, born 54., employed at the Institute of Social Sciences Ivo Pilar in Zagreb. The second, too, is Mirjana Ekert-Maxic. Scientific field of natural science oli chemistry, born 44., employed at Ruđer Bošković Institute. Next, candidate Gorazd Nikić, scientific advisor, field of social science, economy, employed at the Economic Institute. By the way, it is recommended that these persons be competent and as broad as possible scientific areas and as I would say, recommended for scientific and teaching activities as well. Here, for example, he is a regular professor at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb. The fourth among them, scientific adviser Krešimir Pavelić, is a scientific field of biomedicine, natural science, born 52nd, employed at the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. This is one of the names we could talk a lot more about. Probably because of the time and equal presentation of all the candidates, I won't go any further. Among other things, I just want to say that he has recently been elected, until now he has been a member of the Republic of Croatia at an international conference on molecular biology of EMBO, and now he has recently been vice president and an extremely significant organisation. As for the candidate for six regular professors, let it be brief. The first among them is Professor Simun Angelinovic of Split, born 58th, area of biomedicine, field of medicine, regular professor at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Split. Furthermore, professor Dr Josip Brnic, field of technical science, field of engineering, regular professor of the University of Rijeka Technical Faculty, more publicly known as the former Rector and Rector of the University of Rijeka. He's also an associate, among other things, with the HAZU. Now Dr. Nikola Buble, art field, musicology, professor at the Art Academy in Split. Professor Dr Nikola Jakšić, humanist scientific field, scientific field of history, University of Zadar, was born in 49. Next, academic doctor Mislav Ježić, humanist area, field of Czech Slovak Slovenes, employed at the Faculty of Philosophy in Zagreb, regular member of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. That's the candidates from this line. And finally, like I said, three candidates from the line outside the science system, that's, uh, excuse me a second. Outside the science system are Dalibor Marijanović, Poliklinika St. Duh Zagreb, natural area of mathematician Alenka Markotić Immunological Institute, so biomedicine and Krunoslav Kovačević also outside the system in the first version misspelled that they were natural sciences, not these are technical sciences chemical engineering. Well, Mr. President, in short, that's a brief review of the candidate list. I'm at my disposal for further clarifications.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28770	Thank you very much. President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Honored Representative Petar Selem, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28771	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has discussed this proposal twice at its last and present session. On the occasion of the first debate, it was concluded that the balance of certain professions was not best hit in the proposal. And in agreement with the promoter, we have concluded that it is better that the Proposer himself revises this proposal a little bit and finally delivers it in that form that will satisfy all scientific disciplines that must be present in one such proposal, in one such Council. That's what's done. In particular, it was concluded that the art profession was missing and that the legal and economic profession was lacking, it was settled with Professor Bubla's proposal covering musicology and with Professor Goraz Nikic's proposal covering both law and economy, because he is a lawyer and an economist according to the profession. I mean to achieve a pretty good equilibre, representation and profession, representation and region and finally a professional level required by the National Council for Science. In view of all this, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture unanimously concluded after the debate was held that the Croatian Assembly was proposed to adopt this proposal on the appointment of the president and members of the National Council for Science in this form, as finally proposed by the Proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28772	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Honorable representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28773	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a few words. Today it seems to me that in Croatia more and more popular talk about science, importance, place, the role science must play in society. It is known that in the world there is more and more talk of so-called. knowledge-based societies, knowledge-based sociality, etc. So here I would briefly comment on what my personal sense of knowledge, role, knowledge and science must be like in the Croatian Society of Relations. First, what I'd like to comment on and conclude is next. It is difficult, almost impossible today in the Croatian Parliament to talk about the selection of members of the National Council for Science without speaking at the same time about the national scientific programme. What is today in the Republic of Croatia and how is it defined and where is the national scientific programme defined? The choice of people who are related to the National Science Council must be consistent with the strategy or whatever you want the vision of seeing a national scientific programme. However, today we are talking about people, and we do not have a defined national scientific programme which was in the Croatian Parliament for discussion, which has received support from the parent bodies, committees and indeed is quite normal and logical to expect that the national scientific programme and the election of members of the National Science Council are two things that are interdependent that must be supported that need to be coordinated. And it seems to me that this kind of debate is missing and that maybe we've decided on a methodology that seems a little unusual to me, first we're going to choose people at the National Science Council, and then we're going to talk about a national science program. I think that in the normal methodology it should be the other way around, in fact it should define a national scientific programme, get support, concentrate on that national scientific programme, and then, in accordance with the objectives defined, chosen by people who are able to support the translation of the national scientific programme. And that is why I will be free, Mr. President, to propose that tomorrow or the day after we vote and adopt members of the National Scientific Programme we ask that within 60 days appointed members of the National Scientific Programme be delivered to the Croatian Assembly for adoption of the National Scientific Programme. It certainly makes sense to ask yourself and see what the priorities are. Discussing everything that's of interest to science,... But in any case, we need to concentrate and focus our strength, energy, limited financial resources, limited human resources on what we hold a priority in our national scientific programme. What could be the priorities of the Croatian National Scientific Programme, I hope we will discuss very soon when the election of members of the National Scientific Council is completed. I'd be free to find out next. Amongst a whole series of different things that can be of interest to Croatia science is the goal of number 1 in which the role and responsibility of science should be particularly highlighted in terms of the growth of gross national income. It is impossible and unrealistic to expect that the growth of gross national income will be achieved with the support of science that is not well structured, which has no people who have feelings for it and who have no programs that can realize it. I'm talking about the digital economy, I'm talking about "E Croatia", and I'm sorry to say that among all these people we really don't have any representatives of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, I've been saying this as an electrical engineering engineer for over 30 years in this area, and I think it represents not only this Faculty, but at all information communication technologies, electronic industries, software, hardware, etc. something that should be really stronger represented in the Croatian National Science Programme. And in this respect, it is a great obligation and responsibility for people who will lead the National Science Council to recognise these priorities and to be able to support cooperation with the Croatian industry and the Croatian economy so that it really is restructured and modernised and whether it is able to achieve the new value we expect because such a Croatian economy can hardly realise it. Furthermore, also an extremely important scientific area, one of which is almost unspeakable in the Croatian National Scientific Programme, and it is almost difficult to talk about by people who have been elected and will be elected to the National Scientific Council. Defence research and development are very important in all countries in technological terms, in terms of the economy and are very important. I will mention that, in many countries, the allocations for research and development and defence spheres amount to up to 10% in the defence ministry's budgets, unfortunately, there is no extent in the Republic of Croatia to which it should be represented to support the restructuring of the Ministry of Defence, the modernisation of the armed forces and so on. Yesterday we talked about the National High Education Council. I would also like to stress that in almost all countries this system of military education is one of the most quality education issues. Many institutions such as "West Point" and so on are divergents of quality knowledge that are very important, important for every society and therefore also for the Republic of Croatia. What does the composition of our National Scientific Council look like? Biomedicine, history, abbreviations, psychology, biomedicine, musicology, biomedicine, chemical engineering and so on. That's all that matters. It is a representative, good set of different interests in the field of science, but what I particularly stress should be achieved by selecting people who will dominate and direct this Scientific Council or formulate a National Scientific Programme that will be presented to the Croatian Assembly and who will receive support in the Croatian Assembly. Furthermore, we have often talked about the Homeland War. I hope that within the framework of the National Science Programme and this topic, it will receive due and necessary attention through representatives who are related to the Ivo Pilar Institute, and I believe that this National Science Programme will not only refer to everything that is important, everything different and everything we deal with but that it will clearly be able to present priorities that can be converted into reality, I said again to limited financial resources, limited human resources. So let me conclude in the end. Support for people who will work at the National Scientific Council, which will be very soon appointed, with the expectation that they will deliver the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of a national scientific programme over the next 60 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28774	Thank you. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28775	Thank you. Let me, first of all, express one reserve on the last words of Honorable colleague Cosic, because he hopes that, if I understand correctly, this is exactly what the Council will deliver to the National Scientific Programme. I hope it doesn't work like that. First, because the Council's composition, the Council's authority under the law that exists and therefore what I'm saying is not now supporting this or that political option or this or that government. We should primarily adapt to what might really be done in some way or in some perspective, but it won't be that way. That's why I was hoping to use the issue of establishing the National Council in the new mandate after all the bad experiences we had with the former so that some things would change. For example, at least those concerning the full non-compliance of this National Science Council Act and the National High Education Council with real practice. So it even says, among other things, how this council appoints the regional scientific and artistic councils and a parent commitment for individual fields, which is not a practice at all. Artistic councils and others are by some other law and so on. I think it's fortunate that this council is primarily an advisory body although when it comes to a professional body then there might be a few questionnaires where I would like to extract from all questionnaires each of the individuals who will be proposed as a candidate here. It's not about individuals, it's just that this council should be balanced towards those who are real agents in the field of scientific development and I'm afraid they didn't come in here, but it's about choosing different combinations with more or less will or with more or less success to think about finding real protagonists. We have here, for example, among the candidates only when one is viewed as one of the very, very powerful and very influential names that is important in both the Union and is important in the very science that, for example, is not here. But that's why we have some that we don't even know the dates of birth or the year of birth, when they were born, so I'm even a little surprised that they could have been proposed in this way. The key thing is that there is also an agreement with everyone who is concerned and well-intentioned, although perhaps not with everything they said that, that is an extremely important issue, it is a matter of strategic importance to achieve such a national council that could really promote and improve what is important for Croatia to move forward, and what else when we use examples that countries have done this is devastating for Croatia. State of delicacy, state of qualification structure, position of science in society especially when we compete with countries that are often wanted as an example... Ireland, they're completely the opposite of what we'd like to see here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you need a deep work that should probably start from primarily affirming those positive elements that we have in existing scientific structures that we don't respect enough. On the contrary, contrary to the institutions that we have, contrary to the professional associations we have, some of which are better, some worse, it is easy to see what it is, we are actually forming one body, and the personal experience and experience of this same Parliament three mandates ago teaches us that here we had to defend the government and the minister from some ideas which, then, we are talking about three mandates earlier, by the National Science Council. I am afraid that this could be the case again, and that is why I warn my distinguished colleagues from the Ministry of Science that it is very difficult and very risky that the body that is drawn up under the law, but also that is not in line with actually many things that we should today, which has so much authority to discuss issues of importance from scientific activity and to propose and encourage the adoption of measures for promotion, they therefore value scientific projects, they establish scientific and artistic areas, they name fields, scientific and artistic councils and so on. I am very well-intentioned and without, so to speak, the direct consequences of what will be voted here or won't be voted I warn that this is the key to it. The key to the problem. The key to the problem is to find such a factor in the development of science that could carry this area, and the way the council is elected is not such that this could be achieved. I again underline, in certain universities, in certain institutes and in certain associations of professional, even in trade unions, we have people who could have an incomparably greater and more fruitful influence than if we form a body to which we give competences that are very easily distorted in the control jurisdiction, in the jurisdiction of protectionism, in jurisdiction I don't know these or such ones. I won't mention names. I'm going to mention one example, and I'm asking you, please, I'd like to stress strictly, the respect of everyone, including the example I'm going to mention, individuals, who will be eventually appointed to this council, but I mean, he speaks for himself. In this particular case, when a man was born and where, in fact, we don't know exactly, we don't write, no, and it doesn't write, it says that he speaks Croatian actively. Please, nice. It is said that he has drawn up a budget for the current fiscal year for the company he works in. ... Badget, I'm sorry, no. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Please, nice. And so on, and so on. And in the end it is even said to deliver the recommendations according to the request. I don't understand what that means. Please, this is no irony compared to the specific man that this is about. Maybe he was doing something that someone told him he needed to do. But I'm only warning through this example that is a metaphor for other examples and not wanting to question anyone as an individual that there's something wrong here. That we haven't found the real factors that need to win a few things. The inertness of a university and scientific organization that is clear. It's an autarchy that's made by autonomy, and it doesn't produce results. But also encourage the elements to think of something moving on. If people who are not at the level or are expected to be, in scientific reference, are in a situation to evaluate, evaluate and confirm the scientific titles that are higher than them, it is against the elemental so-called. The university's autonomy. I'm undermining that this is a discussion that has no intention of having a problem with one, so to speak, competing this way or that. I warn that the way of the National Council is now described in the law and in particular the realisation of the same national council as it is proposed is not the one leading to the enormous tasks that should be achieved for the development of Croatia, which is that we get a body that can really promote something, and taught by experience when, before three mandates, we had to support the government that we were very, very bitter about the ideas that occurred in the then national council, I warn that this could especially lead to problems and even problems of communication between the Ministry of Science and thus to what will be the result of its proposed composition and this role of the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28776	Thank you very much. Replica, Honorable Representative Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28777	Mr. President, I have heard the presentation of my colleague Vujic with the highest interest and I can only express my regret that his colleague Vujic is not on the board whose member made those remarks, so we could probably come up with some better and better-quality solutions, we could suggest to the promoters some things, as we have done. So I'm saying there was an opportunity for things to get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28778	Replication response. Dear Representative, Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28779	I respect this replica of Mr. Selem, and I hope that he will open up such a space that in this way, to say to our Committee, it is really possible to propose different solutions, which has not been the case until now, because that is how solutions are adopted by majority in order to say the principles, and when we have a number of objections and a certain number of suggestions, then some have not been accepted. I think we can discuss this on the Committee as well, but I think this problem is much bigger than the Committee, as is more than the Committee's, some other problems that have been adopted in this House and beyond the Committee's decision or past the decision of some committees. For example, I refer to the case of a proposal for media legislation, etc. I mean a lot more cooperative, so we'll cooperate better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28780	Thank you. State Secretary Free Taker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28781	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow a brief review of the discussion and with your permission, Mr. President, since this council, even under the law, has some common obligations and a joint session with that council that we discussed yesterday, if I may briefly refer to yesterday's debate, I say with your permission, because it's about thematical for.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28782	Moderate, moderate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28783	Moderately, yes. I think it is quite acceptable to propose Mr. Cosic's honourable representative on the council's obligation to do this job he proposed within a reasonable period of time, and I think that 60 days is the deadline or acceptable, or that it can be done in it. Our apology for the failure to provide information about the birth of Mr. Marjanovic. We found out later. Mr. Marjanović is a man who was born in 72nd in Split, and the information on the language is transmitted from his resume that he uses abroad where he works, is of course irrelevant to the fact that he is actively speaking Croatian among other things, and in this sense this information has been transmitted to us. Otherwise, I must remind you that the understandable reference to the provisions of the law is, returning us naturally to the questions of the law itself and the concept on which the law was made. This summer we reiterated one important fact that this law was passed along with it seems to me the full consent of all the representatives of this High House and that we are working on this concept further. That the National Council, not only advisory but also a professional body, are somewhere between the Parliament and the Ministry, the body that has and the institution that we have just introduced, is the Agency for Science and Higher Education, that in this sense we are at the beginning and all of us, because it is some new learning on the new concept. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, I'm going to look back at yesterday's review session on the proposal for two members who are outside the science system we consider criticism to be well-intentioned, but we can't accept them. Let me just, the candidate that we're talking about, Lasic is a really successful businessman and we don't think there's any reason to give up that candidacy, economist, biography and data that apply to him are being verified and we don't think they're questionable. As far as I am concerned, I would like to make more serious remarks about candidate Vidovic, who, who works at the student centre, is doing the truth temporarily as a performer at the end of an unpleasant process of resuscitation and an institution that has been extremely successful, he works in that institution but does not work in science or work in higher education, works on jobs that are the service of these jobs and we seem to remember that it is essentially something else. What we find extremely important is that this is a man who does a good job, who serves this science but the closeness of this basic function of ours and the closeness of these jobs I think is not small but the advantage of this candidate that we have proposed. In that sense, we stay with our proposals and... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28784	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28785	President, here I am sorry, but I really have to correct Mr. Secretary of State when he himself has made it very unusual for this candidate to point out that he speaks Croatian actively, so when his colleague Vujic said in that sense that he does not speak well Croatian particularly actively writing in his biography that he has made a Badget for the current fiscal year immediately afterwards, then he negotiated, please nicely a few good contracts. So it's not about any linguistics of my nagging, it's about the elementary knowledge of Croatian for which this candidate could not argue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28786	This will ultimately be a proposal from the proposer. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for appointing, a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Science Council. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. To vote. Score. I find that, with 77 votes in favour, and four abstentions, a decision has been taken to appoint the president and members of the National Science Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28789	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council! This Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act complements a basic law which has not been amended since 1998. The main motive for these amendments is to align it with European legislation, the acquis of the European Union, which is also set out in the National Programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union in the 2004 plan. The international obligations of the Republic of Croatia to international air transport associations are also introduced and taken over and implemented. Also, positive practice is being implemented and some previously discussed issues and agreed views are included. I will say briefly closer on the three European directives on which these amendments and amendments to the law have been implemented, and I will also explain in a few sentences the two most significant amendments to these amendments and amendments to the law. The basic objective of first Directive 94/56. The EEZ is the establishment of basic principles, the conduct of accident research and civil aviation accidents. And the next second Directive 2003/42/EC speaks of reporting on the threat of civil aviation security. Based on these two directives, improving the safety of civil air traffic will take place by preventing the threat of safety, accidents and serious aircraft accidents. The establishment of efficient systems, research and mandatory reporting systems for such events will ensure that potential hazards are detected. The third Directive speaks of mutual acceptance of permits, personnel performing functions in civil aviation. According to this Directive, Member States must accept without undue delay or additional verification of any authorisation issued by another Member State, together with the privileges and certificates relating to that authorisation. In order for this to be feasible, the conditions for authorisation must be equally valuable and based on the same conditions for the staff of the pilot cabin throughout the European Union. The enforcement of these provisions stems from the provisions arising from the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to the common aviation authorities and their common requirements as fundamental documents that we must comply with. In addition to these three Directives, this law aligns or proposes to regulate and entrust certain tasks to the State Administration, the Croatian Aviation Union, which, as a legal person, is in accordance with Article 116(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia may, by law, entrust certain matters from the jurisdiction of the State administration. The Croatian Air Force is a roof association of civil aviation associations in the Republic of Croatia dealing with some of the aviation sports or activities such as air modeling, parachutery, paragliding, oscillating sailing, micro aviation and ballooning, micro aviation and ballooning. The Croatian Air Force is a full member of the International Air Federation and is authorised to represent Croatia at world gatherings dealing with aviation sports issues. Furthermore, the issue of aviation sports activities is similar to what is proposed here to be entrusted to national Aero clubs in other countries both in Europe and elsewhere in the world. In particular, some questions will be shared with the Croatian Air Force in the field of professional training of sports aircraft pilots, carrying out examinations, programme organisations and conducting tests themselves, as well as the verification of professional periodic training. These amendments also implement the principle of giving powers to carry out medical examinations in the home ministry, so the Ministry of Transport, which is the difference between practice and practice. In fact, this authority was in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Transport will therefore give the authority to carry out medical examinations to a particular institution with the consent of the Ministry of Health and it is also a newspaper that other than legal persons can be entrusted with such tasks to natural persons. Finally, this law accepts the implementation of modern international norms, ensuring continued harmonisation and implementation of existing rules with the acquiss of the European Union and solutions, norms and recommendations provided for in the international contracts which the Republic of Croatia has joined. As I said, this law is part of the national programme and that is the basic reason for the emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28790	Thank you very much. Reporters of the Committee on Law, European Integration, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Connections? Rapporteur, respected representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28791	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison of the Croatian Parliament held at the 16th session held on 30 November 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Transport with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z. 207 The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament since 25 November. The Committee considered the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act with the Final Proposal for a Law as a home working body in accordance with the provisions of Article 89. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee accepted the proposal from the proposer to adopt the law following an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The introduction of the presentation was given by a representative of the applicant, who specifically pointed out that the amendments and additions to the Air Transport Act contained provisions which are in force in line with international commitments and practices that need to be implemented urgently. He also stressed that in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal course of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, the Air Transport Act is in line with a directive laying down the fundamental principles of the implementation and investigation of accidents and accidents in civil aviation. The Civil Aviation Safety Assessment Directive and the Directive on mutual acceptance of civil aviation personnel' permits to perform their functions. Following the discussion, the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Communications unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Transport Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28792	I'm opening a debate. A club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community. Dear Representative Zivko Nenadić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28793	Here, Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club. Air traffic law is a fundamental law governing fundamental air traffic issues in the airspace of the Republic of Croatia and the responsibilities in that area, air traffic security conditions, air transport and other air transport activities, air traffic security conditions and air traffic facilities, airports, aviation risk investigation and aircraft accidents and any other issue related to air traffic. How in air traffic, you can normally only make mistakes once as well as in mushrooms, then it is necessary to bring the existing rules in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. Air traffic is becoming more suffocating, therefore, for security reasons, harmonisation of regulations and standards necessary permanent, permanent obligation and necessity. These amendments to the law lay down the fundamental principles of carrying out a survey of accidents and accidents in civil aviation, reporting on the threat of civil aviation security and mutual acceptance of staff permits to perform functions in civil aviation. For example, part of the state administration's business is entrusted to the Croatian Air Force, as it is most professionally trained. It is possible for the employer to verify, before and during the conduct of the operations in case of reasonable doubt, the psychophysical state of the aircraft staff, for example, possibly for alcohol, drugs. The fines are in line with the provisions of the Law on Infringements, etc., to shorten and not list. Finally, in this bill there is neither politics nor politicisation, it is about potential human disasters and major material damage for this reason as well as the HDZ Club I believe that other parties' clubs will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28794	Thank you. Let's go. Honorable representative Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28795	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Well, already in the early days of aviation, even before World War I, people with vision realized that the invention of aircraft opened a new dimension of traffic that can no longer be limited to national borders. Or they realized that if the air force were to exist, it would have to be international. Following this vision of the accelerated development of aviation during II. World War II, 52 countries set up an International Civil Aviation Organization on the basis of the adopted Convention on International Civil Aviation in Chicago in 44 years to develop the principle of technology, as well as the promotion and development of international air transport. In 1992, the Republic of Croatia signed the Chicago Convention and subsequently became a member of the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and has concluded 50 bilateral agreements with other countries as a signatories. Furthermore, the Republic of Croatia and the Member States and the European Civil Aviation Conference and the European Aviation Safety Organisation, and it should also be said that the air traffic management of the Ministry of the Sea, Tourism and Transport is also a full member of the European Organisation of Joint Aviation Authorities. The amendments and additions of the Air Transport Act are encouraged by the obligation to comply with existing rules with the standards, norms and recommendations provided for in international contracts which are members of the Republic of Croatia. These are, of course, the harmonisation of the applicable provisions of the law with the acquiss of the European Union. It is a full membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union as a core of democratic freedom and economic development one of the fundamental objectives of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the law go in terms of the greater uniformity of the applicable 1998 air traffic law with international standards and recommended practice. The organisation of joint aviation authorities shall issue its own regulations, such as "yars" through which it lays down aviation standards which, on the basis of their obligations as members of that organisation, have implemented in their legal system, e.g. ...with this, these regulations the Ministry adopted its sublegal acts which, in accordance with the Air Transport Act, do not recognise in such a form. So what was introduced in terms of sub-legislative acts came into conflict with the existing law. Therefore, the importance of this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the applicable Air Transport Act is reflected. However, it should also be said that, in addition to the harmonisation of certain provisions with the standards and recommendations of international organisations of which the Republic of Croatia is a member, certain issues have been left with the freedom to resolve the same at national level in accordance with its legal system. Thus, this proposal aligns the applicable Air Transport Act and, as we have already heard from the three directives. Or we can say that the content of these directives already exists in a certain sense in the applicable law, only this proposal insists on greater transparency and explicitity of certain provisions. For example, the proposal undoubtedly pointed out that the Department of Research is independent of the Air Traffic Administration, whose interest could be confronted with the tasks of the Research Department if, for example, it turns out that the sequence of activities of the administration occurred in the event of an accident. This proposal also points out that the competent authority is the Research Department and not the Ministry as it is in the applicable law. And the third directive even more transparently demonstrates the obligation to mutually accept staff's permission to perform functions in civil aviation. For example, we have an existing law in Article 91, e.g. in paragraph 1, which is already in the law, the authorisations and authorisations obtained in the country which is a party to the international contract shall be recognised. And then the third, or fourth, sentence is added, in particular, emphasising the recognition and authorisation of flight staff acquired in the Member State of the European Union, which is essentially just one more prominent way. It should also draw attention to the fact that, with this proposal, they transfer some powers and state administrations to Croatian air carriers to the Croatian Air Alliance as we have already heard. It shall then, subject to an amendment to Article 93 in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the existing law, which shall return the authority to the Ministry of Air Transport and to carry out a medical examination or to determine the health capacity of the air crew to the competent authority of the air traffic ministry. But, of course, in the agreement of the Minister of Health. Furthermore, by adopting this proposal in force, we are also introducing assumptions for the fulfillment of the annexes of the international civil aviation organisation, which introduces mandatory certification of the airport for public use. The international organisation has introduced a certification obligation this year, and we are making assumptions about its implementation this way. The international organisation has adopted this regulation on the basis of an effort to ensure subsidized standards regarding the safety of air traffic in all airports. Finally, it is important to say that the adoption of the law in amendments to the air traffic law provides for continued harmonisation and enforcement of existing rules, with the acquis of the European Union. Both the norms and recommendations provided for in international agreements, which the Republic of Croatia has joined. Which she approached. Whose member is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28796	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Nenad Szazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28797	President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on airspace in the Republic of Croatia. In the process of bringing the Republic of Croatia closer to the European Union in the process of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the right of acquisition of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, as set out in the national programme of the Republic of Croatia for the accession of the European Union. Adopted at a meeting of the government of the Republic of Croatia on 15 January 2004. Thus, the Air Transport Act is aligned with the following Directives. And the secretary of state mentioned the most important things of these three directives that are important to the explicit at least have been mentioned in the old law. But now they're a little bit more isolated and a little more elaborate. The first directive lays down the basic principles of investigating accidents and accidents in civil aviation. This Directive also extends to serious accidents in the area of law enforcement. The applicable law recognises the occurrences of accidents and accidents while the proposed change of such events dissipates the concepts of accidents, serious accidents and accidents. In order to identify the facts mentioned instead of being so far a committee that has been researched, these amendments and additions are proposed by the Research Department. The Department of Research must be organisationally functionally and financially independent from the implementing body in the maintenance of air transport and air services. Why do I think this is a good and good proposal, because if this research department is dependent on anyone or any of those services we mention, I hold that it cannot be promising and that it cannot in any way do its job professionally and qualitatively that it is doing well to move it aside and to be a separate DRuga Directive in the report and endangering civil aviation security, there is an applicant in Article 29 who wants to maximise surveillance on the threat of civil aviation security. Which is an example and an iblo, it insists on being examined and analysed in detail means every case and every detail. We've had false tips this summer, we remember what scandal broke out with that false tip on the plane giving something planted, and that's exactly what this law wants to say. The third directive is on the mutual acceptance of staff permits to perform functions in civil aviation. It's mostly about the licenses and the transfer of licenses from our country and others, and it mostly means respect for that part. Furthermore, when we look at the amendments to the laws that are proposed, they are mostly more than good. And I don't think any of these remarks are particularly should be pointed out. I believe that everything is in line with the implementation of the modern international norm and is in line with the law that adapts to the European Union. And that I don't normally owe myself to uphold this law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28798	Thank you. State Secretary Drazen Vregec, final review please. You don't want to. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 207 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. To vote. The result? I find that, with 74 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Air Transport Act in the text has been adopted as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28801	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when we passed amendments and amendments to the municipal economy law in June of this year, there was a slip. We accepted the amendment of the Committee on Legislatives, but we accepted it too poorly, so we deleted a little too much from the law, which is actually the calculation by which the community contribution is addressed. And that's why we asked the government for the regulation. As you know, the presysa regulation is valid on 31.12 this year, but in order to avoid problems in local self-government units, here we have now translated it into amendments and amendments to the municipal economy law. And I'm asking you nicely to accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28802	Thank you very much. Whether or not the rapporteurs want the Committee on Legislative Affairs, Space and Environmental Protection. Honorable rapporteur, Representative Marko Širac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28803	Mr. President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the 20th session of 30 November, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Protection of the Parliament’s Environment discussed the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the municipal economy with the final proposal for a law. The proposed law has been examined by the Committee on the basis of its competence under Article 83 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, in the capacity of the home working body. The opening statement by the applicant's representatives explained that due to the lack of a provision, the method of calculating the municipal contribution was provisionally resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia's regulation. Since the current Regulation is a time-limited legal provision, the question of the calculation of the municipal contribution is regulated. The Committee has unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass a law amending and supplementing the laws on the municipal economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28804	Thank you very much. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I'm opening a debate. SDP representative club, respected representative Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28805	Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, as you said, here's what this is about, in fact, the technical modification of the law, in which you say the slip was stolen, is actually about the need for an existing regulation that is in force by the end of 31 December of this year, so it should be translated into an amendment and addition of the law, I think that's quite all right. The SDP club supports this, although it will be absent from the vote for a number of reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28806	He won't be present or absent? ... Thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Honorable representative Valter Poropat, IDS Representatives' Club. He's gone. He loses his club right to the word. Dear Representative Krunoslav Markovnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28807	Mr. President, Madam Minister. Here's a little bit. I think even though the slip was made somehow, the damage wasn't done, because we all used the regulation so that here I welcome this inclusion in the law and the application will normally be as good as ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28808	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's gone. He's losing his word. Minister? Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Communist Economy, Proposal for a Law No. 219 The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. To vote. The result? I find that 77 votes unanimously passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Communist Economy in the text as proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28811	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the correction of the law itself. Today, following a debate at the representatives' clubs, the Proposer corrects his proposal on how the law is passed and proposes that the law be conducted in a regular procedure, so that today it should be considered in the first reading. The reasons for this are our assessment that there are a lot of remote views within the Parliament committees themselves, I would say between, therefore, the different attitudes between the profession and the club representatives and that it takes a certain time, the shorter this better time, but still the time until the second reading in which we would in this regard... So explain the apartments and find the best possible solution. [[You don't understand.]] In that sense, if you'll excuse me, would I continue the opening statement?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28812	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28813	Thank you very much. So here you are, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on representation in the area of industrial property rights. I remind you intellectually, industrial property is one of two formal key components of intellectual property. The industrial property includes five types of ownership: patents, stamps, innovation design, geographical indications and product and service origin codes and semi-annual topography. In our country there are procedures for the recognition of these rights under each of these five rights there are special laws that are in line with the legal property of the European Union, the concept of which you will meet, which we meet in public called the acquis communautaire, is a concept which is in force and regulated by the law as of 1 January of the current year. In each of these laws is one article that regulates the issue of representation under these rights. This current bill would drop the provisions of each of these laws, which is contained in the transitional and final provisions, and thus the problem would be uniquely solved. So the bill you have on your desk is articulated in four chapters, in four thematic units. The law has 24 articles, only short indications for each of them. The general principles state who can be a patent agent and who can represent stamps. I have a need to briefly explain this so far perhaps an unusual term. The trade mark representative shall be a term identifying a person physically or legally representing everything other than patents. In that sense, I ask that this term be understood. The second thematic part of the one that may have actually been the most controversial in this previous debate is the question and the acquisition and loss of the right to carry out the activity of the authorised representative. Third one relating to chamber and fourth issues, transitional and final provisions. In addition to the above mentioned, a two-year period has been set in which the previously registered representatives must meet the conditions laid down by this law. In addition, it is proposed that the law be applied with a certain beginning. The original proposal was held on 1 June of the following year, it would be moved to a certain extent to the extent that it would be, i.e. by a deadline within which the law would be adopted. And the last note. Currently in Croatia there are 62 registered registered representatives with this right. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28814	Thank you very much. Reporters of the Committee on Law, European Integration? Legislative, chairman of the Committee, respected representative Florian Boras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28815	Mr. President, the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament held at the 28th session today, discussed the proposal for a law on entry into the field of intellectual property rights, with the final proposal of the law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 25 November this year. The Legislative Committee supports the adoption of this law, but the Committee proposes that the proposer review the justification and basis of the reasons for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. We have heard from the promoters that he has withdrawn the urgency, and therefore I am glad that the Committee's objection to legislation has been adopted in this regard. However, in addition to the Legislative Committee, it has made several important remarks it holds that the applicant should respect them during the second reading. The basic remark concerns Article 4 of the proposed law. Namely, this proposal as a patent agent can be any natural person, citizen of the Republic of Croatia with residence in the Republic of Croatia with completed technical or natural college. At the same time as a patent agent, a lawyer shall be limited to having to have an employee or to cooperate with a person who has these qualities referred to in point 1. It shall also be similar to paragraph 2 in the case of a trade mark representative. In this regard, we can see that the restriction is even greater, because representation before the Bureau is limited in a way that must have an employee of at least one person who meets the conditions laid down in point 1. We've seen a patent rep, that these conditions are somewhat milder, so a lawyer can have some contractual relationship with a person like that. And here, in the case of stamps that are more simple for us, these conditions are being significantly sharpened. It is in principle the Committee’s view that lawyers cannot in any way be limited to representation by state authorities in the procedures conducted by those bodies. So is the code in the procedures for protecting patent rights, at the IPR or whatever it's called. Furthermore, it is unacceptable, in the opinion of this Committee and the education that we have received orally in the debate, that this is a European Union directive because it is contradictory and just an explanation of the applicant who says that the European Union does not have a single legal system on this issue. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the adoption of this Act is both questionable and necessary, since we believe that these issues can be resolved by specific laws, as well as by the Mark Act, patent law, etc. Here, Mr. President, that would be the shortest oral form, the committee has yet to write a report in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28816	Thank you very much. For European integration? For education, science and culture? I'm opening a debate. The club of HDZ representatives, the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28817	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community supports the proposal of the Law on Representativeship in the area of industrial property rights, but suggests that regular parliamentary procedure be discussed without an emergency procedure, i.e. that today's debate be discussed in terms of first reading of the Law. This Law therefore regulates the issue of representation in the area of industrial property rights. The right of industrial ownership in a material sense has been elaborated and regulated by already harmonised laws in this area with the legal gains of the European Union. These regulations have entered into force, and in their entirety they include the Law on patents, the Law on trade marks, the Act on Industrial Design, the Code on Geographical Origin and the designations of origin of products and services, the Law on the Protection of Topography of the Half-Hungarians. The very proposal of the Law therefore seeks to create the necessary foundations which are currently possible with the intention of bringing the Republic of Croatia as close as possible to the standards that apply in the European Union and in this area. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the Law itself should be resolved, i.e. to answer the following questions in the field of representation in the area of industrial property rights. So first, what are the general principles for representation. Secondly, who can be an authorised representative in the area of industrial property rights? What conditions must an authorised registered representative fulfil in the area of industrial property rights? In what way can an authorised registered representative in this area act? And where and in what way does an examination be passed for an authorised representative in the area of industrial property rights? Furthermore, a significant paper in terms of development in relation to the current situation, namely, introduces a difference on the necessary conditions between a patent agent and a stamp agent. However, part of the proposed Law which discusses the conditions for the conduct of the business before the Institute of Intellectual Property, we think of Article 4, if it is necessary to answer the question, who may be a patent representative, or who may be a representative of the stamps, should be developed in a different way than those of authorised representatives. Therefore, in our opinion, the provisions of Article 4(1) and (2) relating to additional conditions are not acceptable, and this is not primarily considered to be an adequate expert examination. Namely, a person who, according to his or her profession, deals with representation of natural and legal persons in front of courts and other institutions here primarily thinks of lawyers, i.e. attorneyship as a specific profession, and also of legal profession, so lawyers who represent and protect legal, legal and legal persons by nature of their profession. In accordance with the discussions and the relevant working bodies, it has been pointed out that this problem can, therefore, be legally worked out that in no way does it harm the legal standards of the countries of the European Union, i.e. it does not compromise the adaptation of this part of our legislation, with legislation and legal gains of the European Union. Finally, the position of the HDZ Representatives Club is that the observed shortcomings can be addressed in good time, thus fully obtaining the preconditions not only for the adoption of the law in question, but also for the overall harmonisation of this matter with European industrial property law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28818	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic on behalf of the SDP Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28819	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The need for the adoption of such a law as a special norm or a threat to some of the existing laws is without question. As I said on the Legislative Committee today, this Law is as if you would get a law allowing for operations to be performed by all but surgeons. Likewise with this Law, which allows for the representation of non-legislators, and this authority does not give at least a decent degree to those who do so, even in some way a constitutional position. This is why the SDP Club conditionally supports the adoption of such a law, of course, assuming that between the two readings this deficiency will be eliminated and that, primarily in Article 4, the possibility of representation will be at least equal to that of lawyers as it is in the case of engineers. In addition, there are some other minor or slightly minor shortcomings in the Law, such as the termology when the law comes from the Ministry from which the term undergraduate, university study, graduate university study comes, for example. Furthermore, there are some legal terms, such as when it comes to special powers in Article 6(5), then there is no reference to approval, so there is another term. Similarly, solutions are not always made by the institution by an official, so the Director of the State Office, if he brings or the Minister, should be cleared in Article 8(3). Also, in Article 9 of the registration period, it is pointlessly short because each year renewing power through registration probably forces our representatives to devote half their working time to their own registration and half those other jobs. There are some other interesting provisions that should be complemented. In the first row, it is a provision of compulsory association in the chamber, which is probably not unconstitutional if we set up an analogy with the Bar of Law, but it is interesting not to actually predict any jurisdiction of that chamber. In fact, the only thing that's been said is that the Ministry is monitoring and studying the work of the chamber. I still have to admit that I haven't heard that there is a ministry that studies the work, the work of some other bodies. In one word, I don't have any longer, time is at an end, and the law is relatively short. The intentions of the law are good, acceptable. I repeat that in order to support this law, it takes a series of repairs that I hope will be made between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28820	Thank you very much. Club HNS, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28821	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I am pleased that the proposer adopted the advice of the Legislative Committee almost unanimously to make this the first reading of the law in question. It is commendable to the intensities that the provisions of a larger number of legal regulations where this matter is partially or temporarily regulated are found in one place and that it is made up of a law that would be clear to those who are not exactly referred to the Croatian legal system of speciality because people who would deal with this work would primarily represent foreign natural and legal persons. Article 2 is replaced by the following: The law says that natural and legal persons who do not have a residence or headquarters in Croatia must have a representative, but nowhere does it say that Croatian legal and natural persons cannot have that representative. Since it is an extremely complex business, patent application is both a technical and legal complex job, it is expected that these institutions, or those people who do such work, will have a lot of work in the near future when science comes to the promise. The newspaper in the current situation is who can do the job. The law is well-conceived, this bill is a little technical. The patent application is a technical job. It must, in part, be composed of a specialist in a particular specific profession. If the bill stipulates that it is a person who has graduated undergraduately, which is now likely to be pre-graduate or graduate, I don't know, a university study in technical or natural sciences, it's so broadly general that it's completely inconclusive. So the law gives the possibility, the law allows a textile technology engineer to make a patent application for something that's the subject of biotechnology, which he simply doesn't know. The only common denominator for all patent applications and other business relating to industrial ownership is the right. I don't represent the Czech interests here because I'm not a law-abiding lawyer, but the fact is that the legal work here is always there, and besides him, the work of some particular profession. Limiting this to a general technical or natural science profession, and excluding a lawyer simply makes no sense and it would neither work nor can work. It also seems to me, I find it illogical to commit lawyers who can do this to have to hire a man from a particular profession. What profession? If today's patent in the field of electrical engineering is going to have to hire an electric engineer. Tomorrow they'll have to hire a engineering engineer and something like that. It obviously doesn't work either. The point is that such a lawyer should have contractual relations with a man of a particular profession. In addition, another aspect of the law is the HNS Club, the PGS. Namely, a chamber is established as a mandatory body in which all persons involved in this business must participate. If this is an adequate to a lawyer’s or any other chamber, it must have jurisdiction and, somewhere in Article 12 or around it, the removal from the register would have to include a provision under which the chamber concludes that it can conclude that a particular agent has not done the job both by moral and professional ropes properly and the chamber excludes it from its membership. Deleting from the chamber membership should, as it is very easy to even possibly happen from time to time. All in all, the HNS Club, the PGS, supports the principles and needs of passing these laws. I hope that in the second reading of the remark, we will be able to adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28822	Thank you. The HSS Club, respected representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28823	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the government. And the HSS Club can only be given that it is finally the draft law to support this law only conditionally. I hope that at least the Legislative Committee will intervene with amendments to correct this text. Indeed, there are several remarks that are difficult, difficult to skip. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I agree with Mr Jospipovic, but this is also not a good formulation – a lawyer or a lawyer society. We have the Law on Attorneyship and Legal Assistance and I think we should use the terminology of that law. A lawyer or a law firm shall have full equal rights in the field of representation and shall not need to specifically distinguish a lawyer from a law firm. Also, as far as lawyer rights are concerned, there are a number of things that may have been dealt with differently. Why should a lawyer have an employee at least one person? Let's say you couldn't have a contract with that person on, a contract on action, and it was legally covered by the same situation, and I think it's unnecessary to burden the text. The same applies, of course, to the trade mark representative. In addition, in Article 6, I think we should use the same legal terminology. There is a term of general and special authority. It refers to paragraphs 1 and other items where it is necessary to clarify the text because it indicates whether it is general or special power. We know what that means. You should also be seen when entering the chamber, is there an obligation to join the chamber? No, I don't. Why? What are the powers of the chamber and ultimately whenever we talk about the state administration I agree with the assessment that always decisions are made by the Head of State Administration. Never the state administration. And finally, Article 21. The Minister in charge of the work of the Bureau will pass the rule. It shall apply to the submission of an expert examination within 6 months of its entry into force. I'm not sure that's an appropriate deadline, or on those deadlines of one year for passing an expert exam. I think that the minister can pass sublegal acts within a much shorter period of time so that we do not lose that 6 months from the date of the law's entry into force for those of course candidates who have to take the expert exam. Finally, Article 23, again, we have that famous formulation: This law enters into force on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal and is applicable from 1 June 2005. It seems to me that we once agreed that the formulation of this article should be read. You should respect it anyway. In cases where I said the HSS Club is ready to support the final proposal of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28824	Thank you. Dear Representative Drazen Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28825	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This is an unequivocal law that fills the legal gap in our legal system because there is no specific one whole law that would regulate this issue with us today. I think that the law is globally well-conceived and that it introduces a certain order into this matter, but at the same time I agree with my colleagues that there are certain doubts and more specific problems that I think are really very easy to solve. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. For they have indeed chosen to obey the provisions of the fundamental law of the attorneyship. Because a lawyer is a person who provides legal assistance and who is actually a natural and legal person in all proceedings. This procedure in the area of industrial property rights is administrative procedures. And so, in fact, to limit the defendant to certain specific provisions that he represents in the administrative procedure he's already qualified for, I think it's a little questionable. A team before we heard in fact that there is no single legal system in the European Union. I also respect what the promoter has said that they have carried out a comparative review in other countries' legislation as it is regulated. And that this in some way complicated the experience of others that we find acceptable. And that you have, in fact, consulted the participants and already existing representatives in the area of industrial property rights. But I think they're making remarks that are being made here today that I'm also joining, and I think they're easily removed and easily solved. So I'm going to support this law and I think that this is actually one good foundation to create a legal order in this segment. And that is how we really fill in the legal gap in the legal system that clearly exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28826	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Mlinaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28827	Mr. President, Madam Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law on representation in the area of industrial property rights. There is no special regulation in the Republic of Croatia. This law creates the basis for the Republic of Croatia to draw closer to Europe in fundamental principles. Or the European Union. It is important to ensure the conditions for the exercise of private legal rights. People who have industrial property or represent rightholders are glad that the obligation to pass an expert exam is not released. And that an authorised representative may only be a person with completed undergraduate university studies from technical or natural sciences. A lawyer or a law firm who hires at least one such person. Since so far the legal acts of the Council of Europe are inapplicable in Croatia and partial harmonisation is a shift in advance and I will therefore welcome the adoption of this law. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28828	Thank you. Please. Dear Representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28829	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Committee on Legislatives, I have made the main remarks of the Committee, and I am clearly and personally in favour of and respect of the Committee. And I also agree with the discussions of all my predecessors. What I want to underline one more time is this. In my opinion, therefore, the fundamental question in this law is who can be the MPs. For the purposes of Article 4(1) and (2) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4(4) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013. In my opinion, MPs, both can be lawyers, without any restrictions. And all others may have to have some additional knowledge, as well as the persons referred to in point 1. which are technical or natural sciences. Furthermore, I believe that this provision of technical or natural science is inexplicable or unclear and actually opens up one volunteerism and legal uncertainty. Because the provision as well as it's corrupted, it could be true in practice that agronomist represents a law firm in a mobile terpetum patent. I think it's a situation that's undesirable and none of us want, but the provision is so formalized that it's possible. Even greater my objection is an item 2 where lawyers are particularly limited to representation for stamps. And persiste me personally and many of my colleagues have and worked on these jobs to protect the stamp is to fill out a few forms, according to the instructions we get from the referencing in that body and nothing more. The question is if the same brand exists protected from someone before. Therefore, for Croatian citizens too, there are much lighter conditions and for lawyers much stricter. So it seems to me that either the motionor missed it, or he wanted to, but in any case, I refer my serious objection to such legal solutions. Here, I'd like to ask the Proposer to take them into consideration. And I especially appreciate that he has accepted complaints about the need and that we are discussing this law today in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28830	Thank you. Final review. There's no need. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 210 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - Proposal for a Law on representation in the area of industrial property rights is accepted; - All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please come in. To vote. The result? I find that with 80 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached unanimously.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28833	Thank you very much. Mr. President, therefore, you have a final proposal for a tax on income. First, I'll say what the changes are based on the first reading of income tax laws. So we suggest that Article 18 paragraph 1 be deleted. And point 2 of which is prescribed that I consider myself to be a craftsman’s activity to be an issue in the lease of a total turnover obscenity obscenity in the law of trade. It is also prescribed in Article 55 that mountainous mountainous areas have the same status in terms of the prevention of activity in these areas as well as areas of a third group of areas of special public concern. The provisions of Articles 20 and 22 of the law on the rights of independent artists and the promotion of cultural and artistic works have been deleted in Article 69(1). Which means that independent artists will continue to be able to use expenditures of 25%. For the works of art achieved, and 20 thousand kuna per year untaxed receipts based on donations. The article also carried out improvements in the text with a view to a clear statement and certain provisions of the law on no-technical harmonisation. But fundamental changes to the income tax law are. So we suggest that the non-taxable share of income increase from 1500 to 1600 kn. This untaxable portion of the increase from 1500 to 1600 kn. This will result in lower revenues in the State budget in 2005 amounting to 50 million kuna. That is the immediate answer to those who suggest a larger non-taxable part. For example, an increase in the non-taxable part to 2.000 kuna would mean less revenue in the State budget next year from 2 billion and 800 million kuna. We also suggest that the dividend tax be abolished for the simple reason that we believe that in such a way Croatia will encourage investment in Croatia and that, with the deductions proposed for initial investment in profit tax, Croatia will become very interesting to foreign investors, so that the effective profit rate will be well below 20%, at least at this point in the environment, in our environment. We have returned to the Income Tax Act a proposal not to tax pensions, family pensions, the families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders. You know that during 4 years, the Croatian Democratic Community Club tried to return it to the law, however, we failed and this bill was done and corrected. Other receipts or other income have also been defined, where income is finally put into taxation, which has not been covered in these past 11 years as far as the Income Tax Act is concerned, regardless of all its changes and changes over the past 11 years. Thus, this extends the basis of those who need to pay the profit margin. I've already said that by amending the law we've defined especially for artists, but under other income. So, singers, athletes, are defined to be recognised as a flat-rate share of the costs of 30%, and the rest is paid a 25% income tax. I note that this is a income that has not been covered by taxation in recent years, and all athletes in signing the contract have been in a rather invisible situation. In this way, we believe that, with the Sport Act to be passed and up to 2% of the total revenues of investment in sport, we will finally begin to lead order into this sport activity. So here, Mr. President, these are the basic amendments to the income tax tax, and it is also indicated that in the second reading it changed from the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28834	Thank you very much. The Legislative Committee. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. SDP advocates' club, respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28835	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to say a few sentences in the opening of the long-declared tax reform, so we expected these two laws from the tax system package to be the announced late reform. In fact, tax reform has already been announced in the HDZ election campaign, in the so-called Mr. Sanader's guarantee card guaranteeing tax cuts. The last days of the election campaign have been quite unexpected and a promise has come, this time quite concrete about reducing VAT from 22% to 20%. Presenting his government, the prime minister, Mr Sanader, also represents the government's programme by 2007. This is a little talk about the economic problems and the way they are solved, and in a few lines dedicated to tax policy, it is said that a full reform of the tax system whose function is to revive production is needed. We have already seen a small discrepancy in the election times and times of government. But we attributed it to political folklore. This spring we pass the Law amending the VAT law, which also announces tax reform. Some of us have expressed the surprise that tax reform that needs to revive production, which is neutral for production, according to its function. We have indicated the inability to compensate for VAT deficits of around 3 billion kuna in any of the tense revenues of the budget. However, the law is passed with a deadline of 1.1.2005 and a period of 1 month. Meanwhile, we were visited by an all-powerful IMF to reduce VAT, while increased excise duties on vehicles, tobacco and its processing. At the beginning of the tax reform we should have waited, and soon here these days will be the year of the government's term. The two laws in the tax package that we will discuss today and teaching on the re-launching of the Financial Police should mark the start of the tax reform. And the Income Tax Act, but also the Profit Act, were essentially only slightly improved and more revised existing laws, so the government decided on a proposal for a new law, not its amendments and additions, to correct the bad image of its work. In this year, most of the time, we get amendments and additions to the laws that have two to three articles from the government. The proposed Income Tax Act corrects and clarifies certain definitions, but essentially retains the system by eliminating or limiting some reliefs. Already here, the minister initially said that the personal deduction is increasing by 100 kuna. So far, the increase practice has been at 250 kuna level, each time the taxpayer's personal deduction has changed. But there's a slight increase in the rate range of 25% from 4.5 to 5 personal deductions. Compared to the increase in personal tax deduction, there is a slightly higher non-taxable deduction for dependent family members, which we think is good. All other increases in tax deductions, for example in areas of special state concern, remain the same and their increases are conditioned by an increase in the personal deduction of 100 kuna. So far, the possibility that a tax relief of up to 12,000 kuna per year can be used individually for health services, buying or building an apartment or a house, sub-inhabitation costs, interest on housing loans, and a total of 48,000 kuna is now reduced to a total of 12,000 kuna. It was interesting to note that these reliefs were used by the richer layers of society, those who make between 5 and 6 thousand kunas, that this was not used to a greater extent, however, for us such reasonings are unacceptable, because we cannot accept that the revenues of 5 or 6 thousand kunas are rich, or that they are used by the rich. They are certainly not people who buy the first apartment, who are sick, are treated, or who are tenants. And lastly, taxing dividends is abolished. So far, the dividend paid is the one whose income paid a 15% tax, which, with the income tax paid before, is paid before the payment of the 20% dividend, 35%, therefore not even the maximum rate paid on income tax in Croatia and is 45%. In order to boost investment in Croatia, dividends are paid in almost all European countries, and those who will tax-free in Croatia will pay dividend taxes in their country if they pay dividends. More could be accepted that the incentive to invest is then if the use or non-payment of dividends and its investment in development is exempt from certain taxes, for example the Tax on Profit. Which would mean who's comfortable with a change like this. The worker, if he earns more than 1,600 kuna, will pay at least 15% of the tax on that difference to that difference. But the owner of the shares that will receive the dividend, for example from a million kuna, would not pay any income tax from the point of view of the use of dividends. The Income Tax Act also includes trade unions, crafts and Chamber of Commerce. I'll put some examples here very briefly, we've decided that the club itself will not be a proposing amendment. Some amendments will propose our members personally, the club personally, because when the government's social partners failed to achieve the agreement of the fate of the amendments we would have submitted is indeed quite certain. I will single out two amendments here, which are proposed by trade unions, or objections. They propose to include in that part of Article 9 where income is not considered to include direct payments from employers for supplementary and private health insurance and voluntary pension insurance of workers, etc. the third pillar and expenditure of employers for medically programmed active holidays in accordance with specific regulations and with the aim of improving the working ability of workers. In this way, they view it as stimulating employers to pay additional and private health insurance and not to do so today because of the increased tax burdens charged by such payments. In addition, as regards redistribution for the active vacation of workers, it is considered that this would improve the application of health care laws, protection at work and directly affect the better living status of workers. And they have an objection to why taxation of dividends is abolished, then they consider that a permanent category should be introduced that would determine a personal deduction, suggest that it be at the lowest pay level. Also, I think that this Mr. Minister should consider what it is if the worker no longer receives the salary for months and then cannot use a personal deduction if this applies to two different years, and he received a salary, say, early last year for the past year. Serious remarks are also made by the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen, those with more or less justifications say it is actually an unacceptable way for them to switch craftsmen to pay taxes according to the profit tax, talking about increasing costs due to the conduct of double accounting and the like. In particular, they point out that the possibility of a one-time write-off of investments is lifted and are indicated that those such as those who establish a profit tax should also benefit from increased depreciation rates. We therefore consider it unnecessary to adopt a new Income Tax Act because the changes in this sense are minimal. We do not support the exemption of dividends from taxation, the minimum increase in personal tax deductions of 100 kuna and the limitation of tax exemptions for health services, sub-inhabitation costs, purchase of flats and interest on housing loans and their reduction to an annual level of 12,000 kuna. We believe that this will have a more significant impact on tax revenues in local and regional self-government, so in our opinion it should intervene in this case and in the Law on the financing of local and regional self-government, because any incurring into tax systems in the part where tax revenues are shared by state and local and regional self-government ultimately remains in, in fact, the local and regional self-government that has been abolished. So we believe that this way should not make the new Income Tax Act, and we are not prepared to support such changes that represent, in fact, not changes in the system, but only existing certain items in the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28836	We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, here you are. And if we should take a break when you don't vote. When you told us your decision not to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28837	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the respected representatives of the ministry. I've got to say something a little bit wider at first. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia defines Croatia as a social state. The dominant pension system will now and in the future be the first pillar, i.e. generational solidarity between current work and past work. The word "solidarity" means that everyone who receives wages is subject to a proportional level of their income, and those who receive they exercise their rights which are partly the result of their separation for others, and partly the result of social justice and justice and sustainability of the pension system, i.e. economic movements. Solidarity goes from rich to poor, not vice versa. Don't think I missed the subject, this is just an introduction. When it comes to solidarity, solidarity in the health system means that the employer pays a contribution proportionally to the salary of workers, and health services are used by those who need it and all have the right to the same level of health care. What does this have to do with the Income Tax Act? Looks like nothing. However, when you agree on a group of laws governing pension insurance rates and the highest pensions, you will see that the Income Tax Act in Article 33, which regulates the right to income on the basis of the income of the second income after the return of more paid contributions to the foundation, destroys the system of generational solidarity and negatively affects the social justice and sustainability of the pension system. What's actually going on? Let's go for example. The person who receives 100 thousand kuna gross wages, and has them among managers, entrepreneurs, there are Croats who receive it, in the treasury, so the company that pays it, so the company that pays in their name in the treasury is paying 20 thousand kuna per month, that's 20%. So that's what the company does for him. The largest basis for payment of contributions is regulated by the Obligation Insurance Contribution Act, which is the average salary times six, the coefficient of six, and all of it together times 12 months, which is 30 thousand kuna, which means that by mentioning the manager, the person mentioned in the pension system will enter 6 thousand kuna per month. The difference between what the company has paid and what will enter into the account is 14 thousand kuna per month and a certain gentleman, based on a request or a lady, will exercise the right to return more than 168 thousand kuna on the basis of a tax application. This means that his contribution rate is actually when the entire circle closes 6% against ordinary mortals, and that we, which means that we put the system upside down, because those with smaller incomes pay a proportionally higher rate of contribution. So we additionally reward managers and entrepreneurs, so rich, who, in addition to large salaries, earn the owners a greater profit, and by stimulating the departure of workers into early retirement, increase the social burdens of this country, and we still reward them. And in the end, we will reward them with an annual award for the production of disabled people and pensioners. And imagine the whole system was introduced in 2002. At the time of the coalition government that was or at least represented as a dominant social democratic government. There are people in Croatia who receive 200 thousand kunas per month and not all of them are poorly guilty that fate intended them to be in the right place at the right time, so their contribution rate means 3%. So we still have to reward them with 336 thousand kuna a year through the return of contributions for more paid contributions. Which they'll eventually pay their taxes in a year, if there's no other model of spillover. In 2002, pensioners' associations were against such a solution as in 1999. However, it has been shown that pensioners' associations are not respected, that the policy gives the pension system primarily a financial diet and abandons generational solidarity. For this approach in the countries of Western European democracy, we do not have a role model and I can responsibly say that in this respect Croatia is an experiment and it is a dictatorship of the International Monetary Fund and of the World Bank. Europe maintains a system of generation solidarity and builds it as a social anchor so that constitutional rights of citizens can be respected. A recent statement by French senior officials that they should build social cohesion speaks for itself enough. Shouldn't a Croatian citizen who earns 100, 200 or 300 thousand kunas be happy to provide 7, 15, 21 or more pensioners a month with his retirement fund? Shouldn't he be happy that with his salary, he will provide himself and his family with enough funds and real estate, so wealth that he won't have to worry about his pension? You should be happy and proud, if not, we must pass such laws that contribute to social balance and reduce social differences. To charge contributions, to account for the grey economy and to do everything possible to cover pension expenses with income. And this wildebeest thing goes to the rich. And I must say responsibly that it could increase the untaxable base to the height of the mandatory contribution. Just that there's social sensitivity and social justice. But then we have to leave the proportional system and we have to move selectively towards increasing the lowest non-taxable rate. The proportional system gives us or all those who have larger pensions the largest share of the increase in the non-taxable amount. That's not socially fair. That's mathematically correct, but it's not socially fair. The Croatian party of pensioners has given an amendment to Article 33 and the adoption of the same is the only condition under which the Croatian party of pensioners can vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28838	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28839	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives! So, the first thing I want to say is when this Income Tax Act is due to the fact that, in order to strengthen local self-government, the more precise decentralisation of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the income tax, should be left entirely to local self-government. Clearly, if you make it possible for someone, if you give them more income, then they should be reduced to greater obligations. But what am I saying? In 2003, 3 billion kuna and 3 billion kuna were income taxed from the state in 2004. The country can therefore disavow this increase and these are more necessary than it is at this time of the unit of local self-government. This is definitely a new law in front of us. Right, there's a lot of old solutions, but the tax collectors themselves say it's a new law. So there are good and less good solutions, and for some of them that are proposed at this point, I don't think anyone knows what the effects are going to cause. The fact is, what I've been told by the tax collectors is that it's a simpler, more transparent and understandable law, even this change of residence, the non-resident doesn't need to be irritated no matter what the foreign concepts are. So the current rates are held, these are 15, 35, 35, 45%, with the tax base increased by 25% by 0.5% and applied to that factor difference of 4.5 to 5%. I guess it's as good as it is that personal deduction is now a thousand and 600 kuna and before it was a thousand and 500 kuna. So, on that basis, less taxes will be paid to the state by the fact that personal deductions can also be around 2 thousand kunas. Although there could be maybe 2,000 kunas, if that were to happen, it would certainly be a gift in the budget of local self-government. But I already said, in that case, the state should give up that kind of tax in its favour. Before the annual tax base of up to 36,000 kuna was taxed with 15%. Now it's 38 grand, up to 36,000 kuna taxed with 15%, now it's $38,000 400. Up to 45 thousand kunas before it was 25 I think taxed 25% now it's 57 thousand and 600 kuna. So, one important improvement. Up to 171 thousand kunas with 35%, now there are 172 thousand 800 kunas, so it doesn't matter. And over 252 thousand kunas with 45%, now it's 252 thousand kunas replaced by 268 thousand and 800 kuna. So everybody's going to make a little profit, but they're going to make the most of the profit compared to the ones whose base is up to 57 thousand 600 kuna. The IDS argues that there was more space and that the non-taxable part should be increased to at least 1,000 and 700 kuna. Well, it's a good thing it's clearly not considered an income now. It's a good thing you don't pay advances for those who open crafts or other jobs anymore. So, no advances are paid until tax returns are filed, and that's what all artisans in my court will welcome who are now planning to start a new job. It is also good that and this is the novelty of income on rooms can be taxed casually. It is good for all Adriatic counties from Istria down to Dubrovnik, however, it will only be established by sublaws. But let us now see what, on the other hand, in this legislative proposal, is bad, although I will later particularly touch areas of special state concern, or mountainous areas, and what interests me, who come from Buzet, in particular. So, when Istria is compared to those areas of special state care or mountainous area, it is the area of Buzet, Gračisje, Motovunac, Roviana, Laniste, Lupoglava, Oprtlja and Grožnjana. When the Primorje-Gorski County is Wednesday it is the space of Matulji, Klane and the entire mountain cotters etc. But before now, about the reduction of the relief which is bad because now there are only 12 thousand and 600 kuna left, and before that was for the apartment, means 12 thousand 600 kuna and for the insurance of 12 thousand 600 kuna and for the healing of 12 thousand 600 kuna, although the truth is a small number of people in Croatia could use it. It was generally used by those who had slightly higher incomes, although I don't think there are large incomes in those who, for example, have seven, eight or nine thousand kuna and have come into a position to end up taking advantage of it. Now, as a key argument against this law, there is a dividend and a share in profits based on the share in capital. The dividend is clearly not income, but this law regulates dividends. In the past, profit tax was to be paid when dividends were withdrawn at 15% and now those rates are gone. So now that the profit is drawn there's no taxation of the 15% mentioned. And then there's the question of what it means. Whether it will be obtained from the Republic of Croatia from abroad or will attract from abroad, as Minister Shuker said in the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that so far it could be drawn abroad or out of the company anyway but should have always paid 15% of the tax. Now there will be no more taxation. So, banks, they're 95% in the hands of foreigners, cementists who are also in the hands of foreigners, hotel houses, they're about 50% in the hands of foreigners, they'll be able to get their profits out of the Republic of Croatia without paying 15%. There's also HT, there's and I don't know these big new television houses, etc. Now the question is whether it is possible to make some distinction here on this plan to keep that profit in the Republic of Croatia. Also, domestic legal entities will be able to extract profits from their companies instead of staying in the company and further fertilising through the company rather than spending, for example, on apartments, yachts, cars, mistresses, etc. Now that's the point. Of course. ... Well, it's what it is. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that's what that means, that's the point. The wife of a mistress, what, clearly. There's a little distance you can always do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28840	We'll pretend they're gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28841	Okay. That's the point now. Of course we've done what we wanted to do so far. In Croatia, 3 billion and 200 million kuna were in receipt of profits. I personally believe that this profit extraction is not good and that the profit is good in the event of withdrawal that this profit should be taxed. Maybe more than 15%. True, the question also opens whether it dims foreign investment. Will there be more investment if you can now withdraw profits? If so, it's great, if not, and it's probably going to be so, it's bad. Hence, it is very difficult to identify. However, I know whether foreign capital will enter Croatia or Croatians, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of nationality, will go abroad. See finally only the city of Zagreb and the county of Istria have a gross social product larger than the Republic average. Only this city of Zagreb and the county of Istria have a gross social product larger than the Republic average. Only this city of Zagreb and the county of Istria have a nominal gross social product about what it was in 1990. But when I had the chance to talk to small entrepreneurs, they're gonna have a lot of relief because they're obviously going to spend. He's free to dispose of his money. I would, I repeat, be in the current positions if you want to invest in business, then invest, and don't bring the company into one risky situation by extracting any profit that's coming true. Let me get back to this mountainous mountainous area now. There, surely, my inhabitants of Matulja, Buzeta pardon, my Buzecans, the inhabitants of Matulja, Klana, Gračisa will also profit. The personal deduction so far was 2250 kuna, and from now on it should be 2400 kuna. At an average salary of 4100 kuna in Buzet, a higher salary will be paid by this law with each of them 40 kuna per month. So 500 kuna a year. It's an increase of 1% on that basis, but there are other increases in which I'll talk later. What is also important is that the tax return will no longer go on the burden of local self-government but of the state, and all the basis of the Law on the implementation of the state budget, so let's say on that basis Buzet should receive an additional million kuna more than last year or this year. Looking at the fact that one Marko, Janko, Giovanni, Frane, doesn't matter, from Buzet, who are workers in Cimos and who have an average salary per month now 4.3% more than ever, these laws certainly support these people. Now for this improvement as a Buzecan, I will unfortunately not be able to vote because I am not taking part in this vote, but if this dilemma about Zuzula were resolved, I would certainly raise my hand for him. So based on the untaxed, taxed part of our salary is going to be 40 kuna on average monthly. Based on the return to the hill-mounted area so far it was 1917 kuna, it will now be 2160 kuna. The increase in the non-taxable part plus the coefficient for children plus the hilly area brings us monthly wage growth of 4.3%. And I said the city of Buzet on the basis of tax returns also has something, some profit. Finally, all these owners of companies, small owners, are that they can freely distribute their profits, however, I will once again say no matter what I do against to enable them. The dilemma is that, however, I said there are good solutions. Clearly, it's not good for the relief to be reduced now. If they were at least 2 times 12,000 kunas, or if they remained as they were, I think this law would still be one significant step forward. What's most important in my court might be when this profit is due to monopolies from the tobacco factory, HT, banks and so on taxing separately, I'm going to call it a monopoly tax that could be double of this dividend that should be paid now and then let them do with their money whatever they want. It is absurd that there are drones in the Republic of Croatia that, on an annual basis, profit from billions and millions of kunas because of their monopoly position. And finally, this law has certain good things. On the other hand, this relief reduction is bad. The withdrawal of dividends without taxation is at this point something that no one knows how to end no matter what big and small craftsmen agree to do so in favor of them. And finally, in Croatia, at this point about 400,000 people are registered on minimum wage. One is paid, the other is shown and that is the reason that income tax is definitely further reduced, i.e. increase the non-taxable part so that at this time, there would certainly be room for it to be at least 1700 kuna, perhaps up to 2000 kuna. It's clear when we talk about this law, I'm starting from a local patriotic approach, but everyone will admit that 4.3% for the average citizen of Buzet is one increase that no one reasonable can refuse and that they as ordinary people expect to be shown to them through their receipts in the year ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28842	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Mr. Representative Tonci Tadic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28843	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Relatively soon after the first reading of the Income Tax Act, we also have a second reading, i.e. the Final Proposal of this Law, where we from the HSP Club must show significant dissatisfaction with the fact that the Income Tax Act is adopted after the adoption of the budget for the following year. So if the minister in his budget project has already predicted how much income tax we will receive then it is crystal clear that today it is absolutely pointless to submit any amendment because, of course, man will not adopt either because he has already predicted that his revenue in the budget will be as it is. Unless, by chance, someone proposes an amendment that would increase income tax. That is why we consider a purely hypocritical debate on income tax and giving this law to Mr. Minister for debate after the budget for next year has been adopted. This was supposed to be discussed months ago. We had time for this both in September and in October and in early November, and not to adopt these legislative changes at the end of this assembly session, I repeat, after adopting the budget for next year. My predecessors mentioned that this tax participates in a very small part in the total amount of this year as well as in all previous budgets. The income tax participates in filling the budget with around 3 billion kuna and even slightly less as forecasted for next year. And what is particularly important is that such a tax allows for even greater shifts because ultimately it will not change the Croatian state budget for a significant amount. This is a brand-new tax. The government and the ministry decided, however, instead of patching up existing taxes on the existing tax system, to draw up a whole new tax law. But what we haven't gotten here yet and what I asked for last time is the number of taxpayers with a certain amount of pay. If we knew how many taxpayers we really influence with these changes. We here have a calculation of how much the average employee's salary is changed for a new tax system, income tax, but we still have no data on how much it actually amounts to in the budget itself, or how many taxpayers it actually is. When we talk about what's really changing. I have here two very interesting images, one so how much is the application of income tax to a single person. I'll show it to everyone very well. You're, of course, trying to see the difference between these two lines, so old and new taxes. You'll find it hard to see because there's no difference between these lines. She's very small. Here we have a picture for a family with two children the difference is just a little bit bigger. But in fact, that difference is almost gone. So our workers in this sensational new income tax system are not actually going to make a significant profit. And that's the point of the story when it comes to the shifts in the Income Tax Act and the impact on employment policy. I've said it a thousand times already, but I'm going to repeat it once again, I suggest to all governments in transition to cut income taxes, because that extra money that a worker gets through PDWE anyway brings back to the state. And I really don't see any reason not to do the same here. The real tax reform must therefore make sure that the tax burden is equalised across all pay groups. This tax reform retains the tax burden on the lowest groups but therefore, ladies and gentlemen, reduces the tax burden on those who have a salary of more than 5000 kn. They've changed. For those who pay less than 5,000 kn no change. Whether they're with one child with two children or single. There may be changes, but the line is 50 kn. So these are real changes that are the real effect of this tax. As far as dividends are concerned, I'm asking again the question of who we're actually protecting with a move like this. Which shareholders are how many domestic shareholders we help and encourage with this. According to me and my colleagues in HSP, we help in the first place that society that is already paying taxes at a rate of 45% with the highest incomes. Not this widest circle of tax payers with salaries below £5,000. It is said that we will lead to an increase in investment by removing the dividend tax. But I don't believe it because from all our contacts with the Chamber of Commerce, with an employer's association, with a reverse chamber with foreign embassies, I can calmly tell you that investments in Croatia do not come or come in larger not because of the tax on dividends, but because they have doubts about the functioning of the Croatian rule of law. What have trouble investing for extremely complicated procedures for which they have to break the door from the office to the office. But also foreign investment is difficult to come to Croatia for tax experiments and because each minister believes that in his term he must change at least four times a tax to be effective. That's Croatia's problem. For all these reasons, we cannot support most of this law. We consider the intention to be good, but Mr. Minister, this is what we insist on is that you amend the article in the 53rd of this bill. So it does. Physical persons members of the family of the death-bearing, imprisoned or missing Croatian defender from the Homeland War do not pay taxes on income from family pensions, i.e. money benefits in the amount of family pensions made under the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. We believe that this is necessary, for the sake of our Croatian defenders and for all the goals that have been outlined in the new law on Croatian defenders. So it's only your goodwill, Mr. Minister, that you accept this amendment. Because there really isn't an explanation for what you've given in this final bill of law. For all these reasons, our club will think twice about whether or not they will accept this income tax law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28844	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28845	Mr. Vice President, it's an incorrect quote from an esteemed colleague, I quote. "If the law were to bring a reverse application," which would mean a quick one. The notorical fact is that the law in the regular procedure, in the second reading, was the first reading. And quite enough time for all kinds of noticeable remarks. So in a regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28846	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Ms. Nevenka Majdanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28847	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the parliament. Income tax law applies to the largest population, it is interesting for all those who, on any basis, make income or any other income. That is why it is very important for him to be simple complete and understandable. The current law applicable from 1 January 2001 has been amended three times, and each amendment has resulted in additional difficulties in its application of implementation and interpretation both for taxpayers and for the tax administration. The precise and clear definition of the provisions in the new law will remove the ambiguities in the implementation. Frequent requests by taxpayers for unclear provisions, simplify the production and submission of tax returns, without additional opinions and interpretations. And it aims to make his changes and supplements as rare as possible. The law is based on the principles of unity and justice so that those who earn more and pay more and on the principle of neutrality and efficiency. This means that the method of determining the tax base, the tax rate, the billing and the payment of income tax is equal to that of all taxpayers. The law clearly shows the direction of the government's economic policy. Its social component is particularly highlighted. Namely, the law increased the non-taxable part of income, increased tax deductions for dependent members of the family and children, the disability of the taxpayer and his family members. They were exempt from paying income taxes from family pensions of members of the family of the dead defenders of the Homeland War and children who made a pension after the death of their parents. The social character of this law is also seen in the provision that abstentioned members of the family and dependent children are considered to be recipients of special regulations, such as social support, child support, reception for the child’s child’s equipment and family pensions after the death of parents regardless of the amount of these benefits. When taking into account the above-mentioned reliefs and applying to the largest group of debtors that will be able to use them, then it is seen that it has a full social impact. That is when it is seen that they are suitable for the most vulnerable structures that each increase in income is significant and important. On the other hand, provisions relating to areas of special state concern and mountain-mounted areas have a major impact, only on them, an effect that should only be seen and exploited. Highlighted incentives for research and development are needed. In fact, income tax bonds carrying out their own activity may further reduce income from R & D expenditure and up to 100% of the amount shown in the accounts during the tax period. More stringent criminal provisions have been extended for taxpayers who are payers of income, especially for those who do not supply or unlawfully supply prescribed data and records, but also for those who do not make payments through authorised payment organisations. These provisions, with enhanced supervision and control, will significantly introduce order and discipline in the calculation and payment of income from non-performing work, thereby affecting the reduction of work on black, on the other hand equating working conditions, both for the employer and for the employer. Finally, the Croatian Democratic Community Club proposes that this law be adopted in the proposed text, taking into account the fact that it is one of the laws that will contribute to the implementation of tax reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28848	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club PGS Mr. Representative Radimir Cacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28849	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to say a few words very briefly about these two laws. First of all, I don't think it would make any sense that these laws are called the law on changes and additions to each other, not that they have such a pretentious name of the Tax on Profits and the Tax on Income, because it's cosmetics or even serious cosmetics. If we're talking income tax, I remind you that the coalition government has made a 50% shift in two steps, from 1,000 to 1,500. That's serious. In parallel with that, we also transferred a significant amount to local and regional self-government, strengthened decentralisation, and what we are witnessing here is a shift from 1,500 to 1,600, objectively, if someone were to make a slightly more serious analysis of the cost of changing the programme by the payout companies, we are somewhere here the total cost of change of paper and software is approximately the total result that comes from this. I just don't think that this kind of bluff should be, there's no need, let's not do anything, let's wait until we decide on a more serious shift that must be at least 1,750, and our proposal is as well known as 2,000, from 1,500 to 2,000, and it is supported by all the unions in this country and then it gives a real shift at the level of receiving Croatia's citizens of 4% increase. Of course, what we're doing in parallel with that is further analyzes the effects of this conditionally said positive cosmetics. We're cutting these reliefs from 48,000 people on insurance, apartment, health services and investment maintenance, we're bringing them down to 12,000. They've never been used in a full spectrum before. Therefore, there is no reason to do so. In part of the income tax, of course it is serious and there are many reasons to discuss whether or not to tax dividends. In the adult countries of the market, which Croatia does not yet have much reason to apply what this law proposes. However, in a country that is 3rd in the transition countries of investment, we need to rediscover the foreign direct, and the effects nowhere, we need to ask ourselves a little bit about what these investments are and where these investments are and then the answers are clear. All of us know these answers are financial institutions, especially banks, of course, monopolies, pharmacies, cements, telecoms, these are foreign capital investments. Tomorrow it will be the tobacco industry and, of course, that monopoly here has an important interest in making profit elegantly, even without that minimum prose. This law goes directly to foreign monopolies and capital out of the country. So I don't think it's a good thing that law is passed today. In 5, 10 years, when the whole story gets another dimension, I support that concept. That's what we talked about, and in the past government, it's not that, that debate is pretty old already. The same argument I made back then. We here have this problem with craftsmen where I advocate giving them space to give those who do not decide to enter the new tax system, to reorganize their existing one, who just want to stay in the existing one and not be taken as their base this year. And that's what all the changes to the craft chambers are looking for. In a section called tax credit. It's this one-time write-off of property we're having it now, the government's abolishing it now, the fact is that it's one extra benefit we're reducing, it's not going to be of particular importance, but it's certainly a step in the wrong direction, because anyway, at the moment of the sale, it's all going into profit and resubsistence to the tax. Therefore, there is no way to escape tax according to the current system, and there is one relief in investment. What I would especially point out here is something else, that we don't have what we should have, and that's capitol gain tax. We don't have a tax on property growth, and that's essentially the problem with our tax system. Of course, we're growing the value of real estate, we're growing the value of shares, and that's where the real wealth in this country was created. Anyone who knows the failures of this tax system of ours, of course, is using it, but it's not good for this country. It's good for taxpayers and wrong strategy, it's good for people who have money, but it's not good for the country as a whole and in that sense the real reform should go in that direction and I plead, it's not of course simple in that sense, but I plead to do so. I'll talk about our proposals when they come to the agenda, I think they're at this Parliament meeting and we'll talk about them more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28850	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. It's on behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go. It expired at 18.27.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, what we expected in the Croatian Peasant Party is, above all, if the new Income Act comes before us, to be affirmative, to bring something new, to answer the question actually to which it should answer, and here in the preface that there is no indication of what it will mean for new investments in Croatia, which will mean for development, employment, exports. However, of course there is no mention, because the changes are actually only cosmetic, even though I wouldn't actually be against all the changes that are mentioned here, above all in HSS we support an increase in tax deduction from 1.500,00 to 600,00 kuna. We also support the possibility of increasing the non-taxable share of income for children, for dependent family members and for disabled people, etc. However, why and against such a procedure when we are supposed to have a new law in two readings within a month, is also a vague phenomenon of our Parliament's work that some of the laws that have been in the procedure since August, for which four clubs have made their proposal for changes as for example. The road safety law, because of these dramatic changes in the law, is waiting for order. It's just unexplainable that that's exactly how we work here in the Parliament and create this agenda. This law is therefore less or less neutral, better said he is theatrical, as the ruling party has said it will make tax reform. I see tax reform as a desire to reduce the VAT rate to 20%, that the profit tax rate is also 20%, the income tax is 20%, as well as the dividend tax is 20%. To be transparent, to be recognizable, I ask myself and you, Mr. Minister, which foreign investor will come here to Croatia to invest if we four times change the Income Tax Act in four years and change it radically. We change radically because we play with profit tax in one part, and in the other part we go to the extreme not to recognise investment. We do not recognise the one-time possibility of investment that has been in option for the past three years. And we go to another extreme, to force all those who buy assets worth 2 thousand kunas, so that they can't make a one-time write-off, but that they have to enter into a book of property and each year account for depreciation. It's obviously another shift towards administration, I don't know what, completely unnecessary business of entrepreneurs. I simply don't know what the state is afraid of if it allows someone to write off one time and thereby reduce the base on which they pay income tax or profit. So because the state is waiting for him and in the next period, in the next period, his profits will be higher, he will not be able to account for depreciation and the state will always do him anything with taxes. But if it allows him one-time write-off, it allows him precisely that part of the income he has left to invest, to decide and just invest in the construction of the plant, in buying new machines, in exporting, in new employment. Here you see, I'd like a tax reform like that where in four years we wouldn't play the Income Act five times. We would like to continue with what the former coalition government did, where we reduced the tax rates to 20% in profit, where we reduced the rates of contributions to pension and health insurance by 2%, where we put exactly in the Income Act to reduce the base for research, for each new employment and for investment. Here in income tax is lost and the law on large investments so that craftsmen and small simply cannot use these benefits given if it is more investment and higher employment in Croatia. This is non-transparent and despite the small changes that we in HSS could actually support because of an approach that is not reformal, which does not allow development, we cannot support in the HSS because it is obviously becoming questionable whether we will be able to achieve a rate of 3.5 to 4% of the development, let alone reach a 5% rate that allowed access to income laws, profit laws, high investment laws adopted by the former government. Here, in some ways, we only eliminate these benefits and due to the lack of tax reform which is an important part of economic development, we can conclude that in the next year to two we will not achieve a 5% growth rate because I would like to see such an investor who would come with significant investments in Croatia without knowing what to expect for the next few days.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28852	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first is Mr. Representative, Mr. Zvonimir Mršić. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Then Mr. Representative Damir Sesvečan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28853	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say that I will support this Final Proposal of the Income Tax Act, because I believe that, as part of the overall tax reform, I will contribute to simplicity and transparency and the principle of fairness and efficiency in taxation. In the first reading almost everything is said about this bill and even tonight a lot, but I would like to highlight a few of the most important changes and improvements in relation to the current law. The current tax rates of 15, 25, 35 and 45% have been maintained, but the tax base for taxation is 25% increase by 0.5 or applied to the difference between the multiple factor 2.0 and 5.0. The basic personal deduction was increased from 1,500 to 1,600 kuna per month and increased non-taxable income amounts for dependent members of the family and children. As explained in this proposal for the law, what the minister also said was an increase in the basic personal deduction by 100 kuna will result in a reduction in the revenues of the state budget on this basis by more than 850 million kuna or for cca. 10%. Today, these are real budget options. The increase in personal deduction will also reflect the income of units of local and regional self-government because the share of income tax revenue belonging to local and regional self-government units in total income from income tax is represented by almost 70%. This will be compensated, as indicated by the positive effects of the wider scope of the corporate income tax, as proposed by the Final Proposal of the Tax on Profits Act. The existing provisions for the recognition of personal deductions for personal services and housing needs have been maintained. the purchase or construction of the first living space, maintenance of the existing living space and paid rent and the premium of insurance paid up to a total amount of up to 12 thousand kuna per year. This law lays down a number of non-income and non-taxable incomes. Thus, incomes are not considered dividends and profit shares based on the share in capital, and it is expected that non-taxation of dividends will boost investment and contribute to the creation of new jobs. Also, under this law, family pensions are not considered to be incurred by children after the death of parents, sports scholarships, union and social assistance, the reception of students and students at regular schooling, for work through student and student associations, etc. Taxes on income were released from the family pension of members of the family of the late Croatian defender from the Homeland War, which has been the case so far. And Croatian wartime war invalids from the Homeland War do not pay income tax and pensions in proportion to the degree of established disability. The newspaper in this law is the regulation of the flat taxing of income from renting apartments, beds and rooms to travellers and tourists and the organisation of camps with the possibility of selecting taxes from these activities on the basis of business books, which will certainly affect the reduction of the grey economy in this activity. A whole new content has also been introduced as a source of income, another income under which all receipts are considered not to be realised in a working relationship as non-permanent work or pensions that are not realised as independent activities, crafts, free occupation, agriculture and forestry as property and property rights, capital and insurance. Receipts based on the second income would be taxed at a rate of 25% without the right to flat-rate expenditure other than copyright fees, professional activities of journalists, artists and athletes, as well as receipts for performing artistic, entertainment, sports, literary and fine-tuning activities which, when determining the second income based on these receipts, are recognised as being 30% of the income. There are some reasons why I will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28854	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28855	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Like in our first reading when we discussed this Income Tax Act, I will limit my discussion in the second reading to the debate on tax reliefs, that is, this section relating to the increase of the non-taxable part of income. I think it remains the thesis that two basic categories of tax relief, social and investment promotion. When we talk about this category of social measures, it should be said that in this context, relief has been introduced in the last term, i.e. increasing the non-taxable share of income for the costs of health services and the purchase of orthoptic aids, the introduction of benefits for the purchase of apartments and houses, and what is important to say about the resolution of permanent, permanent housing problems, i.e. making it easier to pay rent and investment maintenance in the existing residential space. Although no announcements have been announced that they will be abolished, they have made announcements that existing tax reliefs will be lifted, these existing ones that we now have, which I have just stated, have been significantly reduced here. Reduced in two ways. First, if the amount had been reduced to 12,000 kunas in sum for all of these tax breaks, for all of these categories, and that's not good, my colleagues had already talked about it before me but I wouldn't have further elaborated it but I still think it's totally unacceptable. If we take those arguments that an average housing loan of 40,000 euros in the first years of payment has an annual interest somewhere around 12 thousand kunas, it turns out that someone who is younger, who in the first years of payment of the loan must not be sick and must have absolutely no other problems so that he can achieve what right I think, which he has the right to. The second thing that I think is absolutely bad here is that, judging by the debate, very few MPs have noticed, which is that the relief that applied to the purchase of an apartment or house has been significantly redefined. It has been redefined in a way that this relief now refers only to the purchase of the first apartment or first house, and not as it has been the case so far, that it refers to the purchase of any apartment and any house that was intended to permanently resolve the residence of our fellow citizens. Removing, or restricting the use of a relief for buying an apartment or house on the first apartment and the first house is not good for a few reasons, we already have in sales of property special reliefs relating to the first apartment or the first house. Here, when we often discuss out of life we forget the real situation which is very easy to imagine, for example one younger family, a younger married couple who have a 50-square apartment at the moment they create their family have a few children, they need to increase that apartment, simply meet the conditions for a permanent residence, it will no longer be the first apartment, it will not be the first house, it will not be the right to tax relief, and here we keep saying that it is a very important family and demographic policy but for that to be done and not only to speak. I thought in my first reading that it was some kind of semblance, that it was an accident because it was probably meant to be the only apartment and the only house and the only real estate owned by a citizen. I agree that this should refer to the only apartment or the only house, that there is a reduction of possible malversion, but this is just about buying the first apartment and the first house is not good because that statement itself is contradictory. Because the first apartment does not necessarily mean solving the need for permanent housing. Secondly, as regards this law, in my first reading, I suggested that we introduce new tax exemptions here, i.e. the amounts relating to the payment of fees and tuition for undergraduate and postgraduate studies at public higher schools in the Republic of Croatia are also, now also increasing the non-taxable share of income, as well as for the purchase of computers, computer equipment and programmes for foreign language courses and information courses. It was rejected with a very funny explanation. I cannot believe that one serious Ministry of Finance can send such a thing to the Croatian Parliament, it was rejected for reasons that would further complicate the implementation of the Tax on Income Act. And otherwise, we don't complicate our lives by telling them one thing, we're asking another of them, etc. Tax administration and the entire state administration exist precisely in implementing and implementing laws and facilitating people's lives. Now it turns out I am, and we shouldn't be introducing new reliefs, because that, imagine the complications of law enforcement. It's complicated law enforcement. While introducing this complication with the first apartment and house, where most of the citizens who in the tax application for the past year will have the right to do so now will not have the right because it is not their first apartment or house, but it does not complicate the implementation of the law. Another reason. We talked about scientific money here yesterday, we talked about assistants here yesterday, we talked about science again today, education is full of the mouth of how to encourage investment in education, how important it is to us, how it all needs to be. But today, however, a tax relief relating to the payment of admissions and tuition for people who pay for primary postgraduate studies themselves is not possible. Mr. Minister, an assistant at the university at the public institute has a salary of $4000, 400. From that I pay the tuition for my postgraduate study of 10 to 15 thousand kuna. It's not good and it's not fair to these people. These people are needed in Croatia, we are all in favour of them, so once we have abolished one other part of the tax relief, when we are not paying them enough, this is what we discussed here in the Croatian Parliament yesterday, give at least what they invest in the governmental education of which Croatia will benefit at least as a tax relief. Out of four thousand 400 kuna, the doctor of science has to pay the apartment, because he's a tenant. He has to pay the cost of his own postgraduate study and has a salary of 4 grand 400 kuna. And then we wonder why we don't have people in science, why we don't have people in education? We're amazed at what we're doing when we're breaking these educational laws, at the moment that we can solve it at least partially or in part, and that's the law between us and income tax, and then we all hide in the mouse hole, or we discuss it at seven o'clock in the evening, as was the first reading that nobody hears and sees it. I mean, it's not fair politics, it's not good public policy, it's not tax policy, it's not any other policy. Another reason. Minister Primorac announced that most of the studies are paid with the support of the state, i.e. that students have undergraduate studies, study with the support of the ministry, except for those professions that the ministry must or some... wise men we have chosen today, determine what is important for the state. And to expect it, it takes everyone to know how much it costs and how much they pay for their schooling. But then it is quite wrong not to introduce it as a tax relief. I, once again, find it most unlikely for me in the whole story that the Minister of Finance's argument would further complicate law enforcement. Bad measures, bad laws, we complicate people's lives. Instead of doing the fact that we create such systems, which is possible to enforce the law, to make it easier for people to live. One more argument, and then I'll conclude my argument. We in the state budget of Mr. Minister for this year have reduced funding for the scholarship of regular students, we have reduced funding for the scholarship and scientific training of graduates, we have reduced resources to invest in student standards. Now you won't accept this proposal again. I must say that the only conclusion to this country, despite the fact that it is constantly declaring it does not care about science, does not care about education, does not care about the fact that Croatia is obviously really going to start, because the policy of this and in the budget, but also here in income tax, not only do you not start Croatia, not that you are stopping it, you are destroying it. And that's why I won't vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28856	Thank you very much. What anyone had a chance to do, let's let go, let's move on. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister. Look, what is the relationship between the Minister himself and the HDZ, according to this Law, best spoken of by the time this Law is being discussed. Time of day, both in the first and second readings. Minister, if you were proud of this Law, we'd discuss it at half past ten in front of a full court, you'd be proud of the cameras, bringing something good for the citizens. But no, first and second readings, we hide in the dark, we run away from the public so it doesn't come out, or as little as possible to know what this Law actually brings. He's a step back. He is a step backwards, and has been announced as a major tax reform. Maybe he's reforming it, but what's being reformed is citizens' rights. The rights of citizens are being reformed because they are narrowing down. And that's what he wants to hide. That's what you don't want to look into your eyes. There's an untaxable share of income, strange wonders from 1500 to 1600 kuna. It's for per citizen 18 kuna per month. Very much, it's really not something you'd have to say or boast about. So the former government you claimed to be incompetent, that untaxable part raised from 1,000 to 1500 kuna, 50%. You promised, you promised a higher standard to the citizens. So show them that you're ready to go to them. Please accept the union's proposal and increase that non-taxable portion from 1500 to 2000 kuna, at least as a former incompetent government. Here, be so incompetent for the citizens, so don't offer them a relief, an increase in the untaxable portion of 100 kuna, but be so incompetent and offer them 500 kuna. Okay. I'd understand that for fiscal reasons, you don't increase the untaxable part, when at the same time, you wouldn't reduce the relief. So you're reducing them. Be careful, they used to be on medical services, buying an apartment, the worst for the apartment, all the total amount of 48 thousand kuna. And now you're reducing it to a total of 12,000 kuna. And now you say, that very interesting explanation that these reliefs, that they use the rich. Very strange. So whoever pays rent for the apartment is rich to you ministers. So see if he's rich, he'd probably buy his own apartment or have at least as much real estate if I could even add up as much as Minister Zuzula has, and he wouldn't be in the subunity. And besides, why not cumulatively apply these reliefs? So what does that one relief have to do with each other? Because what it means is that now, according to you, whoever is a tenant and makes a relief as a tenant, he can't get sick, because he won't be able to pay for treatment as he has so far during Racan's incompetent government, he won't be able to make any relief if he pays for the treatment. Well, he's quite a tenant. Well, since he's a tenant, what else would they confess to him and be sick? Why would they help him here? It's the logic of the minister that stems from the amendment of this law. We have proposed and suggested, not only the retention of existing reliefs, but also the introduction of new ones. What is a country's tax policy for? Of course they collect taxes that the state can function. But tax policy answers another question. What does the state actually want with its citizens? What kind of behavior does it encourage? Whether she wants, she can say free the citizens of taxes if they buy, if they spend, buy cars, pumpkins, she can if she thinks it's good and desirable citizen behavior. The state introduces among other reliefs in order to encourage a form of behaviour, for example, investment in our own education, and here we propose to introduce reliefs for postgraduate studies, for learning foreign languages, for getting computers because we think that this country needs educated people, that educated people will pull this country out, that they will achieve what you promised, give birth to Croatia, start Croatia what you have already said. We don't think there are enough people in this country who know foreign languages. We don't think there's enough people who can buy a computer. And they need it because tomorrow they're going to join the world of work, how they're going to be competitive. That's where foreign companies come in. So where are they going to get a job? Where are these young people going to get a job if they don't learn good foreign languages if they don't learn how to work on a computer? By introducing these reliefs, we'd help them do it. Not just them. We'd help the whole country, but that's not what we're doing. And the third thing that changes in this law and where Mr. Cacic is absolutely right that the whole law could actually be amended and amended by law rather than new law, but it is clearly written to cover up what is changing because what is changing to you is not going to honor the minister, it is not an honor for you. It's a dividend. What's a dividend? Capital revenue. What's income? It's a work-in. And now look, one worker in the latrine, one teacher, one doctor, one professor, they pay a certain tax on their income, and the one who makes that income out of capital is not, we forgive it. Who are they? They're stockholders. Minister, your party friends. Your party friends, who have become owners of the shares in the original privatisation of HDZ, are eligible for them and are not eligible for young people, are not encouraged by the country's education. Therefore, for all that is said, I see and if I vote I could not vote in favour of this proposal, but I will not vote because I protest as well as my entire club for faking the quorum and I do not wish to assist such an insult of parliamentaryism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28858	Mr. Representative, I share your wishes not to broadcast this television. It really needs to be done to keep the television on and off for four, five hours, especially the famous debates. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Markovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28859	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's an absolutely incorrect quote of what one relief has to do with the other. It does because the sums cleared our budget this year. In ten days alone, the municipality lost a million kunas as far as relief is concerned, and you shared them with a cap and a fist pre-election. Then, I'm talking about foreign language and young people. Foreign language and computers learn at school, have all the benefits, schools are relatively well equipped. The economy has equipped them, and this is what this is about. As far as party friends are concerned, I think more of yours participated than ours, but you didn't want to make a list yourself, so if you want to find that, we'll find the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28860	Thank you very much. Here's a review on behalf of the Government of Finance Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28861	Thank you very much. If I'm not mistaken, Mr. Vice President, Reverend Stazic was last, so this is practically the final word. So, before I look back at some comments, I would like to thank everyone for the debate and the normal thing that the government will consider all the amendments. And I must say that some of the amendments proposed by the Government will be what has been seen to adopt some amendments. However, it is not good to chase concepts. It's not good when it comes to dividend tax and business banks. The dividend tax is paid by citizens who have certain shares. And if we're saying at the same time that we're bothered by the profit of "business banks" so isn't it logical that the savings from these banks try to attract you to invest somewhere else in the capital market that this capital market is developing. Isn't it logical to look at it that way when it comes to dividend tax? But you know what? It's very embarrassing when we talk about income tax, so let's just say that based on the tax provisions on dividends, some business bank is going to draw money. However, I must say that a far greater amount is the dividend tax paid by citizens for their shares. But look, if we're talking about the rule of law and if we're saying we all have to pay taxes, then the assumption is that citizens have paid their taxes on that income and they've invested the excess of their money in shares. So you invested money already on which tax was paid. That's an assumption and that's the kind of thinking in normal countries. But I'm saying, we like to mix up the concepts here, and I especially don't want to talk about whose party or non-party friends have shares. I think there will come a time when a property card will have to be introduced in this country and it will be the basis for all the debates and not for the flat-rate accusations of individuals, and I think that the property card is a cultural achievement and a democratic achievement of all the countries. Or when we have to bring her in and draw a thick line and tell the gentlemen what happened, tomorrow's game rules are different for a simple reason. For all Croatian citizens to avoid politics. If you have this year's salary increased by 500 thousand kuna, if you have paid a income tax or profit tax depending on what kind of activity you are engaged in, you have the right to acquire and acquire movables and real estate. And I think maybe it's a mistake, and I think it's a document that if all the political parties in this country were to reach a consensus, to make one joint proposal, and since 1.1.2006, we have one document that will make life easier for everyone, simplify the rules of the game. And this is my call, a public invitation to all political parties to try to make that political consensus about that property card because it is something that is the achievement of modern democratic countries. This may be one of those five or six consensus that we will have to achieve during these two or three years of negotiations with the European Union. Well, I'm not gonna talk about it. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]] Look, here's another correct political offer coming up with a comment like this. I, it's my right as a representative of the government to say. Therefore, when it comes to dividends relating to companies, he is regulated by tax on deductions under Article 31. The profit tax law and we'll talk about it when there's a profit tax law, but I'm saying there's a huge disproportionateity in the given profit. We are constantly afraid that whoever invested in Croatia will seek to make a profit. One who has invested in Croatia, who has good and business purposes will seek to enlarge this gain and strengthen his company if he feels that he has a chance to do so. And this is your best indication that all companies in Croatia that have profits paid only 57 million kuna per deduction and at the same time the citizens paid 277. So the difference is basically one to the five. Because a businessman if he's invested money to make money, it's not a goal and an interest in profit. He's doing a business assessment of whether he's using it more to invest so he can strengthen the company or something else. BUT I'm saying if one very important category is thrown into political waters and at the same time we all forget that both governments, and this government, and probably and future governments will sign contracts to avoid double taxation, then we know that practically this agreement on avoiding double taxation is analising these provisions of Article 31. Then let's not plant our own clips and say that someone avoids it like this, so let's look at all the companies that are in Austria. And at this point, the basis of the double tax avoidance contract doesn't pay taxes per deduction. Well, I mean, why should we say honestly, why do they shut down negotiations with Germany on double taxation contracts? Is it really necessary for Croatia to have a contract from Yugoslavia? They are curious because of this provision because, according to that old provision, taxes are paid at deductions, and the Germans insist on 5%, and it is unfortunately a concern somewhere last year and last year and the country with which Croatia may have the most financial transactions, let's start with how many of our employees there have regulated the avoidance of double taxation based on the law signed by the former Yugoslavia. When winning as a category did not exist, there was the income of the socialist council that the work council had decided on. So we have such a contract with a country with which we definitely have the biggest financial exchange at one point. Since we have several hundred thousand pensioners, 500 thousand pirates and we're not talking business cooperation. And on the basis of this, all the great German concerts that work in Croatia have open holding companies in Austria and thus do not exactly pay taxes on deductions. That's what we need to say loud and clear. Then let's not hide that removing this provision gives us the opportunity to draw money from Croatia. Well, one and the other, and the third, the government signed a contract to avoid double taxation just to be one document that will enable us to communicate more easily and economically and financially with the world. Then why put a ball on the wrong ground? As far as foreign language schooling is concerned. I can understand colleagues to propose, but they also had a chance to propose this in the previous period. Tax reform is a realistic reflection of the current possibilities of the budget. It's a real reflection. I said the non-taxable part from 1500 to 2000 is 2 billion 800 million kuna less revenue in the budget. If that budget can, it can't handle it. The government's assessment that he can't stand it right now. Also processing tax returns, while reviewing tax returns only a few percent, can be talked about a tenth or 15% of tax returns have more than 12 thousand benefits. The one who pays rent for a rental apartment who's a tenant and doesn't have a monthly income to afford additional health insurance. So let's be honest with ourselves and say that's the case. So let's not speak under the cover of politics. Because I say the one who pays the same, we were hoping, and I also supported that proposal when a colleague of the Church suggested that, with the cost of renting, we would increase the number of those who rent the rooms. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. It turns out there are practically no tenants in Zagreb. So one measure my predecessor had, the best intentions, both fiscal and social, has not been achieved. We need to look for some other model to solve this problem. Because apparently the landlords wanted to put the rent problem on the renters. And they don't have enough resources to cover it. So this 12,000 is no depriving of those rights to which those rights were intended at the time of the adoption of the law. There is no denial of rights and this is to be assured based on a fat analysis of tax returns for 2003. Based on thick, thick analysis. I'm telling you, it's the biggest number of people who use reliefs that over six or seven thousand kunas earn money. And those who use 48 thousand kunas of relief should see what their incomes are. But I'm saying this I felt the need to say at the end of the debate because unfortunately in both the first and second reading whether out of ignorance, I'm not going to say it, but the tax on dividends and the deduction tax got mixed up, so I felt the need to say for this, and those who participated in the negotiations on the double tax avoidance contracts well know what it means. He practically adjudicates these provisions of Article 31. The profit tax law. I thank everyone again for the debate. The government will consider amendments and those able to adopt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28862	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28863	Speaking of dividend tax, the minister says, "Citizens made some income, paid a tax on it, so they bought the shares from the surplus, so now they have a dividend, so it would be unfair to pay the re-tax on that dividend," and says "it's not thinking in normal countries." But ministers in most European countries that I consider normal countries there's a dividend tax, and in that case your claim is completely incorrect unless we take it as true that these countries are abnormal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28864	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28865	It is an incorrect quote from Mr. Minister that we could propose these reliefs for education, for the cost of studying or information and learning foreign language in the past term. After two years we were unable to introduce them because we introduced existing tax reliefs relating to housing and health needs, which until then did not exist in the Croatian tax system that you are now partially abolishing or significantly more restrictively editing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28866	Thank you very much. I did not want to appeal to Article 32. The Rules of Procedure but I will do so at the end of this agenda point because the duties of the President of the Parliament because those who are currently replacing them, and I am now at this opportunity myself, calling on several times the announcements about, that they will not vote in the Assembly on certain points of the agenda, I call on Article 32, but not 18, which says to worry about the protection of the rights and fulfilment of the duties of MPs. This is in line with Article 14 on the duties of MPs, and the first indent of that article is that MPs have rights and responsibilities. That must be understood in the dialectic unity of one and the other, is it? And rights and duties. To participate in the meetings of the Parliament and to debate and vote on them. To vote. The 4th paragraph says, "To participate in the working bodies' sessions and to speak to them, and to the working bodies to which it is a member and to vote." I'm just warning because I've asked the President of the Parliament to inform us of the fulfilment of the duties of individual representatives and rights. It is therefore a duty to also have the right to represent and to debate and vote. One part of the MPs announces that they will not fulfil one part of their duties. That's what they're right to do. Even when elected, the MP doesn't have to go into the assembly for four years. No one can order it either, but it is my duty to chair this session, to call on the powers of the President of the Parliament and those replacing him to warn on Article 32, indent 18, and also on Article 14 of the Rules of Procedure, of course, whatever anyone wants to do. But after each item of the agenda that will be discussed, if the MPs announce that they will not vote, I will orderly warn them that they are bound by the letter of our Rules of Procedure. Although some have said it's funny calling the Rules of Procedure. I'll keep calling myself when I'm sitting here on the specifics of that Rules of Procedure. Please. That's right. Instead of voting, we go out, which is also the duty of a representative. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] The chairman is obliged to worry about the protection of rights and the fulfilment of the duties of MPs. Dutys. The protection of the rights shall fulfil the duties of the representatives. [[You can't hear the incursion from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28867	/Speaker not enabled/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28868	And duties. Don't, I don't forget. You know what, first of all, I didn't give you my word. Secondly, I'm the two elements in the dialectic unity here, and you're just the one element. And it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure because you're quoting the Rules of Procedure as it doesn't say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28869	We continue with the vote. Final proposal of the Income Tax Act, P.Z. 191. The debate on the text of the Law is over. We have a group of amendments, according to the table. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker, to be made known about certain amendments. 1. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28870	The amendment is not accepted because it is partially accepted in Amendment 2 of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28871	Is there an IDS club in there? There are no motions in the hall, so we vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 2. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28872	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28873	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 3rd Đurđa Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28874	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the Law, the General Tax Act, clearly defines how taxes are paid when it comes to a resident, a natural person who has a residence in the Republic of Croatia or a habitual residence or if it is a non-resident, i.e. a person who has no residence or a normal residence in the Republic of Croatia, who makes income abroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28875	Representatives Đurđe Adlesic is not in the hall, so we should vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. He didn't make it. 4. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28876	The amendment is not accepted for the reason why the adoption of the amendment would mean a reduction in income, both the state budget and the budget of the unit of local, regional and regional self-government. Therefore, we cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28877	There's no one at the IDS Club in the hall. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? No one. He didn't get any votes. 5th Representative Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28878	It is not accepted for the reason that the amendment is substantive, in fact, this supplement is resolved through the provisions of the Income Tax Regulation of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28879	There are no MPs in the hall, so I am voting on that amendment. Who's in? No one. Six. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28880	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28881	It becomes an integral part of the Law. Seven. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28882	The amendment is not accepted for reasons why we have explained that the application of current systems of one or more times, in part, did not produce expected results, or did not provide objectively and objectively maintain the level of determined income. And this final provision is also in line with the Final Proposal of the Tax on Profit and therefore we cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28883	Since there is no one in the Chamber from the IDS Club, I am voting on that amendment. Who's in? No one. 8th Amendment of Representatives Slavko Linić, Antuna Peruška, Zdenka Antešić, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman who are not normally present in the assembly. We will not vote on it, because it is already consumed by the rejection of amendments number 7 of the IDS Representatives Club. Nine. IDS agent club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28884	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the non-taxation of dividends and the share of profits based on the share in capital is the point of investment of domestic and foreign investors in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28885	No one has an IDS agent in the hall. I'm voting on that amendment. Who's in? No one. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28886	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28887	It becomes an integral part of the Law. 11. HSU counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28888	The amendment cannot be accepted on the grounds that the provision is the result of the provisions of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, which means that this provision is only in conformity with that Act. And since this Law has been adopted and adopted before, therefore, we cannot accept the provision of amendments. With that I have to point out that...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28889	Thank you very much, Minister. The amendment has been withdrawn. 12. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28890	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Article 36(1). The final proposal of the Income Tax Act determines the basic deduction of a thousand, a personal deduction of 1,000 kuna for each month of the tax period.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28891	Since there is no one in the assembly from the IDS Club, I am voting on that amendment. Who's in? No one. 13th Representatives Marija Lugarić and Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28892	The amendment is not accepted because the tax relief for the purchase or construction of a residential space is prescribed for taxpayers who for the first time resolve the housing issue without obtaining or buying or selling former properties, which was also the purpose of making it easier to resolve the housing issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28893	Since MP Marija Lugarić and Nenad Stazic are not in the hall, we must vote. Who's up for that amendment? Thank you, no one. 14th Representatives Slavko Linić, Anton Peruška, Zdenko Antesic, Gordana Sobol, Biserke Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28894	The amendment is not accepted because the procedure and the method of assessment is laid down in the General Tax Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28895	As representatives of Slavko Linić, Anton Peruško, Zdenko Antešić, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman are not in the assembly we should vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 15. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28896	The amendment is identical to Amendment 14. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28897	The same, we don't have to vote. Consumed. Previously on "Refused." 16. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28898	The amendment shall not be accepted for reasons of Article 44(1). The final proposal of the Income Tax Act is in line with the provisions of the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28899	Thank you. Since there's no one in the House of Representatives club, we should vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 17th Amendment of Representatives Slavko Linić, Anton Peruška, Zdenko Antesic, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28900	It's identical to Amendment 16 and it's not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28901	Since representatives of Slavko Linić, Antona Peruška, Zdenko Antesic, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman do not have a vote in the assembly. Who's up for that amendment? No one. 18th Representative Đurđe Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28902	The amendment is not accepted because the principle of income taxation does not suffer such exceptions and this would be a violation of the principle of equality and justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28903	Because Đurđe Adlesic does not have one. Please, who's in favour of that amendment? One vote. He didn't make it. 19. HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28904	Amendment 19 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28905	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 20th representative of the government of Jukic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28906	Since the amendment is identical to the HDZ Representatives Club, the amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28907	Amendment 20 has been accepted Amendment 21. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28908	The amendment is not accepted because it is Article 55. The final proposal of the Income Tax Act provides for the exemption and reduction of income tax for taxpayers carrying out their own activity in areas of special state care and mountainous areas. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal stipulates that a taxpayer starting to carry out an independent activity does not pay income tax advances until the first annual tax application is made.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28909	Since there's no one in the assembly of the IDS Representatives Club, we should vote. Who's up for that amendment? No one. The amendment didn't go through. The amendment also consumed 22 MPs Slavko Linić, Antona Peruška, Zdenka Antešić, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman who are not in the assembly. 23. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28910	The Legislative Committee is not accepted. Articles 20 and 20 of the Law on the Rights of Independent Artists and the Encouragement of Cultural and Art Creation remain in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28911	The president of the Legislative Committee is withdrawing the amendment. 23rd Retired. ... 24. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28912	The same argument as they remain in force in Articles 22, 20 and 22 shall cease to apply. The law on the rights of independent artists and encourage cultural and artistic creation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28913	I'm withdrawing this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28914	Amendment 24 withdrawn. Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28915	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28916	Amendment 25 accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that, with 76 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Income Tax Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28917	We move to; - Final proposal of the profit tax law, second reading, P.Z. No. 192; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the The Rules of Procedures held a hearing. About what you're looking for, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28918	I've been looking for the word club all along.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28919	On behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28920	I can go down here or I have to go down there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28921	Whatever you want here and there.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll have two minutes. What you just said was in the short version of yesterday at Parliament's presidency. When we all responded uniquely and asked you to take these unspeakable forms of threat to the form of threats to opposition clubs to go out particularly publicly. Because at that time and now I have seen it as a form of threat because opposition clubs are currently using a legal tool of boycotting part of the work in the Parliament that we have made public and that citizens understand well. The rights of parliamentary representatives to obtain material in an hour, to have agendas to respect the adopted agenda according to its order, to announce in the morning all the points that will be on the agenda, to announce the morning points. That the representatives of the motionors are on time in the Chamber, that they answer the questions of representation, that they make offensive remarks, are all therefore the rights of the consignor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which should be provided by the President or the Chair of the Assembly. Now I'm asking you when you made it possible for us when you provided us with the agenda, the clear agenda, respecting the points of the adopted agenda. When you responded to the provocations and tossings and protected the MPs without the horizons that were involved. The last time you said you hadn't heard the remark, which is even the microphone that caught the phonogram. And you didn't hear her at the table. And now you're sharing us, now I'm going to be gentle, warning about our obligations. And you said you wouldn't allow us to use an electoral voting system that's costing several million kunas in a few years, because it has a quote from you: part of the MPs who don't know how to register for votes. And that's why we raise our hands. And when we asked for an individual vote according to the Rules of Procedure, you didn't allow it. I kindly ask you at the moment when at this table you will ensure my administration of a parliamentary representative you have the right to call me to account. Don't do this for so long, because you've denied my rights first, and now you're calling me to account for it. You've replaced the order. Please don't do this anymore, because yesterday we asked you not to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28923	Mr. Representative, no one threatened you but quoted the terms of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. That's number one. The second in my address, I said that no one can force MPs to come to the Parliament, so that when they were chosen, they would not have to submit to the Parliament for four years. Is that what I said? And how I threatened you if I quote the provisions of this Rules of Procedure. Besides, you've listed your rights and not a single duty. I warned you not to you, but to the entire Assembly that, apart from the right parliamentary representatives, they have and they are in constant debt. I am merely determining that one part of the MPs is saying that they will not fulfil part of their duties in the Croatian Parliament. That's what I asked the President of the Parliament to examine it for. And I'll do it while I'm sitting at this table, when they announce from the MPs that they won't perform part of their duties, because I'm obliged to warn. Because here he says he cares about protecting his rights and fulfilling his duties as an agent. I'm not doing anything, but I'm just warning you of the rules of procedure we adopted together and which is still in force. The violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ms. Ljubica Lalic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so Article 213 is exactly what you hurt. And the 213th article says, the session's order is provided by the chairman. In order for the president to be able to provide the order at the session, he must be correct, he must be correct in dealing with MPs and, in particular, must not threaten them. You repeated your threat, and we understood that threat. And well says colleague Lesar before you allow us to consume the rights that are strengthened by our rules of procedure you have no right to threaten us. I therefore ask the President of the Parliament to give you a notice in accordance with Article 213.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28925	Mrs. Lalic, you have declared a warning about holding the rules of procedure as a threat. And I repeat again that I have said that no representative of anyone can ever be forced into the assembly and let alone participate in anything. I was warning you about the letter of the Rules of Procedure. And the fact that you find yourself at risk of not participating in part of the commitment is your problem, not your chairman. /Speakers speak out loud/
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28926	So, with the proposal, it's just a final proposal for a profit tax law. Minister Shucker, here you go. For the breach of the Rules of Procedure, this should get a warning, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Minister. Because you have no idea what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is and you deliberately provoke with a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28927	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What are the goals...... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28928	Goodbye. ... He's not gonna throw himself away with malpractice, offensive, and then at it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28929	Therefore, the objectives set out in the proposal for a tax on profits are the basic objective of removing... the lack of an existing way of taxing profits, which is essentially made up, as follows. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] The duality in determining the basic Institute of Taxation, i.e. tax bases, incomes and expenditures were prescribed by law, with parallel application of accounting regulations and international accounting standards, and this has been a major confusion for the past four years, so that many entrepreneurs who wanted to present their balance to the outside had to translate according to International Accounting Standards in order to be comparable. So, that determines income and expenditure differently. According to the proposal, the tax base is determined according to accounting rules and is an accounting category. The essential elements of the tax base depreciation, the value adjustments of long-term and short-term assets, the reservations were not prescribed in the law but in the implementing acts. Minor transfer provisions, transfer prices, transfer of profits to related companies. I must say, this is a provision that will make many lives miserable. Unfortunately, so far, the transfer of profits between related companies has not been regulated by any legal regulations and many have been used and it is very interesting that in one very important one, I can even say perhaps the most important provision of amendments to the Tax on Profits Act has not been noticed. But given the development of Croatia, as the market economy developed, so many owners have several companies that are connected. However, the legal regulations, the transfer of profits between these companies was never regulated and there was a space in which it could very much be manipulated and that is one of the specifics that I consider to be very important in this law and that it will determine many of the rules of the game that have so far been undefined. Insufficient provisions on non-business expenditures and private exemptions, therefore, in this law, non-business expenditures and private exemptions will be highly determined and this law has tried to clearly distinguish costs that are intended, for the purpose of this business, from those which are a matter of private exemption and use. To align the measure required by this period with the European Union guidelines on related societies, transfer prices, mergers and divisions, introduce transparency of business of economically significant natural persons, which is a practice of a larger number of European countries and which needs to increase tax revenues. Taxes in the area of the city of Vukovar and areas of special state care of the first group were exempt from paying taxes on profits. The greater possibility of relief from the backdrop of investment that can be realised already after 4 million kunas has so far been the price of 10 million kunas, the new benefits of paying advances, the taxpayer starting to carry out the activity does not pay advances until the first tax application, so practically 16 months should not be paid advances. What are the changes in the law in the second reading compared to the first reading? Therefore, the provision has changed where the definition of which natural persons should pay taxes in accordance with the Tax on Profits Act is defined. Therefore, this is foreseen in accordance with the proposal of the Chamber of crafts to be natural persons who, during the previous tax period, made total income of 2 million kunas or if, in the previous period, they made more income than around 400,000 kunas or if their long-term assets amounted to more than 2 million kunas and if, in the previous tax break, they employ more than 15 workers on average. These other are all nomotechnical remarks. Change. And what I'd like to say in particular, a one-time write-off. Based on a one-time write-off based on corporate tax returns in 2003, the base of the dopt tax was reduced by 4 billion and 200 million kuna. If 4.2 billion kunas were invested in equipment, in places to work, then probably shouldn't be spending all those stimulating means of employment. Unfortunately, one of the provisions that I say again had a good intention proved to be the instrument for ironing the tax balance. Any undertaking leading the right cost policy, which runs the correct accounting policy, which has a clear investment goal, will not be put into a situation that in the first year of buying equipment, buildings or something else is completely written off and thus reduces profits. He will do so in moments when the effect of this new equipment is the largest, the largest, the largest. Therefore, there remains the possibility of accelerated depreciation, however, I repeat, with the basis of a one-time write-off in 2003, the base of the tax on the age has decreased 4.2 billion kuna. If so much was shot in the economy, the unemployment rate would probably be far less. Therefore, the assessment of the tax administration, the assessment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is that it used the provision to iron the tax balance. So these are the most significant in addition to those famous article 31, that is the tax on deduction, these are the most significant provisions and amendments to this Tax on Profits Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28930	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Law, Finance and the State Budget want? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Honored representative Nevenka Majdenic, Klub of HDZ Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28931	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. One in a series of laws whose adoption will contribute to the implementation of tax reform is this Final Proposal for a Tax on Profit. At first, I must express the satisfaction of the adoption of a whole law, not of amendments and additions, which regulates issues which have been double or insufficiently precise in the current law, which are respected by the professional public and the taxpayers themselves, and which is in line with the tax legislation of the European Union countries. In addition to the fact that the law defines exactly who the taxpayer is, natural persons who are significant entrepreneurs are also designated as a new taxpayer. On the basis of a more significant taxpayer, the Law accurately states that these are natural persons who receive more than 2 million kunas or incomes greater than 400,000 kunas or who have a long-term asset greater than 2 million kunas or who in the calendar year employ more than 15 workers on average. This new category of taxpayers is bound by the law to establish the tax liability in an appropriate manner, and it is appropriate to refer to accounting regulations, double accounting. At the very least, it is not right for companies established with a share capital of 20 000 kuna to automatically keep books on the principle of double accounting and natural persons with million capital to run simple books on the principle of the cash register as small craftsmen. With this proposal for a law, legal persons registered exclusively for research development activities become taxpayers, but are exempt from paying taxes on profits. They won't pay the profit tax, but they'll file a tax return. In this way we will have records of the number of such persons, as well as the size of the funds that are tax-free. So, the monetary effects of tax exemption. The second essential element of this law is the tax base. The tax base definition accepted the observations of professional circles and taxpayers and established it as a result of the transaction shown in the profit and loss account and in the balance sheet. This established tax base is identical to the result of business and is adjusted as a starting size for tax-recognized expenditures and tax-relieving reliefs, resulting in reliable and comparable indicators. Amortisation, value harmonisation of long-term and short-term assets from rescheduling as well as rates, method and method of calculation are an important element of the tax base. It's prescribed by law, not by regulations anymore. For the purpose of establishing a tax base for internationally related companies, transfer prices are prescribed according to the principle of market comparable prices, with the application of the guidelines of the European Union. It is also arranged to establish a tax base in the absence of activity, change of legal status and merger, accession and division of taxpayers. Tax exemptions and exemptions proposed by this law have an incentive character for increased investment especially in areas of special state concern and the city of Vukovar. So, for example. entrepreneurs operating in these areas shall not pay a profit tax for ten years. In order to boost investment, a reduced rate of 10% was introduced on investments of at least 4 million kuna, provided that at least 10 workers were employed, which is an additional incentive for employment. Taxes registered to carry out shipping activities do not pay the profit tax resulting from international navigation. Tax after deduction on business services has been introduced with a view to reducing the transfer of profits to countries in an environment with which no double taxation avoidance contract has been signed. The proposed final text of the Tax on Profits Act is complete, enables comparison with data from business books and control of the accounting and calculation of tax effects and effective legal measures, so the Croatian Democratic Community's Club supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28932	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28933	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Like everything else in life, this law has clearly good and bad solutions. First of all, it is a good thing that the circle of taxpayers is clearly defined in terms of the seat is those mentioned earlier by the resident and the non-resident, but the point is how to observe this law, whether to view it as a politician or from the position of people who are in the profession, so those who had left it before us were giving us some advice. I read that craftsmen have objections to this law, more precisely people who probably work in craft chambers because they are afraid now for their status, because it is possible that a part of the craftsmen will be organised after the adoption of this law under the Law on Commercial Society. Finally, according to this law, entrepreneurs should be organised as companies if they earn revenue of more than 2 million kuna, if they earn income of more than 400 thousand kuna, if they own a long-term asset greater than 2 million kuna and clearly if they employ more than 15 workers. I guess, for example. That in my Buzet, no one will have to register under these conditions. Otherwise, this Buzet is not such an uninteresting city, if you keep in mind that the unemployment rate is 2 to 2.5%, that it imports labour not from Pazin but even from Copra, that there are more than 50% of the citizens who are in a working relationship which may be a unique case in Croatia and that finally this city per capita has exports of more than $9,000, and next year it is certainly $10,000 which is perhaps the most possible in Croatia if we exclude this Rovinj and TDR but I think Buzet is also on export in front of Rovinj. That's why when we talk about profit tax. Income tax I will solely position myself according to the interests of the people of my city and I think it is entirely legitimate. When I mentioned these limits, the income of 2 million kuna, the income of 400 thousand kuna, maybe those ratios here could be higher. As for employment, 15 people, etc. I'm sure it's fine. As we see companies here as a colleague mentioned earlier, they run double accounting, natural persons run simple accounting and operate on the principle of cash registers. However, now that the 20% profit tax rate is introduced, it would be interesting for all of us to go from crafts to businesses. So now a law is expected to finally help the craftsmen in this country, even though I'm going to talk about them a little bit more in the end. One of them, the law that can help craftsmen is this law on state-owned business premises, which the craftsmen will be able to clearly obtain with compensation, but this will again make a distinction between craftsmen I dare say the first row that has a space in state-owned and second-row craftsman who has a space owned by local self-government and most likely will not be able to obtain clearly with compensation. But I just want to say what I've always said about this speaker, that what's for a peasant country, that's for our craftsman's space. And finally our craftsmen haven't gotten anything from the state in the last 15 years, the workers have at least come to apartments, the directors of either the socialist or the former government's constituents have come to the factories, the peasants have come to the country, and the craftsmen from the Croatian transition at least to today have got nothing. So the essence of this bill, and that's what we've all been talking about at the Income Act, is giving up the profit tax when you pull a dividend out of the company, and there's at least two approaches for me. One is when companies own foreigners and others own domestics. But before I say a solution to how to solve this problem. Who owns an enormous profit in this country? Who owns or has or is available for unnatural gain? These are primarily monopolies whether it's about the Rovinj tobacco factory, whether it's about Croatian Telekom, whether it's about our cements, banks, Ina, etc. In my court, they should be paying profits on a monopoly that should be significantly higher than this 20%. If that were the case, and that tax, for example, could be about 40%, then let it be, let them make a profit, and let them work with it whatever it is they want. This is how it's really going to happen for gentlemen to get out of the Republic of Croatia, so whatever we think about it, no matter what they say. It may be on the other hand, but I just said maybe it will help some other companies to invest in Croatia, but so, unfortunately, it will not happen. While in Croatia, unfortunately, no serious job can be done, while in Croatia it should wait a year or two years for the most common book of land on which a hall should be built, while Croatia is constantly living in the expectation of some new choices, while in Croatia all those who work are experiencing only thieves, thieves, capital, not counting clearly monopolies, will not enter a team that is now being created and some anti-European mood where we constantly claim that someone wants to buy us, enslave us, etc. I personally believe that it simply does not stand, but surely all of this ultimately affects the position of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian economy. Under this law, small companies in principle support such an approach to extracting and obtaining, but as I said before I would not force them to spend for, I do not know the private needs of their owners, whether it be yachts or apartments, but to continue to invest in the development of their companies. In one word, to remain victims of their companies, because we will all agree, at this point in the Republic of Croatia, the hardest thing to do is to earn wages for themselves, or for our workers. This exporting of money from companies if it happens, and it will happen for sure, is bad, however, and Mr Shucker is right when he mentions the double taxation agreement and when he mentions Austria, or Germany where it is somewhat different regulated from other European countries and with which the trade of goods of the Republic of Croatia is the largest, i.e. where the largest investments from these countries are in or in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It's good now in this law that the cost of development is recognised at this hour or by these standards 100%, before it was 70%. It's a good thing the costs of training are now recognised 100%, before it was less. When it comes to amortization, everything is simplified, so it's, it's clear, that minimum write-off from a thousand kunas is now rising to two thousand kunas. But it's a bad thing about depreciation that no longer admits depreciation of spent resources, that's certainly not good. It's a good thing it's not going to pay now, so-called. advances the minister spoke of and it is particularly good that increased incentives for new investment by reducing the rate, let's say 10% to 0% of what this 20th article, article 26, item 1, 2, 3, 4, but now I'm not reading them all. Due to the height of the rate, rather than paying the dividend tax, a massive transition of craftsmen to the winners is possible, which perhaps ultimately shouldn't be bad. Article 24 speaks of free zones, there are also some benefits, but unfortunately to this day in the Republic of Croatia, and even on that basis, God does not know how much capital and should be asked why. I think that's exactly what I was talking about and the most important newspaper compared to the existing profit tax law. It means good, some bad solutions. It may also be mentioned here in Article 14 which reads, interest between related persons, that when determining interest income on loans in related persons, interest shall be calculated at least to the level of the interest rate which would be reached between unrelated persons at the time of granting the loan, and all knowing and keeping in mind that the related persons have received from one company the funds to another, and in fact to avoid tax obligations. So the law that comes, maybe comes at the right time, simplifies some solutions, but what's a fundamental question is whether such a law will attract foreign capital, we keep it at the IDS Club so soon it won't happen. And what I want to quote among other things is an article that I had a chance to read during today or yesterday, which is the position of our craftsmen. It says here that all hundreds of thousands of craftsmen in the country pay only 80 million kuna a year on income and cut taxes, craftsmen of 12,000 registered as free professions in the total amount of tax collected and taxes, taxes and income cuts are participating with only 1%. If, in turn, the total amount of tax paid with the total number of craftsmen and free professions is divided, 97 thousand are 418, according to the September 2004 pension insurance data, it turns out that each of them pays only 821 kuna a year and cuts to the income they earn, which, to be honest, almost looks amazing. The tax administration argues that craftsmen report a year 4.6 billion kuna of income, but when they take advantage of all deductions of costs on which they are legally entitled to the total amount of taxes paid on the declared income, something less than 2%, almost incredible. Furthermore, the craft chamber estimates that due to high traffic, craftsmen, merchants and builders of order will become taxpayers of profit they claim will not be able to pay because they have large costs etc. The craftsmen will be subject to stricter VAT regimes, payment by invoice, not realisation, and the basis for contributions will be increased, etc. It wouldn't be good if the craftsmen came into a worse position than the one they're in today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28934	Thank you. SDP club, respected representative Zeljka Antunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28935	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, will repeat some of the most frequently spoken findings of the general nature which, as just before for income tax, can also be applied in relation to this amendment, i.e. the Proposal for a Tax on Profit. First, I also really think, we at the SDP Club don't doubt it, that this level of change offered here by the new Profit Tax Act could be offered only by amendments and additions to the law. And unfortunately, the way you offer these changes by calling them tax reform, we cannot agree and we think that it is not about tax reform, that it is about some changes which unfortunately we assess positive neither in terms of increasing fiscal capacity nor in relation to increased opportunities or as a consequence of increasing development and investment opportunities in Croatia. It is not, it is not a good way to go because Croatia definitely has major problems defining and agreeing the right measures that will also increase fiscal capacity but also affect the increase in development effects and the increase in tax base or tax base. I am going to start with a finding at the beginning that this bill, but as a whole with the previous Income Taxation Bill, differs from the existing system from how the laws have so far regulated this area. There's one important difference. After 2000, either the changes made or the changes made and the changes accepted in the income tax and profit system had one rather important tax, or fiscal objective, to balance the tax burden on labour income and taxes on capital income, or other words of labour income and income income, or that of the famous dividend income. With these proposed changes you do not surprise me, but definitely and drastically clearly point to the difference between today's Croatian policy, tax policy compared to the one advocated by the previous government. You advocate a higher burden on taxation, a higher burden on labour taxation, means people who live off their work, who do not have money to invest capital in dividends, in shares in anything else, in what we call in Croatia clearly and understandablely, the worker. And you relieve these proposed changes of those who earn their high profits from capital. From the money they acquired in one way or another in the previous period. Some of them quickly acquired it, so they hardly acquired it from honest work. And now let me take a brief look at a few just things that are actually crucial to these proposed changes. First, I want to refer to the corporate tax provision. There's a lot of talk about it, and we can hardly accept this provision by which it's bound, or through the law, orders certain entrepreneurs, you tell significant entrepreneurs that they have to go into the taxation system and not the way it has been, if they want to. It is argued that the mandatory transition from the income tax system to the profit tax system is prescribed because craftsmen and free professions have become important by meeting one of the criteria. No other reason is justified. If the size criterion should be a reason for prescribing the transition from the income tax system, then they should be prescribed at a higher level, at a higher level and than this level that you have proposed in the final proposal. When it comes to the reality of the tax base, then in time continuity, it will be confirmed to you by every tax expert in Croatia, a more realistic basis may consider income established on the principle of the cash register, from the profit established on the principle of occurrence of events. It's a elemental fact. I'll also talk about accounting standards. I'm talking about income and profit now. I'm talking about a tax base. But what is least justified is that these provisions force craftsmen and free professions, they are ordered, from the income tax system which is taxed at 15, 25, 30 and so far 45% must be converted to a profit tax system at which the tax rate is 20%. In normal tax systems and this is what is normal today, tax burdens in the income tax system and in the profit tax system should be one, with a 20% profit tax rate, which you do not change according to more. And with the elimination of income tax on dividends and share in profit, there is institutionalised inequality in income taxation. One of the consequences of this order will certainly be an increase in the cost of business, as you say significant entrepreneurs, and we still think small entrepreneurs, because any of these criteria must except, when any of these criteria are met, often the road is not the relevant criteria so that immediately entrepreneurs can be classified as large or significant as you say it. The second thing I want to look at is the tax base issue. Now I'm going to say something about accounting standards, international accounting standards. In this bill of law, you define the tax base as accounting size. You ask that anyone who determines the tax base be he large or small, or all those who are significant, and to the greatest, use international accounting standards. They will not be used only by those who determine the tax base, but also by all those who will oversee, control the billing and tax collection. The work of leveling most of you around here probably doesn't know what these international accounting standards are. This is about 2.5 thousand pages of accounting regulations one 3 kilos of heavy, which are complemented and changed each year. They are not called upon by the international community to establish tax bases and define tax obligations in certain countries. The accounting standards are used to determine the business outcome for those entrepreneurs whose shares are traded on the stock market. Each country, and so far it has been Croatia, if it wants a simple calculation of the determination and not only of the determination, but also of the supervision and collection of taxes on such a tax base, will prescribe a tax base as tax size. Because these two facts have no direct connection. The only benefit of this kind of tax base regulation will have a whole series of consultants and consultants who will trust me, and I've been doing this job on it, making a very good living. Each year, every taxpayer, every tax controller will have to buy new 2.5 thousand pages of revised accounting standards on which some will make a very good profit. And believe me, it has nothing to do with the simple establishment of a tax base, that it has nothing to do with double accounting that's supposed to cause this. It's more like someone's got a really good lobby at the Ministry of Finance, so the lobbying will do well for those of you who do this job. The third aspect of which I want something, or the third thing I want to say is the issue of depreciation, that's a lot of talk today, and the minister talked about it in the introduction. This proposal of the Profit Tax Act abolishes the possibility of a one-time depreciation calculation in the first year. We're already prescribing the annual rate of amortisation. Such regulated rates reduce the possibility for the business sector, entrepreneurs to manage their assets, their loans and their cash optimally in accordance with their budgets. In this way, the development of the business sector is slowed down, and this slows down ultimately the increase in the tax base and the possibility of higher tax revenues coming from the same tax rate in the future. And that I'm sure is the Ministry of Finance's goal or should be. Or to achieve the same tax revenue even at less tax rates, which would also produce an additional accelerant effect in the economy. For the sake of correctness, since only the Minister of Finance sits here, I must say that such analyses and proposals should not be the subject of the financial sector of the state, but of the economic, therefore not the Ministry of Finance, but of the Ministry of Economy, which is responsible for the economy or economic policy. And I'm a little surprised that they didn't state their position about it and warned that the question of the possibility of a first year's reckoning is no harm at all, but that it is just opening up that space that the entrepreneur is optimally managing his business. Furthermore, I would also like to look back at the elimination of profit tax after deduction on dividends and share in profits. The introduction of income tax occurred the moment the profit tax was reduced from 35% to 20%. The profit tax rate per deduction was introduced precisely because of this reduction in the tax rate in order to amortise fiscal or tax loss due to such a huge reduction and a 15% rate was established, the deduction rate in the existing law is 15%. The same as the income tax rate on dividends and the share in profits that will also be abolished. By abolishing profit tax after deduction at a profit tax rate unchanged means 20% of income is lost from taxes in Croatia. It's the thesis, but it's also the fact. I agree with the minister that some of our colleagues in these discussions have also ignored the effect arising from the double tax avoidance treaty. I agree that at a political level, we have not done such precise analyses that we can see how much measure is being taken and how much is leaving, but I do not agree that in the Ministry of Finance, without clear analyses of the effect of introducing or abolishing a tax, you make such proposals. However, there are in this country if we do not already exist in politics and do not exist in the Ministry of Finance of a professional institution and professional people dealing with these analyses, who take data and analyze them, who have determined exactly how many shares in profits are made by non-residents from countries with which we do not have a double taxation contract and those with which we have a double taxation contract. Let me not bother you with these professionally complicated things I'll read you just a closing sentence from one such analysis. Significantly high amount of unpaid profits at the end of 2002 in foreign persons, residents of countries with which the Republic of Croatia does not have in the application of double taxation contracts suggest that in 2004 and in the following years, it could be expected to increase income from profit tax after deduction, on the basis of dividend payments and interest in profits to these foreign legal persons. This proposed law is as proposed as proposed by Zmago Jelincic as the difference in the tax burden of the Slovenian investor in Croatia and Croatia in Slovenia will be drastic, certainly at the expense of the Croatian investor, at the expense of the Croatian taxpayer's profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28936	Thank you very much. Club of HNS-PGS representatives, respected representative Radimir Cacic. He's gone. The club loses its word. And final review by Finance Minister Ivan Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I can say that this was the speech of those who have been holding back for four years from making Croatian accounting standards and those who have not applied international accounting standards in Croatia for four years. Those who know what international accounting standards are know that they apply only somewhere in Croatia to 3% of companies and Croatian accounting standards are very important for the business of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. However, some say that international accounting standards also refer to small entrepreneurs but that is just a problem not knowing the problem. The other thing, to say that the proposal for this was made by the ministry without clear analyses, I think at the very least it was a demeaning of all those university professors and all those people who worked in the task force and there were 50 of them. To say that such a bill is given to both the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament without analysis, I say it is the speech of those who have been struggling for four years to avoid introducing Croatian accounting standards in Croatia. Simply, the accounting of the left-hand side, it could have been in socialism in the 1960s, but even in socialism in the 1980s when they were SOUR's, such simple accounting could not have been. However, ask taxpayers who have their large in Croatia and when they need to appear somewhere outside at any competition or anything that their balance has to be implemented in accordance with international accounting standards. So if Croatia wants to go there. The second thing, no one said that the basis for taxation is the result of international accounting standards, but the accounting category that should ultimately be. But I'm saying, in the end, I'm saying that Zmago Jelincic is going to clap on this law, and I think some two years ago, they gave a lot of applause to some paraphrases.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28938	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Zeljka Antunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28939	The minister argued that the mention of accounting standards is actually the speech of those who advocate the introduction of international accounting standards in Croatia. This quote is completely incorrect because I do not know anyone in Croatia that advocates neither exists nor anyone is in favour of not being introduced. Accounting standards have long, long been introduced into Croatia and are applied to the accounting determination of the results of the business. What I'm talking about is that it has nothing to do with it and it has nothing to do with establishing a tax base. And no one has anything against the introduction of accounting standards. On the contrary, I say a long time ago, there was a time behind us when these standards were introduced and became mandatory in accounting regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28940	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Final proposal of the Law on profit tax, second reading, P.Z. 192 The debate on the text of the law is over. We have a table of amendments. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker, please be clear. 1st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28942	1st Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club The Government does not accept for the simple reason that we think it is enough that... those entrepreneurs who fulfil that one condition must keep books under accounting law. [[The bell doesn't make sense.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28943	Since there is no one in the assembly I am voting on this amendment from the IDS Club of Representatives. Who's in? No one. The amendment didn't go through. The amendment of MPs Slavko Linic, Antuna Peruška, Zdenka Antešić, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman, which are also not present in the assembly, was also consummated. 3. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28944	The government does not accept the amendment for the reasons that rewards to students and scientists during practical work and teaching up to the prescribed amount according to the rules on taxation of income tax are not taxable, and above the prescribed amount are taxable. In both cases, therefore, it is tax-recognition expenditure, which means that they are not subject to profit tax up to or above the prescribed amount. So this category is regulated by the Income Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28945	Thank you. Since there is no one in the IDS Club's assembly, we should also vote on this amendment. Who's in? No one. The amendment didn't go through. 4th Amendment rejected, 4th Amendment is identical to the amendment of the 3rd Representatives Slavko Linić, Antona Peruška, Zdenka Antešić, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman, who are not present in the Chamber, is consummated by the rejected amendment 3. We will not vote on it. 5th Amendment of the IDS Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28946	The government does not accept this amendment for the reasons that dividends and shares in the profit of other companies after tax are in tax base and in order not to be double taxed are excluded from the tax base and based on the provisions of Article 6(1) of this Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28947	Since there's no one in the assembly to vote from the IDS Club. Who's up for that amendment? No one. Six. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28948	The amendment by the Government does not accept for reasons that in a transparent manner the provision is regulated so as to cover all temporary differences and not only part of the temporary differences that arise in taxation as regards the deduction of the tax from the accounting balance. What? It says, "I'm sorry." "I'm sorry." "I'm sorry."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28949	So Amendment Six is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28950	Yeah. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28951	It becomes an integral part of the law. Seven. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28952	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28953	It becomes an integral part of the law. 8. IDS representative club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28954	The 8th amendment is not accepted because investment incentives are also governed by the Investment Encouragement Act, which regulates the conditions and means of obtaining the status of investment promoters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28955	Since there is no one from the IDS Representatives Club in the assembly, I am voting on that amendment. No one voted for him. The 9th Amendment of Representatives Slavko Linic, Anton Peruška, Zdenko Antesic, Gordana Sobol and Biserka Perman who are not in the assembly was consummated with the previous rejected amendment and is not voted on. Ten. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28956	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28957	It becomes an integral part of the law. 11. the same Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28958	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28959	It becomes an integral part of the law. 12. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28960	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28961	It becomes an integral part of the law. 13th of the same board.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28962	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28963	It becomes an integral part of the law. 14. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28964	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28965	It becomes an integral part of the law. 15. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28966	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28967	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that, with 75 votes for and 3 abstentions, the proposed Law was adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we've finished voting with this vote. The session continues on Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal for a Law on Public Roads if there are procedural business assumptions, then the Hunting Act, the Maritime Code, mandatory relations and the State Service. Thank you very much. - Final proposal of the Financial Police Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 217 The Proposer is Government. When establishing the agenda, we accepted the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of this law. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Law, Finance and the State Budget. I'd like the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28969	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know that this item on the agenda will cause a number of political qualifications and what I would like to say at the beginning that this Bill on Financial Police and this newly proposed financial police have nothing to do with this institution that was abolished two years ago. However, what has shown, unfortunately, that the supervision, the collection of the budget revenues in Croatia by the existing system so that I do not know how we are revising tax control in the tax administration is not effective and it is not good, for the simple reason that the setting of tax supervision on the area offices without their constant presence in the tax administration facilities because of the fact that in the last year, the financial police have established 2.5 billion commitments in the past year. So, what the taxpayers didn't charge. The proposal is to establish financial police and the basic reasons for the establishment of the Financial Police are that the Financial Police should be as a smaller and operational body, and its basic tasks are exclusively supervisory and would ensure an effective system of supervision and collection of budgetary revenues. A tighter control system would achieve better financial discipline and ensure the stability of the tax system. A particularly significant task of the Financial Police is to curb the grey economy and prevent tax evasion or tax ejaculation. Secondly, the financial police will monitor the production, regularity and accounting and the timely payment of the budget taxpayers of special taxes permanently, so on a continuous basis throughout the taxation period. The establishment of the Financial Police will improve the collection of budgetary revenues with a reduction of illegal production and trade and jobs, and the achievement of full objectivity through the application of applicable rules. When it comes to specific regulations which are calculated on the quantity of products, it is important to have a rapid, rapid operation of the supervisory authority. I have to say here, unfortunately, there has been no supervisory body that's controlled the excise duty since the moment the Financial Police were suspended. And right in the case of excise duty, it's a very important spot and current control. And then the only effect of surveillance can be real and can be good. But I tell you who it was in the interest of, why in the last three years so little attention has been paid to controlling the charge of excise oil derivatives and tobacco is the second pair of shoes. Avoidance and evasion of taxes, work without authorisation is almost always monitored by avoiding payment of contributions to compulsory insurance. In addition to the measure to reduce tax ejaculation, more effective measures are being taken to combat the EVA. Concession fees as a contractual commitment to the budget in the current system of regularity and payment of public contributions shall not be subject to supervision or supervision of the regularity, regularity of implementation of the budgetary. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, at this point in the Republic of Croatia, there are no concession bonds in one place. No one's been monitoring or controlling those massive quarryes with the complete shaking of highways. Who knows how much of the material was taken back was installed in the highways and charged. So the concession fee at this point almost nobody controls. And this will be the same as one of the sources of revenue and significant sources of revenue from the state budget because only a few actions by the State Inspectorate in the past 7, 8 months have established over 300 million kuna commitments only on the basis of some 15 or 16 quarryes. So that we have more control of mining, and especially given the amount of drinking water that the Republic of Croatia currently has at its disposal on the number of new sources and drinking water producers that are being sold, I think that control over this part is very important and it is very important as a source of income in the future budget. So the establishment of the Financial Police and the proposed law is something quite different from that of the financial police that was in the past. Five outposts are proposed and we say the main intention is to prevent tax ejaculation, better charge and control of budget revenues.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28970	Thank you. Legislative committees, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Yeah? The President, the Honorable Representative of the Shima Rifle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28971	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, given the new and important subject, I would like to repeat once again the position of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth Rules of Procedure as a parent body, the Committee met and considered this proposal and reached the following conclusion: Introductory representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the establishment of the financial police would improve the payment of budgetary revenues with a reduction of illegal production and trade. The Committee unanimously supported the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to comply with Article 195. Rules of Procedure, 159. Rules of Procedure... The Croatian Parliament, the proposed law, will adopt by emergency procedure, since the start of the work of the financial police will contribute to increasing efficiency in detecting tax evasion and avoidance, contributions, excise duties, concession fees, strengthening the financial discipline of taxpayers, and thus more fully achieving the revenues of the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There was an opinion that was not particularly expressed as an opinion, but we did present it and it said that the Committee also held an opinion that the provision of Article 25 would be made. The final proposal for the law should be formulated differently with regard to the award of authorised financial police officers for the net average results in the work. However, the opinion prevailed that the provision in question of Article 25 should be made possible in a proposed way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia lays down criteria and the maximum possible amount of the add-on for the net average results in the work of authorised financial police officers, since this is also a practice in other countries. Following the debate, the Committee unanimously proposed to the Parliament the adoption of the Financial Police Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28972	I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Velimir Plesa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28973	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. At first, let me show you the position of the HDZ Club to support the adoption of the Financial Police Act. In 2001, when the Law on the Elimination of Financial Police was passed, it was a speech by the then government that the abolition of the financial police would be able to achieve more effective inspection supervision from the Ministry of Finance's work, which is incorrect because inspection supervision is not the basic task of the financial police. Then, by abolishing the financial police, it will rationalise doing business in the authorities of the state administration or remove overlapping responsibility between the financial police and the tax administration in full. However, it was clear that the occasion created a precedent for the unprofessional stychical and arbitrary abolition of the state body by the will of individuals in the executive power by using force and political power rather than the argument of the profession. It was particularly impressive, under quotes, that the government had explained that as a reason for abolishing the financial police with the rationalisation of jobs, it must also take into account the recommendations made by international institutions, which is the least said oddly, since such a body is also known to other countries. Therefore, there were no legitimate grounds for abolishing the financial police as a state service which controlled the legality, regularity and timelyity of the accounts and payments of state revenues because the data speak in favour of its existence or operation. And these data through the figures were as follows: in 1998, the financial police carried out 6086 controls, filed 3595 criminal charges, 359 for economic crime and 187 criminal charges. In 1999, there were 5185 controls, 3973 criminal charges, 570 for economic crime, 248 criminal charges. In 2000 5200 controls were carried out. 3428 infringements, 644 applications for business access, and 333 criminal charges were filed. In its total existence of 9 years, the financial police carried out 767 checks, and established 8.62 million public revenues, filed 35799 infringements, 3177 applications for economic access, 1668 criminal charges and shut down 169 facilities for illegal business. But the question of the process of applying by the attorney's office is the question that at that time did not meet the criteria of the modern overall work carried out by the financial police. This was particularly present in cases where large controls and irregularities in business were identified, such as Glumina Banka, Dubrovska Banka, Gucičev and Kutla's companies, post-mortem aids and the like. And when a large number of reports were filed by the financial police which the attorney's office did not proceed. Unresistant was, in all respects, the effectiveness of the financial police regardless of all the fences that appeared in its work. And this was the case at the time of her termination, and this is the case today during her re-organization. And measured by the effects on the collection of income from the state budget, but I also don't forget here the psychological effects of its existence on taxpayers. This law that we're passing today is a brand-new law on financial police, and it represents an necessity that is inevitable. Indemnity is partly clearly seen in a prominent need for prevention in the fight against corruption. Because the experiences of developed countries speak and suggest that corruption is growing in proportion to the concentration of authority in the state administration. And if you look at everything that's happened by abolishing the financial police, the question is, is it not that the concentration of power in part of the tax administration, and it's about big revenues and the most sensitive part of citizens' obligations, i.e. Paying taxes. There is also a question whether it has not become a place for corruption and bribery by abolishing the financial police. Because this is how the concentration of power in the ministry, or the tax administration, was extremely high. That's why Croatia probably fell to 67 from 56 places on the corruption scale. The reduced intensity of charging the state budget is unnecessary to speak of. In short, as in 2001, the Croatian Democratic Union was against more than a recognizable political decision on the abolition, which was taken by the parliament on the basis of the decision of the unknown power centre. So today HDZ is the basis of the arguments I tried to state by showing unnecessary reasons for the abolition and damage that this abolition has produced for the adoption of the law on financial police. For her return. Or even better told by her returning to the life of the state. Not as one repressive body, but as one inevitability to monitor the regularity and regularity of the accounting and timely payment of the budget taxpayers of the special tax on a permanent basis, therefore continuously throughout the taxation period. According to this bill, it is quite obvious that the financial police will be different from that of the former authorities who have been unnecessarily abolished. But different and not just by that. What I not only want to believe but also completely certain of knowing the moral habitat of the current finance minister, in any case, is that I sincerely hope that the financial police will no longer have unprofessional or under-experienced people to exercise all the competencies that the financial police will have, or what is worse, those corrupt, who do not care to carry out their duties under her jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28974	Thank you. Honored representative Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28975	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, for your cooperation, colleagues and colleagues. Now here's the late night as it is similar to this subject we discuss. So in this one obscenity time, then it certainly doesn't promise the bright effects of this institute that the government was going to install. The SDP club strongly opposes the adoption of this law, and the installation of the financial police, firstly why, and I will respond immediately. In fact, during the coalition government when a general tax law was passed, its basic message was the principle that citizens do not experience a country that they want to peel after they have been peeled, which they want to use, but on the other hand also that the state in its citizens sees those who want to cheat and steal it. Therefore, it was essential to install a basic principle of trust which is fundamental in these matters so that the tax ejaculation would be as low as possible and that the tax charge would be as high as possible. DRugo, we believe, besides the tax administration, next to the customs administration and that the right to enforce tax laws is the best way to get their knowledge done by tax officials. Which is why it's like that. Because it is a simple fact that taxpayers are just constantly almost followed by a certain taxpayer as a family doctor. Therefore, he is the one who is authorized, and he knows his business best, but not all of it, there are, of course, tax inspectors who go athok according to individual actions or regularly, depending on the need. Specific situations and requirements which require the right to record the reaction of tax inspectors to one taxpayer. So what we should do at this given moment is just strengthen the tax administration, strengthen that tax service to become even more motivated and therefore more responsible. But what we're doing here right now, we're creating a parallel system, which in itself is very dangerous, and that none of the wealthier countries can afford it. We see that the financial police and only from some traditional things have only Italy has no country in the European Union. So this repressive apartment we're trying to introduce isn't something that can encourage citizens or taxpayers. There are huge funds that, in these times and limited capital investment, and even the number of employees especially in the state administration, and you see here, we introduce at least 260 employees and tenants for whom the applicant predicts that just for their gross salaries and the purchase of labour funds, 38 million kuna will be needed. Isn't it better and where other buildings are, where the business premises are for that service that needs to be provided? Isn't it more opportunistic, more meaningful than that, to ensure the work of customs, the tax administration of USKOK, which this year provides less resources in the budget? So, to those existing institutions that we can't boast about exactly their work, and for what. Because they don't have them. They're neither teamed up enough, nor motivated, and constantly crying out for certain means. And it seems really more meaningful to make better these planned funds, even much less, the effects would be better if we were in the existence of the institutions that we have and are responsible for, how they work, because it is not easy to create one institution, or it takes a lot of time for it to live up to and produce fruits, or to justify the meaning for which it is established. So, we believe in the SDP Club that the citizen should be stimulated and that all those measures that were implemented during the coalition government and in the fight against the gray economy, and on his own tax reliefs that then lead to the end line and to the record. The 48,000 tax reliefs are now down to 12,000 kuna a year. So, not to say this by heart are also saying that the Institute of Public Finance's research that these measures and the fight against the gray economy and the fight against the tax invasion have begun to produce results. And then why all of a sudden the financial police? It is not good for one country to intend to buy its budget with fines, fines, repression, police of every kind, because the state that does this is certainly clearly showing that there is no trust in its citizens in taxpayers, but in the end it is a state which is no longer certain of itself. We saw a very negative police experience, a financial police that was installed during the original HDZ government that it was indeed in practice countless examples, served exclusively for political reckoning. Let's just remember in 1999 before the start of the election for 2000 we can have a record of who she visited and visited by the financial police. They're often found on then hostile election lists. And that was an irrefutable fact. The fact is that the financial police visited persons, i.e. companies and companies for years, and that they had not been out of them for years and that such companies had been ruined because no one wanted to deal with such suspicious companies, companies that, there, where the financial police settled. It was, that's what the financial police told us, that the college discussed where they were sent to determine irregularities, that no irregularities were found, that they were sent several times, if possible, if found. Those are irrefutable facts. Therefore, to set up such financial police alongside tax authorities where they were often in the same task or very similar situation in the same company, in the same society. I mean, I'm saying it's completely, completely missed, missed thinking and that there can't be good intentions in any way. Why don't I repeat again, not strengthen the tax administration? This still testifies to intolerance to others and to great tolerance to yourself. The state wants to train great strictness, however, and at this point it is late with the payouts of many donations, it is late with payments and also with the scholarship of children of Croatian military disabled people, you had the opportunity to hear it via television two, three days ago. He's late for payments where companies deal with the state. Therefore, indifference is born again, the state is again becoming oblivious to the failure of its own obligations, and it is asking its citizens for a great discipline from its taxpayers. I think it's a dangerous trend towards strengthening the police state, and in no case does it serve the country that has the ambition to become democratic, at least on that declarative plan to a greater extent. And we here rightly have to wonder if after this financial police department we're going to get soon for all those mistakes, the construction police, will we get the tourist police soon, will we get the police for the freaks, and then, by any chance, if they meet the demands to ban abortion and the gynological police? These are questions that raise the basic question where Croatia is going and does Croatia develop its democracy? We have seen the most powerful example of what happens to a woman named Mrs. Crnashi who dared to resist what she previously did to the entire government and painted a big nose for them, so I will look back and look back at what she has dared to do to the nose of a minister, no police, no inspections that have not been followed. And if it had already been installed and financially beyond any doubt, it would have come here. We are not advocacy here and condemn each and every one of us, but the minister here has said that in this rival case it was a serious crime for which in the Penal Code, by the way, you should be told to prevent the most minor sentence from being suspended until one year. And even for insults and slanders, 3 or 5 years are. For this crime she allegedly would have, which she suspects would have committed. But let's let it go to the legal authorities. But anyone who dares to criticise the government knows, make sure he's attacked first and foremost by the financial police. So, I suggest, I don't mind strengthening discipline, it's necessary for all of us, but the authority that has made an effort to do this towards its citizens and that has such ambition seems to me that, first of all, it should discipline itself, so above all, to fulfil the obligations it has towards its own citizens, to give them the principal, these are side-to-head taxes for what they just earned in doing business with the state or obligations, be collective agreements and so on, but in any case, you shouldn't remove the thorn and the speck from the citizen's eye before they take the balvana out of their own eye. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28976	No replicas to the club, but I have an observation. The representative spoke of the enemy's electoral lists. Inappropriately, since there is no enemy electoral list for representatives in the Croatian Parliament, they only have rivals. Well, your election list, too, is what we at HDZ, if I may say so, considered rival rather than hostile. If, but I attribute it to your proverbial ferocity But you do, you have 11 corrections of incorrect allegations. [[/Intruder: It's a rhetoric from communist times.]] I don't know any replicas. He doesn't have any replicas because he can't be in the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, they'd probably be. The first is Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28977	Thank you. In fact, this is a lot of inaccuracies and incorrect allegations, but since there's been a lot of those who want to correct the incorrect quote, I'm only going to concentrate on the part that's talking about abolishing. So Mrs. Anticevic, the financial police were one of the few institutions established by the Croatian Democratic Community when it was in power, when you came to power, you gave it the task, then I was mayor and the financial officers came in after only three days in control of my unit of local self-government, and so they were directed to everyone in the government in the local self-government remained HDZ and when she failed to perform the task ordered by the party then you decided to unform it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28978	Thank you very much. It can be considered a correction, but it doesn't have to be considered. Here you go, Mr. Vlado Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28979	Two things in a series Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said, which I would like to correct. The first is the claim that the Financial Police were used exclusively for political accounting. It's simply a lie, but it's hard to explain it now in a short time, but I think that's something to say. And secondly, if the people on the enemy lists were subject to the processing of the Financial Police, they simply cannot stand, and practice and analysis would certainly indicate something else entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28980	Thank you. Mr. Ivan Jarnjak, correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28981	Dear Mr. President, it has been said that only in Croatia are the repressive measures that raise funds to fill the budget. Madam MPs, you have studied law and you know that no country in the world collects charity and thus fills the budgets but exclusively through institutions, and it is precisely repressive to collect, in a very repressive way. And secondly, it is not true that this government will form a gynecological police force. Heaven.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28982	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28983	So the representative, our colleague, injured Article 209, 214 in relation to Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because I was saying that the Financial Police, only exists in Italy, is in no European Union country, and I did not say that there is no such kind of repression, but only on the issue of the Financial Police, which exists only in Italy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28984	Thank you very much. I hope you heard it that way in that box, then don't say it like that again, will you? Fourth Amendment, Mr. Velimir Pleša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28985	Well, in a series of inaccuracy, I will only correct the one where Mrs. Anticevic said, who was attacked by the Financial Police, by those who were on the enemy lists. Inaccurately, with an argument from Međimurje and Međimurje County which is now not coming in here and not wasting time, your neighbor can confirm to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28986	Thank you very much. The neighbor is not required to provide further explanations. Correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Mr Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28987	A respected MP said the adoption of this law is a trend in strengthening the police state and repression. That's not true. You colleagues know very well what law literature implies under the police state. It's a concept that refers to single-party systems, totalitarian systems, systems in which there is no pluralism or democracy. So you've tied this notion of a police state to the insistence of a party or party that proposes this state-of-the-art law in the finances of a state, and it's not true that it's not true that only in one state that the Financial Police as an institution is set up within the Ministry of Finance. So, absolutely incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28988	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Jure Bitunac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Anticevic said the state is becoming inequitable. This is absolutely not true and I do not know where you are entitled to speak like that when, according to the latest data, either from the Tax Administration, either from the FINA or the Chamber of Commerce in this year is the smallest, but back 7-8 years, the smallest number of non-equity companies, non-proliferation companies, and this would not be possible if the State did not regularly carry out its obligations because we know that the State's main generator was liquidity, whether insolvency, or insolvency or insolvency of companies, because it is de facto the largest investor and it executes, if it regularly fulfils its obligations then that liquidity, it is never indivisible. So you speak absolutely incorrectly. One other correction to an incorrect quote, it's about... Night. [[You don't understand.]] I think it's a Christmas Eve and she's a little nostalgic, even romantic. I was out a little while ago...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28990	Thank you very much. We're done. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mrs. Maria Byte.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since my colleagues and colleagues from my club were correcting incorrect allegations and correcting most of them, I'm giving up, just telling a fellow respected colleague that there are no political enemies for us at the HDZ Club, but perhaps political inexperience or rivals in the elections, but not the enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28992	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28993	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. It would take me 10 minutes to correct Mrs. Collar's incorrect allegations. Ten minutes, exactly. From the first to the last sentence she said inaccuracies such as, here colleagues have repeated several times, but I will repeat something I thought I would never hear in the Croatian Parliament, which is that this law is the law for the Croatian state to introduce a police state. The police state stopped thanking God for this area in 1990, and we know exactly what it was like, so I assume that through the stories of your elders you know what it was like to be a police state. And in the end, I thought a colleague couldn't shut down and I wanted to call the DVD Parliament, but thank God she went out on her own.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28994	Madam MPs, it is not appropriate to say that it can be extinguished or non-exhausted and because you have incorrectly said this about your colleague in the Assembly I give you a warning. Shutting down and shutting down is not a word in this House. Mr. Representative Stjepan Mesic, do not use these words. Everyone will get a warning who talks like that. Mr. Stjepan, I'm sorry, Babic. This is where the subconscious talked, I apologize to everyone. Stjepan Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28995	Okay, I didn't hear this, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28996	...calm down the legal profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28997	You got it. I'd like to correct my colleague, Anticevic, who said that Mrs. Montenegro was sent an inspection because she drew a long nose. It's not because the lady broke the Health Protection Act and the Drug Act, where exactly what drugstores are being issued. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription. She knew that, she'd been breaking it since May this year, and then when the inspection came, so the state's inspection banned her from entering. So it is an unremembered example in Croatia that the state inspection is forbidden to enter. And I'm surprised that the former justice minister supports people and encourages them to break the law. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28998	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u28999	It would be a lot easier for me to correct the exact quote, but there's no such thing as an institute. A colleague in the heat of her attacks and expressions of hostility towards everything that makes the symbols of this government look up so she doesn't know what language she's speaking, so I'm going to correct the language she spoke, because it's not true Croatian to say "tax" but to say "tax," and "can we," she only knows what it means, she probably wanted us to. So we need to decide which language he will speak in the future because it is very important in this House. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29000	Thank you very much. In the Assembly is spoken in Croatian, I have not noticed anyone else speaking. ... Another correction to an incorrect quote, so we're done, be patient. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] There's a word Mrs. Christmas School.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29001	Here's to correct the incorrect allegations of Agent Anticevic. She said the Financial Police served the Croatian Democratic Community for political purposes only. I'm sure that's not true for you. It is certainly the Financial Police when you abolished it has favored many of your ministers and members of their family. If you want facts, I'll back up the fact, and the fact is, in particular, for the minister of the Church and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29002	Thank you very much. Let's not start about this now, about this... Here's another Mr. Florian Boras who, no, no, Mr. Florian Boras claims that I didn't see him, I was probably looking like this, so I'm not right, you know. ... Go ahead, they won't let us. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Twelveth Jubilee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29003	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will correct Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's allegations by trying not to get a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29004	If he deserves it, he doesn't die.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29005	So let me put it this way. No matter what some individuals or groups have been told falsely, I will still correct a false assumption. Namely,... /The speaker turned off and subsequently turned on./...so the pharmacy resident Mrs. Crnashi or as her name is not examined because of the long nose but because of the long fingers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29006	We can't argue because no one's found it yet. And that's what the judicial authorities and the police authorities need, but there's nothing to be done by the police unless it's decided. ... So let's not in advance declare it something long-fingered or anything like that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not exactly a warning, but it's on the border. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29007	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. When the Financial Police have already abolished, the question is really whether we need to reintroduce it now, so it's a first, so it's certainly not, first, it's a fundamental question with what we had in the first place, when we had it. Whether it was independent, whether it was the professional Financial Police, or as Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic would say, whether it was the party police. If it is said that in this explanation I quote: "she will meet the expectations of collecting special taxes" then it seems here in this legal text to mean cigarettes, coffee, alcohol, oil. It is true, for example, that strange things happen in Croatia; it is not controversial. For example, 100 million liters of blue diesel were spent this year, which can otherwise be used only by peasants and fishermen. If they hadn't spent 100 million gallons of blue diesel, that's clear to everyone. It is obvious that this diesel is used to the greatest extent in this country by builders, so that is why farmers and fishermen struggle with the price of that fuel. However, the term Financial Police itself makes one bad feeling. Our businessmen are slightly despised by the old police practice and I agree there was reason to abolish it, because, above all, it is biased because no political police should act in the business world. If that happens again, we really don't need one such institute in the Republic of Croatia. If it's formed then it needs to be specified by her authority. And this law with its 29 articles is anything but precise. This law will ultimately end with a debacle as does this Law on conflict of interest. It is interesting here in the law of Article 7 which speaks of the director appointed by the Government. At first glance, it is nothing strange, but I would be if it were to happen in the future by the Parliament, bearing in mind the power that will concentrate in the hands of that man. As far as the law is concerned, he's superficial, he's inconclusive, given the problem he's going to be dealing with. It is necessary to specify the powers and manner of handling in any situation as well as in that Law on conflict of interest. It is necessary to specify cooperation with the MUP and, in particular, with the supervision of the tax administration, to avoid overlapping in which each other will perform jointly. Many, as likely, told all of you that first, financial police came to me, and then the tax administration came to them. Now imagine such a painful situation when for 10 days you do nothing but take out the registrars from your closets, if you still have some political ambition, you are in public in advance and therefore additionally unscrupulous. Because as soon as the Financial Police come, everyone thinks you're a criminal at least. This is where a primate is given to the Financial Police in the affairs of the so-called control. Business losses, that's oil, coffee, cigarettes, alcohol. However, this should primarily be regulated because of customs duties, because the calculation of these specific taxes and the collection of those taxes is carried out on our customs duties. It is interesting, however, that the financial police have not been given jobs to oversee Casino, a casino that is known to also turn big money. The area still remains unregulated when the casinos Casinos are on Wednesday, but the point is next, citizens still resent the former Financial Police. So if someone wants to introduce her, not the IDS Club, then you have to specify all the cases in which the Financial Police will act rather than become a mechanism, any political or non-performing pressure that she was in until 2000. Article 9 here says. Financial police stations shall carry out financial supervision, legality, determination, calculation of the payment of budgetary revenue, identification of less calculated or paid budgetary commitments, control of the production of goods which are taxed under specific rules, etc. In one word, they can do what they want. And all of this is based on these 29 articles as far as this Law contains. I don't think that's going to end well. And that is why once again IDS is not for an institution or an institution that has, in some ways, made Croatia a major burden. Maybe it shouldn't have been lifted, I don't know. But right now, the Financial Police certainly don't need to be returned. What worries me a little is that it's supposed to be written in the morning list of 28. 11th in the headquarters, seats, at the headquarters of the Financial Police in Zagreb to be more of their four outposts in Rijeka, Osijek, Split, and Zagreb. So somebody's gonna say against the Financial Police, and now you're gonna activate that Pula or Pazin have that kind of station. I know, they better be as far away as possible. But this structure reminds...the former community of municipalities, and that is the idea that the Istrians were not satisfied with. So, some things here should be specified. For example, what happens to that blue diesel, but that's what I keep in mind that I can do existing services. I'm gonna say it one more time, we're against the Financial Police, because we're afraid she can turn into what that police were until 2000. I would ask the chairman to give us some time to change, because until the end of this debate, it's hardly possible to do so. And it can turn all that together as Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic spoke before me into an expensive, expensive experiment. In some context, it would also be good to put this Law in the context of the Tax Administration Act. The only new jobs that the IRS will now do in relation to the existing ones are the charges under the orders of the Financial Police, which I repeat once again for the fourth time, do not need to be formed. For that reason, I quote a folk saying, "When a man is bitten by a snake, then a lizard is clearly afraid." However, this tax administration is also interesting, more precisely, this famous Article 2 which literally states that the proposal of the director instead of the score is a point, and the words on the basis of an ad, i.e. the public tender, are deleted. Gentlemen, the schedule of assistant directors, headmasters, directors will be performed without an ad or a public tender. Well, if that's the case. Then there is quite a possibility of abuse, so there is no saying that one such member in this tax administration needs, and even less that IDS would vote for such an institute. And finally, to perhaps end it in a different tone, there was one thing that happened today in Pula, the Đuro Horache I mentioned at this pay phone, who spent one four, five years in a Serbian prison from 94 to 99, finally got an apartment. And here's something that happened well today from the D.A.'s Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29008	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club Mr. Zeljko Pecek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished gentlemen from the Ministry of Finance. Introducing that the HSS will be against the reintroduction of the Financial Police and for several reasons. The most important reason is, above all, the provisions of this Act that I am simply afraid of, so I am going straight to those provisions, the best example is Article 15, where we give the authority that a Financial Police Officer can call the responsible person of the Office of the Financial Police, which is kind of fine. But it can also call on a third party if I quote "with the notices necessary for the correct and full determination of the facts in the procedure". This formulation is famous, so it can invite anyone if it assumes anything that he might know about anyone. Of course, where does he take him? Does that have custody treatment? How long can he keep him in case he suspects that this third person knows anything about the fifth person, of course, here in the Law doesn't say that. Of course, we can suspect that it is also similar to what we are discussing in public these days, in the media as the POA did. That model is an officer of the Financial Police coming into supervision, where he writes the first solution, where he solves the objection, of course it stands in this Act as it was in the former Financial Police Act. The solution is allowed to appeal, but of course the one who sues and judges, because the independent service for secondary proceedings is with the finance ministry, it brings a final solution. It would be good if in this second-degree administrative procedure and a little civil society, that some experts are economic professions, that some are lawyers, so as to enable an entrepreneur to adopt a complaint or complaint before a single body that has an impartial decision. No, he's still on trial, and he's in the Administrative Court, and we all know that the most excellent deadlines for the end of a trial in the Administrative Court are three years. In three years, there are no more entrepreneurs, let alone business. Here is the Institute of Financial Police, which is transferred here from the old Law, experience, and also the scars feel a large number of craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. Of course, the model in which you go into supervision is exactly the same as in the previous law, the warrant issued by the head of the internal unit of the Financial Police. Of course he doesn't need anything for that. Enough to get someone to call him on the phone, enough to cover up some folle anonymous application and go into surveillance. Well, at least it would be appropriate in this law when we give some great authority to decide who's being supervised, how this investigation begins. Maybe it could be a college or a similar body, but no, here's exclusively financial supervision starting by handing out a warrant, a warrant issuing a leader that no one should be consulted about it. These three things I read in the law are terrible. It's hard to be an entrepreneur. It's hard not to believe that a subjective approach will be avoided here. And we have mechanisms, however, we should also have intentions to act responsibly and to convince the public that there will be no subjective approach. If that's what you really want, Mr. Minister, then I'm asking you, please, you weren't there, so I'm stressing that financial supervision doesn't start with a warrant issued by the head of internal control, and it can do it for no reason. I believe there should be a reason for that, and I believe it should be decided by a college. Similarly, in Article 15, do not leave the possibility of persons being brought into the premises of the Financial Police in any way, whether they have been in custody for how long and why it is unknown, especially if this leaves the possibility that third parties who may have some notices. This is really legally unclear, we're actually introducing a new police force that isn't just financial. If someone can detain someone, we open up these much more significant processes than a few articles in this law. Something to say which is why we in the former government have abolished the financial police. Because she left us 24 billion and 700 million kunas of unpaid taxes and contributions. Dear friends, that's true, that's true. That is true, 24 billion and 700 million unpaid taxes and contributions we found in 1.1.2000. After that efficient. Mr. Minister, you can come out here and not throw after me, you have the right to know that. [[Intruder: The speaker is not on, you can't hear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29010	It's good. Go on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29011	Yes, I will. Thank you. That's true, Mr. Minister, and that's a fact. You have it in your books at the Ministry of Finance and you can easily check it out and deny me. However, the same financial police did not leave only the dubiosis in terms of unpaid taxes and contributions but also left a large indifference weighing more than 50 billion kuna at that point in 1.1 and left 30 per cent of craftsmen in bankruptcy or before bankruptcy proceedings, as well as companies. It also left public companies or state-owned companies in losses that had neither intention nor opportunity to develop. The model by which it happened is exactly what we still have under some laws as a law on the execution of a state budget where there is discretionary law, I was already talking about it, to allow someone to postpone taxes and not to. Someone's gonna pay a tight interest and someone's gonna get a delay for a few months. Here, you see this probably won't like the entrepreneur when he finds out what kind of law on financial police we're going to adopt here in the Parliament. When it's enough to have someone report him anonymously to come into his room and arrest his third neighbor so he can possibly say something if a financial police officer assumes he might know something. That's what the law says here whether you want to admit it or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29012	Thank you very much. Two amendments to an incorrect quote, so the minister will. First Mr. Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29013	Mr. Vice President, I'm going to correct Mr. Pecek's completely incorrect allegations that the financial police are bringing in and incarcerated. That's incorrect. The article 15 specifically states that it calls for a conversation. If they do not answer that call, describe what will be discussed and why it is called for. If they don't respond, then the Ministry of the Interior is used to bring him in for questioning. There are no detentions and no insinuations about detention and imprisonment and Mr. Pecek wants to show that it is the worst repressive device in the period of communism he has ever served.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29014	Mr. Representative Marian Bekavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Pacek, claimed that the financial police left 24 billion unpaid taxes and contributions that are false. Comrade Pacek, you should know as a former minister that taxes were charged by the tax administration and not by the financial police.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29016	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29017	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's just fascinating how easily hard words are used, they make up laws for this speaker. Mr. Representative, the law that the former government passed on with dues and outstanding claims had the most honest intention to collect incomes that were not charged. However, it is not true that 24 billion were from 1.1.2000. Twenty-four billion was a state of mind at the time of the law. Unfortunately, with all the efforts of my predecessors of that 24 billion, only 2 billion unfortunately have been charged, but the debt has almost nothing to do with the financial police. However, when it wants to be politicized, then the pears and apples change, and so without any remorse, you say that someone is given a delay without interest. Mr. Pacek, if you give someone a round-the-clock payment, he's not free of tight interest. Well, at least we should know. But you keep saying it over and over again for this pay phone already several times. I just have to react because of your notorious lies that you're making. The second thing, if you had read the law then you would have seen what the basic task is and the purpose of controlling the financial police. Well, among other things, these 100 million gallons of blue diesel for the first eight months spent. And that's why you control it. And why is that? Because of that honest Croatian peasant and fisherman who was encouraged by the state not to use the right of other Croatian citizens to pay. That's what they need to push. So it should be said that Croatian peasants and fishermen need 15 million, 20 million liters or 30, it doesn't matter how many and how many others who use it incorrectly and should be eliminated. And you've got exactly what you've got in Article 5, which will be supervised by the financial police. I keep saying that it is important for this country to set a fiscal priority, so those who are fiscally interesting. However, you are constantly dealing with some small business, politics, and you constantly plant it on this speaker. I ask you nicely in the name of the Croatian Government as its representative of the Government do not make us something that is not the intention of this law. You can agree, it's your full democratic right to think the financial police shouldn't. I believe that because of these 100 million liters of blue diesel, because of millions of boxes of cigarettes and all that, due to unpaid pre-taxes, due to different data from the Chinese Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on the number of imported goods, the quantity of imported goods. Well, for the last time, you said even so that whoever gave the government the right to be in charge of HBOR. You're constantly showing something sensational. However, I repeat, 24 billion, this can be confirmed by MP Linic, who was the most in favour of it. That was the intention of the last government to fill the state budget with those claims that weren't paid. And none of us MPs who discussed this bill for this pay phone were against that law. Maybe we had different thoughts that these claims should have been divided into four groups precisely because of their incompetence but I never thought to tell Linic and the Church it's bad what you want to do. Their most honest intention was to collect those incomes. So they thought they'd do it with that law. They didn't mean badly if the effect of that law is now a million and a half or two million kunas. But that doesn't have to mean that their intention was bad. However, you take the right with your well-known politics to say that 24 billion have been left by the HDZ government. According to all the data made by the former government, the then Ministry of Finance of the 24 billion is about half as high as the government's two-year high interest rate. But I repeat, it wasn't a bad law and the intention of the last government wasn't bad. So don't even make any good moves and good government intentions where you sat down to something else. But I repeat, the problem is 100 million blue diesels. And maybe you're hit here, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29018	Let's not speculate on anything but talk about facts. Correction of Mr. Zeljko Pecek's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29019	Mr. Minister, I've never been involved in this before, not even now. But the financial police participated in this and it is incorrect that Croatia needs financial police because 25 countries in Europe have only one. Therefore, Croatia does not need it either. Be more efficient, create a program to fight the gray economy and with the existing too many people in the tax administration charge and do what you pay for. Things are very simple, and you yourself have confirmed that 24 billion kunas were not charged. I didn't accuse anyone. I just said what we inherited. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29020	Thank you very much. Let's go, let's move on. Mr. Krunoslav Markovinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29021	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs here are a few words about this. Why the financial police? Well, I've been following up on business for a long time. I've been following the businessmen. We thank God we have almost, between 800 and 1000, closer to 1,000. So there's a lot of good, honest entrepreneurs, craftsmen, merchants, innkeepers, whatever you want, but there are some oddities. We talk like we're living outside space and time, and we don't actually see what's going on. The poorer the company owner is getting richer. The smaller the pay, the bigger the yacht. Car, a cottage so I don't say everything in order, right? Therefore, we follow the proceeds. The suspension of the financial police in 2001 fell sharply. Why? Well, because actually everyone thinks they can do whatever they want, and it's proven later and can work. There's been a lot of strange things happening to us. We followed a little by tax, so we found that some cafes paid us a total tax of 30 kunas a month and so on, and then we looked a little bit at bigger companies. We've been able to access the data. So really very strange and unusual things. Who could we complain to? At least the authorities because apparently the protection was like that, it left us alone. Be with us and we'll be fine. In 2001, there was a suspension. What happened in 2000? In 2000, I personally testify to the financial police's orders, which we saw, in fact, according to the SDP Municipal Committee of the Municipality of St. Sunday comes to us, stays long and eventually the lady is disappointed, "And what are we going to do now? How are we going to go back when we haven't found anything?" So I guarantee firsthand, we can document it. Cancelled, I first thought in 2001 that you had abolished the financial police for reasons to protect your wealthy members and wealthy owners of your coalition partners, so the company of your wealthy coalition partners, however, feels that you have abolished because they have not met your political expectations. And instead of getting us, chiefs, the mayors of HDZ came back miserable, with no results, and they got cut off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29022	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament at 21.12, and 12 is in accordance with Article 207, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute hearing. And now we have two replicas and one correction of an incorrect quote. The first replica is Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29023	I'm really impressed that this time instead of arguments we're hearing this kind of debate. Thank you, sir, for your insults. I'm used to listening to them, but really embarrassing. It just proves that we're underreading materials, that we can't get ready, that we don't have arguments. That's about my opinion of your replica, of your debate. That's why I called in the replica. The truth is, I'm asking you if you know how many employees we have in the IRS, what are their powers and whether we need another parallel system or if we need to talk about why not, an efficient administration. No, gentlemen, we're ordering: the authorities are bandits, the governments are the ones who create a criminal policy. That's what you just said. Yes, we have wonderful messages. Because those are the arguments that follow this law. I have nothing more to add. Beautiful messages, just make it public. And then the citizens will really believe that we can solve their problems. I think this argument with this seriousness and this kind of problem, and you don't even know how many tax people we should account for ineffectiveness. And let's see if we need the parade systems. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29024	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Mr. Krunoslav Markovnović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29025	Dear colleague Linic, I'm extremely surprised, I'm surprised by two things. First, in the name of the club, your representative was mildly spoken three times as sharp as I was. Then why didn't you react? Why don't you take care of the situation at your club? I guarantee we'll be more professional, far nicer than we are right now, but first fix the situation with you. You attack and then you're surprised when we give it back to you. So I don't really know what's expected of us then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29026	Thank you very much. You could have done without inviting Mrs., er, replica to Mr. Slavko Linic, not Mrs. Antunović, Marinovic. ... Replica Mr. Josip Djakic, please. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29027	Mr. Vice President, with all these replicas, I would like to refer to the employees of the tax administration who might as well be doing the jobs of all those who are scheduled for the financial police. In fact, most of the financial police when they were disbanded ended up in tax administrations for those for whom political similarities were found. That's not what the gentleman said, he forgot to say it, but some of them stayed unscheduled, so they haven't found a job yet. But I would like to add to it what is the role of the financial police in this law, where Article 10 exactly states that the financial police are implementing the procedure under the provisions of the General Tax Law and of the specific laws prescribed by certain types of budgetary revenue if this law is not prescribed otherwise. Article 11 also provides for the detection and processing of criminal offences which have damaged the budget. Authorised officials of the financial police shall comply with the provisions of this law, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. If anyone hesitates... what is stated in Article 11 must indeed have good reasons to fear the establishment of the financial police. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29028	Thank you very much. We're going to correct an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Zeljko Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's an incorrect quote, and I'd like the minister to confirm it. The financial police were not more effective in the period up to 2000 than the IRS from 2000 to 2003. Because better income collection dynamics have been achieved and more revenue has been collected. I would like to ask you to discuss the figures, not that it has been collected more than it has been collected, and that is what the data tells us best that we had a budget in 1999 of EUR 6 billion, this year we have 12 billion and the final tax revenues are growing to us, Mr. Minister listen, at a rate of 5% and the development of Croatia is... At 3.5%. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So tax revenues are getting to us much better than we expect the rate of growth. And these are notorious facts that you and I know. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29030	Thank you very much. You can't because this is after the next speaker No, no, no. [[Intruder: No, after correction.]] Correction, but one more MP must appear under the Rules of Procedure. ... But he's got one to discuss. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, he can't, he can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Afterwards, you can contact after Mrs. Nevenka Majdanic. ... No, no, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] He doesn't have the right to answer. It's just that you called before they talked about the corrections. [[/Intruder: No, but I'm on Mr. Markovanovic. He had an argument.]] Therefore, Ms. Nevenka Majdanic is now, so you can pick up. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29031	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. One of the government's main objectives is to regulate the tax system that will lead communally through a certain period of time to an increase in economic activity. The assumption of this is to ensure a stable tax system and financial discipline, and to achieve this is to propose the establishment of a financial police force. The Financial Police Act would establish an administrative organisation of operational character in the Ministry of Finance, whose task is exclusively supervisory, i.e. to ensure an effective system of supervision and collection of income. The particularly important task of the financial police is to curb the official economy of the so-called economy. The grey economy and the prevention of tax evasion. The fact is that on the market, the number of users as well as the causes that are specifically taxed is increasing. However, this increase does not monitor the achievement of revenue on this basis in the state budget. The financial police would also also monitor what often follows avoidance and tax evasion, which is the calculation and collection of contributions to compulsory insurance The important tasks of the financial police are to monitor concession fees or the regularity and regularity of the implementation of the obligations of the budgetary obligor of concessionaires who are not in the current supervisory system of any supervisory authority. I believe that the adoption of this bill will help to increase efficiency in detecting non-reporting and non-payment of taxes, the contribution of excise duties and concession fees to strengthen the financial discipline of taxpayers, and thus achieve the overall revenue of the state budget. I believe that the establishment of the financial police will achieve the objectives set, so I suggest that the law be passed on to the financial police.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29032	Thank you very much. There's a replica of Mr. Antun Peru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to be honest, so I'm going to admit that I'm going to use the Institute of Replica to my dear colleague and I'm actually answering because I didn't make it to Mr. Markovanovic at the time. I replicate my colleague to the praises that have been sent.../The speaker disfellowshipped himself/..the coordination called, at the MUP from members of the service and where the interventions of the financial police were determined. It's during HDZ. And I can accept what Mr. Markovanovic said was in his place by order of the SDP municipal board. Same evil. Whether by order of the municipal board of the SDP or the HDZ. It's always the same evil. No matter where the roots draw him from. And just because I'm a living witness, I think that this institute is absolutely unnecessarily unnecessarily harmful to us. Harmful for this country and its citizens and has enough instruments to do so through existing institutions, I assure you this time will unfortunately be restored to HDZ. I don't want there to be a SDP next time. That's why I'm against that financial police force.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29034	You've replicated Mr. Markovanovic, not Mrs. Majdenic. Well, that wasn't exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure, but what do we do? It's over. Mr. Representative Jura Bitunjec, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29035	No, no, I'll be longer. Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members. There's a very important law in front of us that doesn't put things back in a position that we were in the '90s. I think the answer of the Ministry of Finance is on the matter of tax discipline and obligations that legal persons have to carry out when it comes to the state budget. I think it's right that there's a model that's been before us for a long time that's in front of us that he's a defect that we can't talk about the police in the classic sense of the word. But he's closest to German solutions. Although they do have a slightly different name. I believe that when it comes to the work cycle that he is well and precisely set out in Article 5. When it comes to certain products, it means petroleum products, tobacco products, beer. Alcohol coffee, so products that have a higher tax rate. Delkrug's work would also say that it is not only repressive days of a repressive character but also a preventive character, therefore financial police not only in some way that it is not the one who is going to punish but also in some way direct the businessmen primarily those who do not have a proper record. And in some ways it can be in that direction and helpful. When it comes to the tax administration and the financial police, I think that regardless of what the tax administration is far from the most important state instrument in terms of organisation records and tax collection, it is still too large in some way a bit of a trom system. So I see also the space for the work of the financial police in the way it was proposed in this law. This Regulation shall enter into What I particularly liked was the possibility that the financial police would do so. Debinc control. That is what I believe in point 7 of Article 22. I don't see any repression against citizens or legal persons in any way. But we are in the right order as one control mechanism and a clear message that each of us must fulfil its obligation. When I speak from us, then I mean economic operators do not present us in the Parliament on citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And to conclude, I support this Financial Police Act because it will contribute to the detection and collection of unreported payments, taxes, contributions from excise duties, concession fees. And better billing of these taxes means better quality and better charging of the state budget. More revenue from the state budget. And that may be my assessment, and the assumption may be that, in a reasonable time, we may also consider reducing certain tax rates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29036	Thank you very much. Mr. Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29037	Mr. Vice President, here I am going to try to be as brief as possible. And I'll be perfectly well-intentioned. Let's assume that this financial police will not be as promised or political, and that her employees will be completely professional. And then let's imagine what would have happened if she already existed. If she had already existed, she would have knocked on Minister Zuzula's door because she wouldn't have been political, so she wouldn't have made a political difference, if she had asked him why he had hidden the tax on renting one of his properties. The minister would say, as he said in public, that he forgot to pay. Since the law does not know the category of a forgotten taxpayer but one who does not pay the tax, it accuses him of tax evasion, the financial police would seek to bring Minister Zuzul in to determine that. Under this law. But you wouldn't find him at home, because the minister's on his way. She travels a lot, so she wouldn't find him. And then the financial police find out that the minister is in Parliament one day. And he comes here to the Parliament right at the moment of the vote of mistrust to Minister Zuzul. Now, since cops are financially, not only politically neutral but completely professional, they can count. I'm sure they can count. And what now, a ban here in the Parliament by Minister Zuzula, and they find themselves in wonder, see that it is miscounted in the Parliament. They see the quorum being declared, they see the quorum being declared gone. They're finding that there's an obvious fraud at work. And under Article 23, an authorised officer of the financial police may temporarily restrict or temporarily prohibit the carrying out of the activity. It would be very embarrassing for President Shakespeare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29038	Thank you very much. I'm surprised you have Mr. Jarnjak correcting the incorrect allegations, because you're... Do you or don't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29039	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29040	Here you go, Mr. Capricorn. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29041	Mr. Nenadu Stazic. One feller in the whole story. They can't arrest the minister because he has immunity, so he needs to get his immunity off first. So you made a mistake and the story fell apart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29042	Well, the story didn't go down, because in the meantime, it could have been called for a removal of immunity, and yet... So, and as last in the debate, Mr. Representative Vlado Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29043	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minsiter, but also very brief. I think I should say something after all. I, of course, support the adoption of the Financial Police Act because I believe it was not necessary to abolish the financial police in 2001. Here is just one answer to some thoughts and mentioning some co-ordinations in the MUP or elsewhere as at the time of HDZ authorities. I assure you that co-ordination has been at the time of the coalition government for the past four years where, indeed, under the direction of parliamentary representatives from your party has agreed on whom they will be processed, where inspections will be sent, whose audit, whose economic crime, etc. etc. I'm not going to go into the scale of things, but I'm only going to tell you about the financial police, and about those guys, they don't think they should have been cut off in 2001. It was obviously to be abolished so that the directors of tax administrations and directors of the financial police could be replaced under the cover of the reorganisation. And of course, it was the easiest thing to do in a way that made reorganization, formed a common new service, and thus already the heads of the existing become former. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29044	I just can't believe it. Here, we'll give the final word to Mr. Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29045	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As I expected. The debate has caused a number of political assessments and assessments, but you will see in the following law that it is not exactly the establishment of financial police as it was seen here, and just because of the lack of the functioning of the collection of the revenues of the state budget of certain debaters here, I would like to say that most of the budget is charged by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute and the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. Incomes that were supervised by the financial police and the tax administration on an annual basis ranged between 3 and 3 and half billion as far as they were determined by the supervision. The ratio was at 1-3, somewhere around 30% of the supervision was determined by the tax administration, and somewhere around 70% was determined by the supervision of the financial police. For example, in the last year of the existence of the financial police, financial police have established unpaid, miscalculated revenues from the state budget totalling 2 and a half billion kuna, and tax administration supervision has established around 800 million kuna. The charge until the termination was about 45% of these charged revenues. So, at least my personal intention is not to create a repressive apparatus that will serve as a means of political subscribing and accounting. It would be a disaster for both the government and the state. I have to be responsible here. My intention and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is to make this collection and supervision effective with a different model and different approach to monitoring the collection of budget revenues. So, given that, in a series of attempts this year, one way or another, we haven't achieved the desired results, we think that this is how we're going to achieve it. The other thing is constantly talked about the financial police as an instrumentation that will control small craftsmen. I still repeat the subject of interest, the focus of financial police interest is not small craftsmen. This can also be done in tax administration offices, by reviewing business books. It can make surveillance, but a very interesting thing is one tax control went to the Refinery of Rijeka and found that everything was fine. The second tax control went to the refinery Sisak, a completely identical account and established 280 million tax obligations. Now, that's what can't happen. If the mistake was made by Sisak, then she made the river. Or if he's doing the right river, then he's doing the right Sisak. It can't happen that two completely identical accounts, that's what can't happen. It's very interesting that we haven't used positive experiences from countries that have this surveillance longer than we do, no matter what they call it, but let's just say you can't control specific taxes and come to a brewery to control it by a lawyer or economist, for the simple reason that he doesn't know the technology process. Or, say, come to control the special taxes of oil derivatives. One lawyer or one economist does not know what the reaction of petroleum derivatives to temperature changes is. You in... you have temperature changes between night and day by 10, 15 degrees. Therefore, such people should also be employed by the Finnish police who will know the technological processes and who will be able to determine the right collection. So, what I can say responsibly here as Minister of Finance, as the man who proposed this law, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the goal and interest in the establishment of the financial police is not what was heard tonight in this assembly, because that would be devastating for all of us. No matter which political party we belong to. That would be a clear sign if we hadn't gotten away from a millimeter of some time and I'm saying it would be a tragedy. And it would be a shame for any of us to be in the position of the promoter if you suggested such a thing, purely human and morally. And that's why I reject all such remarks. I understand that I was a representative, that it is a political battle and that it is convenient to point at times with such or such, but because of my relationship with this High House and with the Government I repeat, it would be devastating if anyone were to be set up by the Financial Police for some kind of political accounting, because I say first of all we have to create a prerequisite that the grey economy will decrease, because the whole world has problems with it, we need to get the revenues in the state budget to increase to create preconditions for reducing those burdens that at this point make Croatia uncompetitive. If we don't charge what we need to charge, then we'd better break the laws. Why give someone the opportunity to be himself to decide which taxes they will pay. Therefore, it is specifically stated that it will be the basic tasks of the Financial Police and make sure that I, as the head of the ministry, stand up for it, because the only and primary motive is to fill the state budget with a ultimate goal for all to pay a lower tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29046	Thank you. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29047	Final proposal of the Financial Police Act, Bill No. 217 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29048	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29049	The finance minister accepts the amendment and becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please come in. To vote. The result? I find that 76 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed the Financial Police Act in the text as proposed by the Government along with the amendment adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, one mistake was made in the vote of the Financial Police Act. He's warning the operator, so we'll re-vote the Financial Police Act. Please engage. I am voting on the final draft of the law. You can vote. Score. I find that the law was passed by 77 votes for and 2 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29051	- Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. No. 218 The Proposer is Government. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate carried out by the Committees on Legislatives, Finance and the State Budget. I'm asking the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker, to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very short. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Administration Act is conditional upon some of the changes that occurred in past times and which should happen with the adoption of these laws that are proposed today, so here is a very short one. The tax administration shall therefore delete from the IRS the transactions that enter into force of the Tax Act. So at the time when the control and collection of special taxes has been transferred to the Customs Administration, it should be deleted from the IRS. The IRS has added new jobs that the IRS will carry out after the start of the work of the Financial Police, and I would like to draw particular attention to this to the fact that there are no parallel institutions, that many institutions operating at the IRS will be used for more efficient work at this time, which are the following: the implementation of the infringement procedure for infringement of tax rules and the rules on payment of compulsory insurance according to the request of the Financial Police and the implementation of the budget revenue collection that the financial police have established in the financial supervision process. In the Tax Administration Act, it is necessary to prescribe that the Tax Administration performs the work of its department, cooperates with the Financial Police and other bodies of the State Administration, the State Attorney's Office, other judicial authorities, units of local and regional (regional) self-government that have public authority to determine the collection and supervision of public revenues. And fifth, actually fourth. Tax administration officials carry out extremely complex and responsible jobs for which they are not adequately paid, and this law proposes the possibility of increasing the value of the coefficients of work complexity in the Tax Administration when financial conditions are created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29053	Thank you. Do the rapporteurs want it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29054	I will only be very brief, away from time, give support of course to this law and all four or five laws that make up one system a whole, one unique activity, and perhaps not a burning one, there we have heard various comments that it is particularly good that within the Tax Administration we will be able to reward additional officers who we have to admit, have no large wages, have great responsibility and yet some other added jobs. And maybe something I haven't reported in other laws yet, should be said. Is it possible to change something in this tax system, because as much as we would make the law, our taxpayers are geniuses and always try to avoid tax obligations. Something called a place of tax obligation, because we have a situation, and I'm talking from life and practical examples, that in the same place you have six or seven changes the nominal owner always stays the same, so it's different to call an object that works for the IRS and avoids for decades contributions, taxes, all those taxes that should be given. Since he doesn't have any property, he doesn't have anything to do and he normally does it once for his husband, his wife, his sister, his grandmother, anyone. So the place couldn't per me, there was such a system in Germany, in that place no one could ever open a restaurant, shop or any other object that is subject to a tax obligation until the one who worked until then had fulfilled all his obligations and it would in some way introduce much more order and less the possibility of abuse of all these laws that I of course support. So on this trail, perhaps in some of the laws, it is possible to install it in the future, because, of course, the reform continues to be upgraded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29055	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act, P.Z. No. 218 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29057	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29058	We have Amendment 1 to Article 7 of the Minister. ... That's the one that's been withdrawn. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the amendment to Article 9 second. That amendment has been accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. To vote. The result? I find that, with 77 votes for and 3 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Tax Administration Act has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Government together with the amendment adopted. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, according to the proposals of the clubs of this point from 24th to 28th, I propose a united debate because it is a matter which is, 24, 25th, 26th, 27th and 28th. Are we in agreement? All right. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 205, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 206. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 214, - Final proposal of the Data Collection Act on insurance contributions to compulsory pension insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 216, - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 215 I ask the Minister of Finance, Ivan Shuker, to further explain the proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29060	Thank you very much. I'll start with the Mandatory Insurance Contribution Act. I would just like to say that all these legal changes offered in this law are the consequences of the observed shortcomings after the first adoption of the law, the amendment of the Law on Mandatory Contributions. I must say that at the time of the adoption of the Law on Mandatory Contributions many things were undefinedly incorrectly, undefined, so at the end of the year the government did not by one regulation release those taxpayers of contributions but simply extend their payment. This primarily applies to journalists and farmers, and this law proposes to correct these irregularities. Therefore, since certain regulations which are incorporated into this draft are the basis for calculating contributions to insurance undertakings carrying out their own business with a working relationship, the basis is real income, i.e. According to business books. For independent artists, the contribution for accounting according to the basis which is a multiple of the average pay coefficient of 1.2, scholarships to students, students and athletes, assistance to children and families of the deceased worker are excluded from the obligation to contribute. Other changes. Additional obligations shall be exempt from fees to members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and from charges to sports judges and delegates in amateur competitions, the basis of the rate and procedure shall be laid down in the case where the employer sends a worker to a professional training, study or postgraduate study abroad. The obligation to contribute and the procedure in the event of compensation to persons who provide care and assistance to Croatian military disabled persons paid by the competent ministry has been arranged. The basis of contributions for journalists, dentists, physiotherapists and film workers is reduced from a coefficient of 1.1 and a new coefficient of 0.65 is proposed. An obligation to contribute health insurance under certain circumstances shall be introduced for students and students working through intermediaries at a rate of 0.5. The obligation to contribute labour injuries to farmers is abolished because they do not exercise the right to pay in case of illness. The right to remain in the event of a debtor benefiting from leave under social care regulations for the care of a child with special needs and receiving compensation from the Centre for Social Care. The power to apply the most annual basis has been extended to employers and the payment of other receipts is proposed infraction and punishment in the event of non-reportation. It is proposed that the procedure for the establishment of an outdated right of payment of contributions and the write-off of non-refundable contributions, and the refund of contributions be made to the tax administration. The tax administration shall record the creation of obligations and contributions for pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings at the level of the payer-to-payer level which it is currently working for, which for the time being the REGOS is carried out by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. And what is likely to be the most controversial in this debate is the relationship between REGOS, the Croatian Pension Insurance and Tax Administration. I must say that openly and honestly and correctly that very successful pension reform we have completed with this clear definition of what the REGOS function is. REGOS at this point the state budget costs over 100 million kuna. However, at the moment, most of the work is carried out for the second pillar of pension while the records of the first pillar insurance company shall be kept in line with the calculation whether or not contributions have been paid. The registration of obligations per payer shall be kept by the tax administration. I have to say, in my first talks with people who ran pension reform in Croatia, people from the World Bank, there were a lot of disputes about the REGOS problem and the tax administration. However, the newspaper inscriptions that said the Ministry of Finance advocated that the tax administration did not run out of 2,000 employees and that this is why it is proposed to function in the REGOS. However, I must point out for the truth that the tax administration has received an amendment to the Law on mandatory contributions to the management and control of contributions, however, there is no employment of any new employee in the tax administration. But it is very interesting that in the Croatian Pension Insurance Office that has stopped doing this job, everyone else has been employed. REGOS, which is claimed to have to do this job and that something revolutionary has at the moment 17 employees and a complete job for REGOS performs FINA and most importantly pays the state budget, and FINA collects from REGOS not a form but an item per form. So the annual amount of REGOS liabilities to FINE is over 100 million kuna. One elemental question is asked. If REGOS keeps insurance records for a second pillar of pension that currently has assets over 6 billion kuna, does it not make sense that the second pillar of pension alone pays REGOS, because it is practically private insurance. And it would make sense that if the REGOS were to do a job for them to pay for it and that the state was to pay for the part that it does for a part of the state. However, yesterday at the I.C. Congress of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs asked a question of these powerful forms that entrepreneurs must wear and teach to the tax administration, which to REGOS, which Finni and we have spoken to both REGOS and experts from the World Bank over the past few months, and we have come to realize that it would be best to make a common form for the tax administration and REGOS. So they would simplify their lives to taxpayers, on the other hand they would simplify and cheapen the system, and on the third hand, most importantly, they would get a more accurate and better record of pension bonds. So what is very important to note is that contributions are calculated for the calendar year and their incorrect records and all that has happened with these contributions in the past period is among other things and the consequences of those 24 billion that we have talked about in the last few years in this assembly very much. Because it was not registered, there was no payment, businesses went bankrupt, it simply remained a commitment to the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and I think it would be a real disaster for Croatia if after such successful pension reforms, this administrative cycle would not be closed, which would be primarily efficient, transparent and not this expensive, because I say 100 million per year from the state budget to pay for the records that the tax administration can practically manage with 10% of the funds, I think at the very least it is uneconomic and on the other hand the second pillar of pension that has at this point income more than 6 billion kuna for its needs that the REGOS performs for it would be logical that I pay that service. But I say there is no problem here for tax administration employees, here is the problem, unfortunately we have transferred a complete job from one institution that has over 2,000 employees to another institution, these employees stayed there and every year when we adopt the financial plan of the Croatian Pension and Croatian Institute of Health Insurance mostly goes to their salaries. Unfortunately, however, they do not have an effective job to do at the moment. This is what needs to be resolved in the next period, and that is what at least one part of it is trying to solve by amending this law, because I repeat, it would be a shame for a successful reform to end because of some administrative mistakes badly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29061	Thank you very much. The committee's rapporteurs. President of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Honorable Representative of Šima Prtenjača.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29062	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Since there are five laws here that are clauseally bound to each other, I will not read the reports of all five laws but in one sentence say that the Finance Committee has unanimously accepted, or proposed to the Parliament for the adoption of all five laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29063	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur want any other committees? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. A SDP representative club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29064	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, co-workers. I must express regret that here are the questions that literally concern every citizen in this country, every entrepreneur in this country, every natural and legal and legal person who makes any income we consider is in this truly late hour, although I think it's a good thing to speak unitedly because it's really a matter that is unique and it's good that we have a package and then we have the opportunity to look at it. So I'm sorry that we're talking about this right now, and I'm sorry that my initial, my initial pleasure when I, I think, was in May when the decision was made to change these laws to fix, actually correct the bad solutions or not enough clear solutions that were seen in 2003, which is my initial satisfaction being clouded by what actually came as a package. I'm not going to take into account everything that I think is well done in these laws and what it really is, which really means progress in the system itself, a whole series of gaps that have been seen and concerned the insurance of people who haven't entered that system and who should have been already in the first draft of the law is good that they're here, I'm not going to talk about it. With the right, Minister Schuker says it is the most problematic part regarding the tax administration's relationship with REGOS. It only looks to the eye like a conflict and a problem and a question of two institutions throughout this system. Just in the eye. The conflict has lasted since the beginning of the concept of pension reform, from the very idea of creating REGOS as a single insurance register. The conflict has become a conflict of officials, who have said I would seek to question the fundamental and fundamental idea of pension reform and the concept of united gathering, collecting contributions. It was not easy for me or for the previous government to deal with the problem and the conflict. And indeed, despite the significant and large results achieved by the introduction of a RS form that replaced 9 other forms. The only institution that didn't get into that system and that gave me weird still have to say vague resistance was the IRS. Obviously, the proposal for these laws that we have today suggests that the story in this regard is at least completed for a while and that the IRS has carried out a "win" and that this is actually a final attack by the IRS on the principle of united collection that has already proven itself in practice. I want to say that M5 has been a pattern since the beginning of this year, which has not been tolerated by employers since the beginning of this year, but generated in the REGOS last year is not to be trusted by 88%. The same can be done for the I.D. and P.K. forms in the IRS, which would then increase the data flow according to the IRS, which would result in tax, tax, tax analysis and would not have to wait until the end of the year to determine whether the data is a good calculation or not. Instead, we hear, and here, in the light of this Law, it is said, by the IRS, that they do not need that information. Exactly for not believing it. And that parallelism in reporting is well seen as a problem should be resolved by narrowing the RS pattern, not by adapting them to a new data stream. In view of this, therefore, what is stated in the very proposal of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, I would like to remind only this tall home that a truly gigantically significant step has been made in marking a vision, which has some kind of developmental phase in realisation. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that until the application of this Act began, the contribution issues have been regulated through more than 40 legal implementing rules. Now it's settled by one law. If we've achieved stable funding, I'd say in legal arguments. Stable financing of insurance independently of the amount of contributions charged, as the difference between the necessary and the funds charged is ensured on the burden of other State budget funds, without borrowing in the commercial banks. Then we brought about a reform of the pension system, all together and brought about a reform of the health insurance system, we made sure that it was not a criticism in the explanation, but a recognition of 2.5 billion kuna of the transition cost, 25 billion kuna, you know what 2.5 billion kuna is to secure and increase pensions, etc., what we did. And I have to say, we've normally arranged everything that you say here well. It is also important to address the issues of, therefore, a single regulation of regulated collection of contributions. All payments to individuals, what has not been done so far, have been made to these changes. Any person acting independently in the form of an occupation shall be covered by income activities. Obligation to contribute on a number of grounds for the same person, etc. I don't want to pick it up. So, this whole set of laws followed and followed not only what was happening in the reform of pension insurance as the most complex and expensive part of social security, but also in the framework of labour legislation reform and I would say we killed a few or achieved a few of the goals we wanted, that is to maximise the social security of people, but also to make the state an income and to base, so everyone has a good basis for this future social security. But a good target would say these laws, but a bad bullet that doesn't hit the essence of things. You say well that parallelism has been found to exist and that part of the business is done at the same time by several institutions. Legality and billing control, Tax Administration, HZMO, HZZO. Determination of the contribution to the resolution of the Tax Administration of the HZZO. Recording HZMO. For REGOS when it comes to the contributions of the second pillar. Reporting Tax Administration REGOS. But then something that you failed to convince me now, Mr. Minister. It is said that it is necessary for the IRS to have, it is said, an original and credible file on the fact that and when a payment obligation was made and that it must have its own data. It seems to me that the conclusion that you've come to here has led to a completely wrong conversation, in order to say it in logic, and that we've got a law that annuls what we've done well in the consolidation of data flows and that it disintegrates that data, this time, to the data of the first and second pension insurance, on the one hand, and all the other data on mandatory contributions at the level of the taxpayer on the other hand, which objectively means a step backwards. An objective step backwards. I'm sorry that instead of us being the world model. How to successfully integrate data flows, contributions and taxes, which we were, what we did, why we got recognitions from the world in this case we are making absolutely unnecessary in my opinion step backwards. It has been said that RS is being formed, that data collection is not being used, which is of course not true. They have been using data exchanges from all institutions, except the IRS, which has introduced additional forms and since the first day has been against this concept. The main reason for not accepting was that RS is not their form, and as far as I remember REGOS had a proposal to solve this problem, so that the RS form is owned by two institutions, and therefore by the IRS and REGOS. Why I couldn't really figure it out. But dear colleagues and colleagues, if we had a system and so far that worked and that led to our providing the following results. In the personal accounts of the insurance company, therefore 99.18% of the total paid money is in the second pension column, with maximum respect for confidentiality and privacy because it is the personal property of each insurance company. We were well placed formal, so we had a system with well-placed formal, accounting and logical controls when receiving RS forms. Contributions to compulsory insurance are accurate and accounted for. This has led to a larger collection of contributions, I can give the exact information that confirms it here. Processes are automated which ensures daily data update at the level of the obligor and the insurance company. There's been a cut in black pay because it's in every insurance company's interest to have the employer pay the exact amount. A unique entire insurance register is established with data related to the account of salaries, fees and other receipts. These data are very transparent, procedures automated so that different patterns and reports can be generated from them. In one place, insurance companies can obtain confirmation of the up-to-date data entered in the register. Overall collected data related to insurance pay accounts are a quality source of data for statistical research at state, county, city, municipality level. The RS successfully replaced nine HZMO forms. Related institutions receive quality data, etc., etc. To conclude, it is obvious that the debate would require and hopefully be discussed in professional circles. To conclude what I can't do as an impression. I cannot be impressed, Mr. Minister, that this time instead of politicians who should offer a vision, officials have won over because of some small interest in the institution. I can't get rid of that impression. We had the opportunity to be avant-garde in something and as if we were dissatisfied with having Janica Kostelic, we wait for Austria to do so or I don't know any other sports power before us. We're going back to solutions that objectively mean step back and only a little bit needed, the whole system isn't finished, there's a lot more to be done. It just took a little more political will. I'm sure that Regos, who is true, would agree with you, originally, would only be designed for retirement for the second pillar. So this is not going beyond the basic concept and model but once we've already made it a sin to take that step back. We're all going to lose this way I'm convinced that maybe I'm wrong, maybe by heart I'm speaking, protecting 600 or 700 jobs. And as for the expenses you mention, I don't think I do, Mr. Minister, as you say here. On the contrary, I think it's a great advantage for the state to unserve a part of the work that someone else can do for her. There's no reason for us to have giant ministries with thousands and thousands of people when these jobs can be done by someone who will do something else on the market. Well, it's an advantage that Regos has 17 employees, it's not his lack. But the price of these jobs is another question. That's another question. What is the price of these people in the tax administration who will work on these jobs. It's not true it's nothing. Every man and his day is worth something and we know from experience what the state administration means and what the company is doing and which is confirmed on the market. These are questions which, therefore, I am absolutely for autsoring, that's what modern states do. I was in South Manhattan seeing private prisons. The state doesn't pay to have a prison but to give it to privates. Why do we think that everything has to be done by the state? Why do we think the state has to do this? So that's not a negative. The outsoring of these jobs, the use of capacities and human and technological, informative FINAs was, in my opinion, an extraordinary move that gave us a start-up advantage over those who didn't have it and that's why our pension reform was so successful. In that sense, you haven't convinced me that we are, that this is a step forward. I'm afraid we've taken a step back. And the philosophy of "weave the wheel as well as the father" fear of change, fear of these quantum leaps that we have opportunities to make in this country is not a reliable way to get in the position and condition that we so wish for, to catch the connection to those we would like to compare ourselves with. Correctly, I am not saying that it is not correct but too ambitious for what we should do in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29065	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29066	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank MP Vidovic for the debate very correctly, but that is why I would like to clarify some things. Just what is proposed by this law has been agreed with the creators of pension reform and agreed with experts from the world's largest bank to assist in pension reform. So, Regos should lead the individual and the first and second pillars, and should lead, hire the payer on the second pillar. That should be Regos' concern. You can't ask an esteemed representative that the tax administration doesn't have its own form for more than 30 billion kunas of budget revenue. Therefore, at the time when the taxpayer submits a report on the income tax, he will submit a report on his total obligations in the tax administration and that is the only part of which the tax administration takes over. With the current staff, therefore, that reference officer who has led the taxpayer so far with the basis of the PD form and the ID form will make him, only that form will be modified, will get another position, will record his obligations with the basics of pension and health and Regos should be guided. However, you have another problem that no one ever wanted to put on the table and discuss. That's the problem of extra employees in the FINA and the problem of extra employees in HZMO. In such a way as Regos does it was intended to hire one another, but then it was not necessary to transfer the obligation to the tax administration because the supervision and control must have some kind of document that someone signed and submitted to me tomorrow so that the basis of that document could come into control and say you did pay, you did not pay. I don't know if you've seen one taxpayer's card in the IRS when you open his first page you have all his fiscal obligations. So, if you want to have an up-to-date review of their obligations with the basis of a pension and health total, not individually he must get it in some form. He can't wait for some information from someone else. But Regos and thus we fully agreed with the people who have been doing pension reform in Croatia in this function, so that they are leading individual savings both in the first and second pillars for each citizen and also that since the second pillar is private, it is private for them to lead the debt per payer in total for the second pillar to be done by Regos. How will Regos organise this is his business, with this individual savings for the first pillar as regards the costs of Regos being settled from the state budget as it is now being settled. And as for the second pillar, he needs to settle down from those who have entered that second pillar because I say it's illogical, we're talking about that financial police 39 million that it's a terrible lot. And let's say the Regos commitments last year and this year, at the annual level of the FINA, are over 100 million kuna. So it's not a step back. I think we're done. I'm not saying that this is ideal but at this point it's out of the conversation so both sides and third parties have come to the fact that at this point it's the best solution. Perhaps in two or three years, there will be a better solution, but since we are also talking about a large number of people showing one basis for payment and the other being wages. So that's the problem of Croatia that maybe some other countries don't make. So until the order is made, these data must come to the tax administration because if one firm has 100 or 200 employees, if it does not pay 2 or 3 months for them in retirement and health care, that reference in the tax administration must see it. And he has to see it based on a pattern. And the demand on the other hand of those who pay these contributions was, and yesterday there were over 2,000 in Lisinski just give us a simple one, give us as few forms as possible. So all these changes regardless, I have to tell you, there was resistance from the tax administration, on the other hand from HZMO on the third side of Regos when we started all these talks. But this is some kind of a joint arrangement now, which should at this point be the best thing that can be done. I'm saying, here's thank you again for the debate, but this is what I felt like to tell you because this is a deal between each other that couldn't talk in the second month, but they were able to agree on something and that's the result of this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29067	Thank you. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. A club of representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29068	Mr. President, the Honorable Minister, gentlemen of the ministries, colleagues and colleagues, I will not enter this debate that has been conducted so far in terms of assessing the functioning of the system. I want to believe that this was done in the best of terms and that, indeed, positive shifts to the greater functionality of the system are made, and secondly to the protection of a certain number of employees in this, both in the ministries and in the FINA. I will primarily refer to two laws in this package, which is the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, since the debate and the Pension Insurance Act are united with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Croatian party of pensioners has reviewed both laws with its partners and I will first talk about the proposal for a law on mandatory insurance contributions. So we can also evaluate this bill and evaluate that the approach to regulation of the whole matter was correct and concrete. We appreciate the proposals' efforts to facilitate the collection of contributions, to reduce red tape anyway, and to make the system uniform and transparent. However, there are two details that bother us that the overall picture of this bill would be even better. Our remark is directed towards, according to Article 28 of the basic law on which amendments and additions are proposed, which limits the size of the basis for pension contributions to the average salary times the coefficient of 6 times 12 months. This affects the diversity of citizens in payment obligations. So whoever has a higher salary pays a lower contribution than I elaborated on my discussion of the Income Tax Act even though it would be more suited to the name of the Income Tax Act. I'm talking about the previous law that we had previously absorbed, and I'm talking about Article 33 of the Law. But since the promoter did not provide for an amendment to this article, there is nothing we can do to correct the amendments, but it does not interfere with the implementation of our amendment to the Income Tax Act because the money will remain in the Treasury and will contribute to the resolution of pension and social problems. Therefore, we can intervene in Article 37 of this proposal, where we have submitted an amendment requesting that in Article 76(1), the wording of the former paragraph 1 which explicitly determines that insurance cannot be reduced or abolished in the event that the accounting and payment obligation has not been calculated or paid or partially paid the contributions made in accordance with Articles 71, 72, 74 of the basic law. The insurance company has no obligation to pay contributions from, and on salaries and other incomes unless at the same time in the function of the obligor, which is rare, since several other laws define the depositors, we believe that this Amandan is correct, socially and legally acceptable in the function of the weaker in the world of work, and contributes to the unequivocality, unequivocality of the system. As for the Pension Insurance Act, we will also intervene with amendments. We think that, as well as work is correct, correct and that it is primarily about technical solutions that improve the functioning and more explicitly determine individual, individual parts or individual content of this law. However, what is disputed about us is Article 13 where we do not consider it necessary to introduce a new, new paragraph 2 in Article 13 or Article 13 of the amendment and additions, or in Article 75 of the basic, basic law. We'll write an explanation along with the amendment. Which we also believe in the article, in Article 21, respectively, in that same Article 13, paragraph 13, in that same Article, paragraph 8, in amendments and additions, so in this proposal, where we propose to change that position and it is said that the payment made for the year in which the pension is granted is taken, no, the proposal does not take it. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. With this proposal, the insurance company acquires a more favourable right which is socially, socially justified. And we also have one dilemma. Article 21 of this proposal is about interpretation, interpretation of international contracts in the second degree where we consider that it should nevertheless be stated by the Council or which is a special establishment unit in the central establishment unit of the institution which provides interpretation in the second, second stage of the complaint. I think this is so many words that something undefined would say that it can't be acceptable for us, so please advisers. We really didn't have any, we didn't have that much imagination to say what name we'd give to that body, so I'm asking you who have more experience to use a more practical name than what it says here. And of course we have one amendment to Article 31. Since, of course, we need it when we adopt this and I hope we will, that we need the consolidated text of the Pension Insurance Act, but we need to set an appropriate deadline and we also have an amendment here, and I remind you that we have already changed the Pension Insurance Act this year, and that these changes also had a duty, a obligation to issue, determine and issue a consolidated text of the law. That would practically be all of the Croatian pensioners' parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29069	Thank you very much. The Smacks' Shime, the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29070	Mr. President, co-workers and colleagues. I have prepared a report for each of the laws of these five standing there. BUT I hear my colleagues yelling we want a revolution so I don't know what it refers to, if there is a revolution in speech I will try to explain it very briefly in this address. I said in one sentence that the Committee on Finance supported those five laws. And now that the committees have passed and between today's debate there have been some amendments and consensus, so I expect that some more details about it will be resolved, that there is no need to elaborate it again tonight. So let me just say a few sentences about all five laws. It has been observed that so far this area is in the jurisdiction of several ministries and several state institutions. That's actually one of the fundamental reasons why it was necessary to approach this kind of reorganisation. And in this context, it is not more important to affect the rights of all those who are bonds of these compulsory insurances, so here are just a few illustrative examples of d we are taking part in the supervision of all these data, accounts and charges, the tax administration, the Croatian Pension Insurance Office and the Croatian Health Insurance Office. Similarly, in determining the contribution to solutions or tax administrations or the Croatian Institute of Public Health, the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance. The third is that the registration is also in the area of HZMO Regos, in the second degree of tax administration and so on. And fourthly, the tax administration and REGOS participate in the reporting. It follows, of course, that it is necessary to regulate the provisions relating therefore to each other from the pension insurance law section which is taughtly related to the border and additions of this law on compulsory contributions. Laws and data collection to insurance companies and so on. The Act on Mandatory Voluntary Pension Funds and the Health Insurance Act. Here's an area that needs to be regulated in these five laws and, of course, there are many doubts about whether there could be a lot of things and whether it could still be better than that. Now there are shortages, they may not see enough of that ultimate solution. But the fact is, of course, that table display when we see who the bond holders are and everything that comes out of it. In the final tablar review we see that actually all of this together will cost less taxpayers a total mana than it is today. It can be accepted from that side. Also on this side in the division of the new division of jurisdiction we hold that a postulate could be achieved I would allow in my reinterpretation the three pence said. Simplification, refinement, and improvement. That's quite a reason for these five laws to be passed, as suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29071	Thank you. Honorable representative of the DRagutin Lesar Club of Representatives of the HNS, PGSA. He's gone, no words. Honorable representative Željko Pecek Club of Representatives of HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29072	Thank you very much, Mr. President, gentlemen of the ministry. I'd like to say something commendable about a move taken by the Ministry of Finance. And on the contribution with compulsory pension and health insurance. I have to pour a little bit of ash as a member of the former government because we've been unsettlingly formulating and we've even sent out payments if we're more specific about those who are willing to perform trades or free occupations or do it on pension. So these payments were current at the end of 2003. We have, however, corrected this by a regulation that was also introduced at the end of last year, and now this regulation is being translated into a legal solution. In fact, those who carry out crafts or leisure activities as a permission are either employed or retired. They pay a lot of niche mandatory contributions to pension and health insurance. Here is the proposal that this is a loss for the state budget of about 157 million kuna. At the same time, we read in some journals how in fact total reverses pay 80 million kuna to the state budget through their activities. And it would probably be fair to try to deny it at least because it is a hundred thousand craftsmen and 150 thousand employees of them who obviously have a much greater meaning both for the state budget and for pension and health insurance. However, something further could be done there, so I would just ask the Proposer to consider through his own amendments the possibility of allowing craftsmen and workers to be unemployed, as well as everyone else, to benefit from the rights that p-rape them from the employment office. There's one illogicality if the craftsman closes his craftsman has the right to help with the office and he as a business holder has no. Of course, it must be emphasized that it has no right exclusively because it does not pay for the touch, but I have here a proposal from the chamber Mrs. eons suggest that if the craftsman wants to choose this variant to install the possibility that he, by his own decision, will become an obligor of the contribution to the employment of oranges in that case, if he closes the crafts or otherwise runs out of income, he can use these opportunities as well as all other employees in the Republic of Croatia. That's one illogical thing. The margin between the owner of the craft shop and the craftsman also happens if the insurance hold is calculated with an increase in duration. The worker has this right and the craftsman pays for it but if they work in the same craftsman's workshop because of the regulations, it cannot be paid for itself by the craftsman if the holder of the work. These are actually one illogicality that could be improved, so that it also enables the craftsman as an entrepreneur to actually pay the insurance rate with an increased duration. And what remains to be said remains open, which remains unsaid until the end, regardless of the lower base, those who do something extra or are retired, pay both peace and health insurance. In retirement insurance, something is happening to them, and apparently I can get something positive with my dowries. However, for those who pay for two basic health insurance, working at a company as a worker and through crafts as an additional activity, they do not exercise any rights. It is illogical for someone to pay thousands of kunas in the budget funds, i.e. the peace funds better said here in health insurance, and despite the payment of double contributions, there is no additional right. If that's exactly how it's supposed to be, and if it's all the way to the end, I'm not sure. Finally, one major illogicality is between exactly the law on profit tax and income. Because if I work at a company, I pay my contributions, and taxes on my salary at the same time I have another firm I can get all the profits out of the company and pay it to myself. However, if I do so as a craftsman and also want to handle income, of course, I have a mandatory payment of these contributions for pension and health insurance that are smaller, but they are actually the same and it is actually an unequal position which is here in Article 95 between those involved in entrepreneurship under the Tax on Profit and under the Income Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29073	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic. He's not present. He's losing his word. Honorable representative Katarina Fuchek. She's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Representative Joseph Leco. He's gone. Shares the fate of two previous MPs. Dear Representative Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29074	Mr. President, I will be very brief, because everything is said in the opening appearance of the motionor, as well as in these discussions that have been held so far. In fact, I only reported on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Insurance Act. However, since in our health insurance law all the articles of the law relating to the collection of contributions are now in this law a unique law on contributions to compulsory insurance and that is, in fact, the only difference in our law, so there is no need to repeat it in particular now. The only thing I would suggest to the promoter is to connect with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, because we have recently introduced a unique number of insurance companies. So it will no longer be that any change in the employer's change and health card will be followed by that number of insurance companies regardless of the change in the employer. Therefore, this will be a useful data that both the tax administration and this practical application of the Mandatory Insurance Act will likely benefit. I mean, for information processing and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29075	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin. He's pulling. We've exhausted the list of speakers and speakers. Minister of Finance Ivan Shuker final brief review.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all for your upset. Perhaps this last debate on these laws has shown how we can do something good and be good at discussing it. Here, maybe it's a future guideline for cooperation. So, honestly, everyone's having an argument. I think we've taken one step forward. But this is one topic that requires constant dorado and here. The ministry that carries this job is open to any good suggestion and good suggestion. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29077	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on all these five bill proposals. We only have one short dot left. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance, Proposal for a Law No. 205 The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired Persons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29079	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29080	You have Amendment 2, you have Amendment 1. The Committee on Legislatives shall, in accordance with Article 58.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29081	No, I have amendment number one. Club of representatives of the Croatian Party of Retirement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29082	No, Minister. I'm telling you, Amendment 1. The Committee on Legislatives shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union, in the Official Journal of the European Union, in
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29083	Excuse me, Mr. President. This amendment shall be adopted by the Committee on Legislatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29084	Yeah. Amendment 2 to Article 59?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29085	The Legislative Committee is also being adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29086	Thank you. Both amendments become components of the law. We have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29087	The amendment is not accepted on the grounds that the Mandatory Insurance Contributions Act regulates the types of contributions of the payer, the payer of the contribution, the payer of the contribution, the base and the rate of the account, the way in which the payment and payment obligations and other questions related to the payment of the contribution for compulsory insurance are determined. All matters related to insurance rights under compulsory insurance are laid down by the basic rules and by each of the social insurance sectors of pension, health and employment, and the current provisions of Article 76 are proposed to be deleted. A law establishing the rights in the event of a contribution not being paid. And that's why you can't accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29088	Thank you. Who's in favour of this amendment? Thank you. He didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please engage. To vote. The result? I find that with 71 votes for, 5 abstentions and 2 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Insurance in the text, as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted. - Proposed amendments and addition of the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2004 is proposed by the Government. The debate was conducted by the Committees of Finance, the State Budget, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Communications when Finance Minister Ivan Shuker is here, please welcome the Ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very short. On the proposal of the Croatian highways due to increased revenues from tolls and due to increased other revenues, the financial plan is proposed to increase by, in fact, the revenue side by 206 million kuna, and so much to increase the expenditure side. Since the Croatian Parliament is responsible for establishing a financial plan and since there is no need for budget rebalancing, I believe it was necessary to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt this proposal for a financial plan, so that Croatian highways could use these 206 million by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-01-0.u29201	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. No one checked in or checked in. I'm closing the debate. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Tomorrow would begin with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products and Medical Devices, item 16 of the Agenda. Then point 29. Final proposal for a law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment purposes, point 30. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms and the Final Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Archive of the Homeland War. For these two days, we discussed 30, 27, so about 30 points of the agenda. Thank you very much. I'm interrupting the session. So tomorrow at 9.30. Good night. Proposal to amend and supplement the financial plan of the Croatian highways for 2004. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 24. I am giving the budget law to the vote of the Decision on granting consent to the amendments and additions to the 2004 financial plan. Croatian highways. Please, let's get on with it. We can vote. Score. I find that, with 77 votes for and 1 abstention, a decision has been proposed.
