ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u23453	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Croatian Party Club, I would like to say a few words before voting and make some suggestions. In our HSP, this situation is still unsustainable because on the one hand we are embarrassed to see such a situation where practically the strongest part of the parliamentary opposition is not present, and on the other hand we believe that we have an obligation also because of the legal points on the proposal, which the Croatian party has proposed and to be present at these sessions. Therefore, these are games without borders where we would not like to participate further, and we believe that this situation is painful in the Croatian Parliament waiting for quorums, the bending does not correspond absolutely to anyone, at least in Croatia the party of rights is not responding and in this direction I would suggest something that comes out of the Rules of Procedure. So this thing is clear, that the assembly session, the session ends when all the points of the agenda are fulfilled unless the Croatian Parliament decides otherwise. In order to finally avoid this situation of constant outsmarting around the quorum and proving someone's credibility on this or on the other side and not to be, I would say, the bypass of some, some of the expressions that I've heard from the bench before, so I suggest that for those points that we have the conditions to vote for tonight and then conclude the assembly session so that we don't have every little bit of these unpleasant situations and so that we can stop, I would say, in the Croatian Parliament, give an ugly picture of ourselves. I believe that, in the HSP, this is not right for us, and if we can't reach a deal today, then in the future we can't really come in any more, none of us, even though I'm a major opponent of the obstruction of Parliament's work because I was a participant in a parliamentary crisis which ended quite infamously for, of those who have obstructed. Therefore, you must also find parliamentary majority, I suggest also try to agree with parliamentary circles of opposition that minimum one respect for procedure, try to find a way that we can finally commit ourselves to normal topics in the Croatian Parliament, not to pass the Maritime Code after two, three hours of debate and similar things that we have these days had where we should have much more debate. I therefore propose concretely, and this will depend on our stay tonight in the hall, to complete today's session, that today what we have done should be voted out and concluded by the session, and that by the end of the presidential campaign, when this is all subordinated, and that, when it is concluded that a common language is found until then, and that there are no such situations as I am, I must say, as president of our parliamentary party, and our parties very unpleasant and I would say almost to us absolutely unbearable. Because it is not pleasant to know now that there are no colleagues from the largest parliamentary opposition party, and then come various discards, and I also have to say that regarding the procedure that you as a parliamentary majority have responsibility for the functioning of Parliament and that you must also, in my opinion, try to find a way to overcome a crisis that is difficult to burden us, the voting crisis is, it's pointless for me. So Parliament serves to fight in it, to compete and then to vote in one way and another, but also to literally implement this Rules of Procedure. So I suggest we conclude today's session in a way that we've worked out to vote and try these other points that we haven't done to get into the next assembly session. And I'm saying if that request goes through, then we're gonna stay and vote for what it has, and if it doesn't go through and if you are, you're not in agreement with it, then we're gonna, like, pull out of this session as a club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u23454	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac, Club of Representatives of the SDSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u23455	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, what Djapic said was founded and meaningful and I suggest that I have a proposal for one point. For the point on amendments and additions to the Political Party Act that this point is not voted today because the SDSS Representatives' Club will not only be able to support it in terms of hand-lifting but will not be able to support it by providing quorum. And that is why we ask you, Mr. President and the Presidency, that since the debate should have been followed seriously, since it is a matter of our functioning in the Assembly, us as minority representatives, that no one has consulted us on this initiative, we are carrying the burden of public, public evaluation and public evaluation, and we would be at least correct that question, that point withdraws. Otherwise, we will have further complications of what colleagues now illustrate with cartoons.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u23456	Okay. I think I will suggest that we accept these suggestions to be completed today by the respected representative, Anto Djapic, on behalf of the HSP Club and Mr Milorad Pupovac, on behalf of the SDSS Club. We'll determine the quorum before then. The quorum will be determined in a mixed way. We will also establish it by electronic vote, but also by counting control because we do not have a significant part of the opposition here, but we have three MPs, two MPs and one MP from one part of the opposition that they were last time but they have not been identified, but they have voted on certain amendments. So first we're going to, first please let's switch on the keys to determine. Thank you very much. 86 MPs and MPs have been identified, so we have a quorum. Now please count. 87 plus three so there are 90 MPs and MPs in the hall and that number is relevant. I will now put in accordance with this proposal in accordance with Article 201. The Rules of Procedure of the Proposal shall, in particular, continue until a set agenda is exhausted unless the Assembly decides otherwise. Since we have not exhausted the entire established agenda, the suggestions are that the session be concluded today. The parliament should decide, therefore, that the 11th session should be concluded before the daily agenda is exhausted today. Would you please get involved? You can vote. So you're voting on the proposal, who's to close the session today, 11th? Score. I therefore find that 86 MPs, 86 MPs, voted in line with Article 201 and these proposals, to conclude today's 11th session before the exhausted agenda with one abstention. Okay. Then let's go to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the session, it is on the agenda; - Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Assembly on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the project of the integration of the pipeline "DRUŽBA" and "ADRIA" – Proposers of the Club of Representatives of the HSP; the debate was conducted by the Committee for Law on Development and Reconstruction, and the spatial arrangement and protection of the environment. You received the reports at the session. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. Whether the applicant's representative wishes to further explain the proposal. Honored representative Tonci Tadic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29898	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, I'm sorry I can't welcome the members of the government about this point, and here's the gentleman from the government. Forgive my excitement because the HSP rep club has been waiting for this agenda point for more than a year and a half. We filed it for the first time in the previous session of the Parliament on 5 June 2003, and then we did not welcome the debate before the end of the last term. In this term, we have submitted this item of the agenda on several occasions but for business problems we have finally placed it on the agenda on July 1st, 2004. I believe that today, as regards the management of the Adriatic, there is almost no more important topic on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament than the subject of the economic belt, or the debate on the maritime code. Because at this point in the agenda in our proposal, the conclusion is that all the Croatian economy is summed up based on the fact that we have our Adriatic and that our coasts and our islands live off the sea, living off the sea. That is why it is of strategic importance that a quality debate be held today and the strategic importance of the Croatian Parliament supporting the Croatian Party's proposal for a right to withdraw the Republic of Croatia from the co-operation agreement to implement the integration of the "Society" and "Adria" pipelines. So our club of representatives submitted the following conclusion to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia is withdrawing from the co-operation agreement on the implementation of the pipeline integration project "The Society" and "Adria", within the meaning of Article 10 of the Agreement on "The Society" and "Adria". The second decision to withdraw the Republic of Croatia under this Agreement shall also be notified to the Government of the Republic of Hungary as depositaries of this Agreement within the meaning of Article 8 of this same Agreement. Likewise, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will inform all parties to this agreement. What it's about. On 16 December 2002, a cooperation agreement was signed in Zagreb on the implementation of the project of the integration of the "Society" and "Adria" oil pipelines, so the agreement was signed by the countries Croatia, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Slovakia and Hungary. This agreement was intended to give the green light to the technical integration of existing pipelines into the unique system of "The Company" and "Adria", which extends 3200 km from the Russian Samara to the tanker's port and oil transport terminal in Omislje. You notice here that Croatia is the only maritime country of all these over whose territory oil transports the sea. All members of this Agreement share the same risk when it comes to transporting oil by land but only Croatia carries the risk of transporting oil to the sea. And that's what's keeping Croatia out of this club. Participation in such an agreement is, of course, the fruit of individual interests of individual countries but the same is always the consequence of meeting certain national interests. How to get out of the deal or if we can. It's a typical objection. Paragraph 2 of Article 10 of the Agreement on "The Society" and "Adria", stipulates that each party can withdraw from the sproazum if it announces it 12 months earlier. Which means that with this conclusion, we announce that we will withdraw from the agreement and after 12 months, we are definitely out of it. What's crucial isn't going to lead to a project breach. There's no paying for any tight pens. Because that pipeline integration hasn't even started yet. The more in Ukraine the Supreme Work rejects the project "Society" and "Adria". So there are a whole series of problems in the integration of this pipeline system and Croatia will not be doing any material damage on its part if it comes out of this now. And why we should step forward is more than enough. On the Croatian side, the oil should be transported by Janaf, in Belarus it would be Geometransfnet society, in Hungary's MOL. in Russia, AK transnjef, Slovakia Trans Petrol, and Ukraine Ukrtrans oil. What was problematic, however, at the very beginning is the fact that we didn't actually have a cost benefit analysis in the beginning, therefore, of profit and loss analysis. But if all wins and losses are placed on one pile, it is seen that this agreement and its implementation for Croatia are harmful and, subsequently, given the constitutional provisions, the Parliament has the right to stop such a harmful project. I particularly stress here on behalf of the club HSP that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia therefore confirms the Constitution of Croatia Article 3 that the preservation of the nature of the human environment is among the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia and the basis for interpreting the Constitution. Article 69 states that the state provides conditions for a healthy environment and that each person is required, as part of his powers and activities, to pay particular attention to the protection of health, people, nature and the human environment, and so do we ladies and gentlemen of the representatives. Article 52 to remind you once again of the Constitution, determines that the sea, seashore, islands and waters are natural treasures of particular cultural historical economic and ecological significance which the law stipulates to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia and that they have its special protection. This should therefore be devoted, and this should be done when discussing this agreement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The constitution, however, allows for entrepreneurial freedoms and ownership rights to be severely restricted by law, so the Parliament's decision to protect Croatia's interests and security, and to protect nature, human environment and human health. So do we act responsibly if we stick to the Constitution? We simply have to vote in favour of breaking out of "The Society" and "Adria", i.e. those who really want to adhere to the Constitution will certainly vote in favour of the HSP's proposal for an exit from "The Society" and "Adria". The signing of this agreement, of course, has attracted great public attention and this is because of the risks ahead of this. The materials we've submitted to you are quite extensive and I'm not going to read it here as a whole, but I'm going to single out only the most important parts to make it really clear to you what problem this really is. So, first of all, it's about the dangers of the haemarium and the sinking of the tankers in the Adriatic. The Adriatic Sea is a shallow sea with very slow changes in electricity. It takes a little less than 10 years to change seawater in the Adriatic, sea currents. So, if there's an oil spill, we won't be in a situation like the Nahodka case on the coasts of Japan, or Exon Valdez, along Alaska or Prestige along the Spanish coast. There were oceans everywhere with strong ocean currents. This is a shallow and closed sea, and that's why every pollution that's dropped into it takes 10 years to get out by changing the current. We can talk, of course, about how damage may be sued, but nothing, really nothing could make up for the image, the damaged image of Croatian tourism, nothing could make up for the image of Croatian fishing. Therefore, Croatian fishing and Croatian tourism are based on the preserved environment and on the clean sea. The sinking of a tanker, no matter how much we may have managed to sue him, will never compensate for the damage that would have been done to our tourist economy and our fishing industry. Of course, there's also talk of a profit from this pipeline "The Society" and "Adria". So this pipeline is projected to grow year after year by year by capacity, so at the beginning of 5 million tons of oil a year, then 10, then 15 million tons a year. What is interesting is that in the beginning, the fixed amount of JANAF can earn by transporting a ton of oil to 100 kilometers and when all of this is summed up, it turns out that Croatia, i.e. JANAF, will earn an annual maximum of $80 million gross income. However, the profit from all of this is very low. So, I repeat, the tariff is set at 64 American cents per tonne of oil per 100 kilometers. As a result, the JANAF Adriatic oil pipeline should make an annual income of 50 million at the beginning of up to $80 million at the end, that is gross income. And the net profit is much less. The total income of JANAF in 2003 was $34m, and the profit was 4.2m. Which means the profit is approximately always about 8 times smaller. Which means if the total income from this project is 80 million dollars in gross income, then it's a little over $10 million. If that's the reason for all of this, if that $10 million is pure to get a reason to engage in this kind of dangerous project, then we in HSP suggest that the same one should be separated for JANAF in the state budget 10 million dollars and that we solve this problem. If they really miss that $10 million profit. Let's give them 10 million dollars and let them stop jeopardizing the Adriatic with these unsuspecting and dangerous projects. What I would also have to mention here is the fact that it is, and that is the main objection to all those who are trying to cloud the situation here. It is constantly said that the Republic of Croatia can give up on it, but in that case oil will go to Trieste. We've heard that in a series of occasions, from no one but the current President of the Republic himself. That, ladies and gentlemen, is notorious nonsense for a number of reasons. First of all, to the Trieste tube, namely, but it doesn't exist at all. So, from Omis to Trieste, there's no pipe. She's got nothing to go with. She has yet to be built there. Second, from Trieste to the interior, the TAL Transalaba pipeline, which was leased tens of years in advance, leads. Therefore, even if we built a pipe to get there through TAL, oil could not be exported but possibly imported into Central Europe. And as third and key, the Trstian port, ladies and gentlemen, is more than twice as shallow as the Port of Omis. Which basically means, when you look at it on tables, that the Trstian port allows ships of 60,000 tonnes, and the Omisale port allows large super tanks of more than 250 thousand tonnes that are in that case costable for overseas oil transport. Why would someone export oil through Trieste if it doesn't achieve the right price of transport through the Atlantic? Maybe they'll export to the Mediterranean? I don't just know who because of Trieste's ability to export it by pipeline to Central Europe, and it certainly won't go to North Africa. These are route tankers, which are clearly seen here, and it appears that all the tanker routes in the Mediterranean are actually routed to a terminal in Omislje, Koper and Trieste oil from North Africa. I've never heard of anyone being able to export oil from Trieste to North Africa. So, in Libya, for example. It's just that we here are actually facing the risk of transporting oil exclusively from Omis and everything else is actually, as the older lawyers would say, confuciating, therefore, bringing confusion into a very clear picture. What's crucial about Omis is how he can take super tankers, or "very big cross-carriers" we're not dealing with 60 thousand tons of tankers, but we're going to be dealing with far larger ships from 250 to 400 thousand tons, and the haemarium of one of those ships is going to be, believe me, very interesting. Given the fact that it takes us 10 years to naturally change the sea in the Adriatic. For those 10 years, ladies and gentlemen, you can forget about tourism in the Adriatic and fisheries, or that you can sell anything from maricculture or from our fisheries. The comparisons are, when we're talking about the net profit of a $10 million JANAF, I'd like to compare it to the annual profit from exporting a fish that is $163 million, and billions of tourism are hard to talk about. So, what did HSP do next to this? Last year for St. Antu, so last year, for 13.6 last year, thank the Saint Anti, we were able to convince the MPs in this House to accept our proposal for a conclusion on the launch of an international diplomatic initiative to declare the Adriatic particularly sensitive marine area in accordance with the Marpal Convention. I'm glad it's adopted, I'm glad that's what it's all about. We in HSP are unusually happy that the Norwegian Government, who has great experience in including the Norwegian institutes as Nansin Institute, has been involved in supporting the development of such a project. We are pleased that the Croatian government and its ministries, in particular the protection of the environment, are in contact with this and we hold that the declaration of the Adriatic as a particularly sensitive marine area would be finally the right to defend such dangerous projects as "The Society and "Adria". By the way, speaking of a particularly sensitive sea area, this must, of course, be the fruit of consensus with the neighbours. So I'm really interested in me and my colleagues in HSP as well as how it's possible that the government, formerly and presently who has claimed that we can't declare an economic belt for fear of Italy, "deadly cold" pushes a project like this without thinking about what Italy is going to say about this amount of ballast water with tankers and this kind of risk of having a tanker. Now suddenly, the opinion of Italy and Slovenia doesn't matter. I think it's very important. I mentioned the question here of the dangers of ballast water, but it should also be mentioned how ballast waters have shown themselves more risky in all cases of major oil transport. The environmental impact study that was done about it speaks very clearly. Of course, if you know what the study says, it is not difficult to understand why the study was suddenly declared a military secret, why the study is not spoken enough in public or why the data from the study itself is hidden. But we managed to get our channels to the study itself. I have to say that this study is saying something really terrible, which is that the balasic waters of tankers can be transmitted by cholera and hepatitis viruses, to carry microorganisms from one end of the world through the balasic waters of the tankers. That the Black Sea microorganisms destroyed the system of large lakes and vice versa. That ballast waters have disrupted the ecological systems of coastal waters of many countries that receive tankers to export oil. So these are all problems that will be welcomed by Croatia. This must not be underestimated in the way the Janafa administration does, so yes, balasic waters exist now in the Adriatic. No, ladies and gentlemen, by launching the project "The Company" and "Adria" the amount of ballast water in the Adriatic will double. And not just any ballast water. I've already shown this map here that shows, this map that shows the direction of the tanker routes in the Adriatic. It's one thing when balasic waters arrive from the north coast of Africa, because it's all a expensive Mediterranean pool with the same biological system. However, if oil arrives from North or South America, it is a change because we are bringing it into our Adriatic until then completely unknown species that can be harmful to Croatia, not to mention that we can repeat what happened in the countries of South America when cholera was introduced into them. I think the North Adriatic really doesn't need an epidemic of cholera. Why the balus water? For those of you who don't know that between you colleagues and colleagues, it's that the tanker can't sail empty. A tanker who wants to sail to the Omis terminal or any other terminal to board oil there must board for his stability for at least 30% of his seawater volume. This seawater is taken at the landing site of that oil. Once that oil, that water was shrinking directly for oil tanks, today there are, I hope that one of us will come as separate balasic tanks, but in any case we bring foreign microorganisms. It is claimed that it is possible to go to rebalasts, so on the exchange of ballast waters. But by rebalting in navigation, you change up to 90% of contaminated water, which basically means if you have a 300 thousand-ton tanker, that a third of it is a loaded sea, that's 30,000 tons, that's 90, that's 100 thousand tons, and that's 10% of it, that's what's left of it, that you're throwing out uncleaned still makes 10,000 tons of uncleaned contaminated ballast water. So the risk is definitely high and besides, this rebalating method costs about 4 cents per tonne of ballast and many unconscious captains avoid it. What's startling to us in HSP is the fact that it announces rebalancing already at Palagrega to save people rebalancing on Otrand where the sea is restless. However, we believe that this is more than risky and unserious. We believe that, for these reasons, simply the project "The Company" and "Adria" must not be allowed even if we ignore the risk of a terrorist attack on a tanker, a harrier, an oil spill and everything else. It is claimed that it is possible to build a facility on land itself. However, the reconstruction of an existing ballast water reception facility which is not such a range that I repeat is not such a range, it is not possible to implement that reconstruction within a short period of three years, and the investment is 50 to 100 million dollars with very questionable efficiency. When all this is compared to the planned clean profit of $10 million a year at the maximum oil flow, then a normal man wonders who's going to pay for it all together. So we're paying for something that's extremely inconclusive and carries with it the terrible risks of spreading the infection and destroying the eco-system and polluting the Adriatic with oil. So, when we take all this into account, it is crystal clear that in this case there has been a serious failure by "Janafa" and by the Croatian government that it is not satisfied with a series of necessary preconditions for the successful and Croatia safe implementation of this agreement and therefore the Croatian Party of Rights and the Club of HSP representatives suggest that the project "Society" and "Adria" be abandoned. What we are particularly pleased about is that our initiative has received great support from many ecological associations, that the surplus declaration was signed for St Nicholas on Visa and what I personally and my colleagues in the club is startled by the fact that the current president of the Republic, who has been supporting the Society and Adria for years, tried to smuggle in there as an environmentalist. So, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSP to support the proposal of the Croatian Parliament's conclusion on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Agreement "The Society" and "Adria". Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29899	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our work today is being followed by students and high school students from Čakovec, so let's welcome them. ... Reporters of the Committee on Economy, Development and Reconstruction, Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection, Rapporteur, Honored Representative Marko Širac, please welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29900	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament at the 13th session held on 1 October 2004 discussed the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the co-operation agreement on the implementation of the project of the integration of the company's pipeline and "Adria", which was submitted by the Croatian Party's Representatives' Club of Law by the Act of 1 July 2004. The Committee considered this measure in question as an interested working body pursuant to Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In principle, it was stressed that the proposal was prematurely submitted, with an assessment that there were no conditions for discussion and decision-making before the legal process of assessing the environmental impact of the planned project was implemented. A representative of the Ministry of Protection, the environment, spatial planning and construction was informed by the Committee during a very demanding post-uptake of environmental impact assessment. In the debate, it was proposed that a representative of the Sibenik-Knin and Split-Dalmatia counties be appointed to the study assessment committee other than the representatives of the Primorje-Gorski County. The Committee concluded that it would be actively involved in the discussion of the environmental impact study of this project at the time of inclusion of public insight. After the debate, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the next conclusion. Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the project of the integration of the pipeline "The Society" and "Adria". Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29901	Thank you. Prime Minister, Secretary of State Vladimir Vrankovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29902	Thank you, Mr. President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, MPs and MPs. With all due respect to the proposed members of the Croatian Party's right and respecting their concern for the protection of the Adriatic, I think we all share the same same care and that, that we are ready to respect this ultimate decision, is the ultimate goal of protecting the Adriatic as such. In addition to all the analyses, meaning by respecting all the legal conditions, we have opinions as we have suggested to the Parliament that this initiative is premature, meaning that we must pass through respect for all democratic procedures, means that we should carry out quality professional rescribing, because for this short period of time, my colleague Tadic here presented some of the professional elements of this project, I do not think that they are sufficient to carry out a comprehensive review and analysis of the project in question. The project is so an analysis of the project is under way. You know for a fact that the environmental impact study is over, that it's preparing for a public debate. We'll have plenty of space and time to process this project from all aspects. Normally only after such a debate has been held, respecting all the facts and concerns of the final decision, will it be the one that will guarantee the future of our Adriatic and its management. Thank you for your attention, I wouldn't engage in details, technical details, because at this point I don't think it's a place or a time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29903	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. HSS representative's club Zlatko Tomcic, no. The club loses its word. National Minority Representatives' Club, respected Zdenka Chuhnil. She's gone. The Advocacy Club is losing its word. The club of HSP MPs, the respected representative of Slaven Letica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29904	Honored President Shakespeare, I've interrupted the Dalmatian tourer in fact to come to this debate. It's a sad fact that people don't care at all. This is about one big problem. In the name of the club, I will approach him from the perspective of Croatians' relationship to the sea. As far as left parties are concerned, you can see the attitude of the Croats to the sea, they are not there. There is an anthological picture of the arrival of Croats to the sea showing Croats in the furs of horses, coming and staring at the sea as the people say as a calf in a colorful door. Unfortunately, this relationship between the Croats to the sea, and we have heard the anger and concern of perhaps the only remaining seaman in this House of Mr. Tonci Tadic, so he spoke furiously, I have the privilege of speaking incessantly. And I'm going to talk about a few points of this Croatian-to-sea relationship that we all have to worry about together. When the Croatian Constitution is written about it, it can be witnessed by the Honorable President of our Parliament, then it is in an otherwise very valuable article, which lists the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia, and the Croatian Constitution has at least two articles that honor those who wrote the text. The first article contains basic values or values and the Croatian Constitutional Order. The second is which lists the basic natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. There's a forgotten sea in the list. Since the constitutional commission was a fisherman from my village, Ivan Vela, then at lunch organised by the president, the first president of the Croatian government Dr. Franjo Tudjman sat with him and then told him as he came from the Partizan region he said, Mr. President I thought you were a much more foolish man, and I see that you are a smart man saying, and you included us fishermen in the constitutional commission, but you forgot the sea, so I ask you to join the sea in the Croatian Constitution. And so the sea was found in the Croatian Constitution. Afterwards, we discussed the establishment of the Ministry of the Sea, which would be based in Split or Dubrovnik or perhaps in Rijeka because the industrialization does not take care of the sea as a natural resource destroy the highest part of the Adriatic coast. When it comes to the sea, so-called. the maritime orientation or maritime orientation of the Croatian people and Croatian authorities has always been a great phrase. These days we were in the Croatian Squares, so not only is Croatia's shipbuilding in a deep crisis, but the shipbuilders are aware that they have nothing to carry anymore, because nothing is produced in Croatia. I'm going to say a few points of that Croatian contempt for the sea on several examples. The first anthological example is the Drnovšek-Racan agreement, allegedly concluded in a sauna, where Slovenians are given the whole of Vala. The agreement was written in the code system and because of the laziness of the former president of the coalition government who probably didn't even bother to put it in geographical terms, Slovenians today are looking as a minimum for what there is no doubt that our grandchildren and great-grandsons will condemn it as one monstrous move. The second is the delimitation code, in my immediate vicinity, at Kleek's. 666 years of the country, which was owned by Croatia, were owners of Ponte, as said by Dubrovnik or Punta, as we say or as in the Croatian literary language of Cape Kleka, one small nose of Klek with two small skis. One is called Škojic says Škojic Mali. The Croatian party negotiator was Zeljko Dobranovic, otherwise a poor man, however uneducated for the negotiations. After that in 1999, Dubrovnik experts made a brilliant study, they are worth mentioning here in the Croatian Assembly: Stjepan Čosić, Niko Kapatic, Pero Ljubic, Nenad Vekarić "Croatian border on Klek", which I checked, the study was delivered to all parliamentary representatives of the old band. They probably all put her in a drawer somewhere because there was never a discussion about her. The problem is with this demarcation, not only that Bosnia and Herzegovina for the first time in 666 years except for the period of short Ottoman occupation gets the nose of Ponta, Punta or Rt Klek but also gets what the Slovenians were after. Part of the Croatian territorial sea, and the seaman and I were down there, and we saw an American warship, I think it's a frigate, and it's quite possible to build an American warport there in Kleek. The third example is the demarcation in the Bay of Bokoctor. Otherwise, in 2002, the year was bad luck for the coalition government as it was in that year, and this vicious Security Service Act was passed and the Security Procedure on the basis of which Helena Pugliz was tortured, and most of these problems were made that year. So not only is half of Bokokotor Bay left to neighbouring Montenegro and Serbia, where in half of the Croatian sea and this territorial sea are patrolled by ships with mixed crews, and otherwise the centuries-old Croatian space of Ostrog and Prevlaka is dedicated to Croatians for temporary management. I mentioned Željko Dobranovic as a good man, he was also the first head of Stipe Mesic's office to have nothing to do with this ignorance of the separation at sea. So today we are discussing an agreement, and the government is funding such a piddian or piatski that it will wait to see what studies will be, and the study by law and by weak Croatian customs is being financed by one who is interested in the positive findings of these studies. I'm usually a professor at the Medical School and students from the Hippocrates' age to this day have to respect their professors. So for now, I got an unpublished study, part of a study of public health damage to the project. So this isn't about waiting for something. This is about the lost "good well", Cain kept throwing something earlier as if this HSP initiative were going towards, against the interest of Kvarner or the interest of Istria. It's a study that's in our common interest and yours. The annual profit of this project, at the beginning of 5 million tonnes of Russian oil exported through Omis and rich in sulfur in the middle of 15 million tonnes and in the foreseeable future 30 million tonnes will destroy the "good well" of the entire catering industry and tourism in the wider area. Dr. Tonci Tadic was pretty angry so he didn't show what it was really about. The direction of the tankers, their loads and ballast waters is changing. I'm not saying this because I know you all in this assembly know what this is about, and he mentioned it a little bit. Ballast water as well as all foreigners in Croatian for the past few years are usually a source of trouble. So far, tankers have come in with oil and then vacuumed, vacuumed Croatian waters, and some fecal, port and other waters and taken harmful ingredients somewhere else. Now the tankers of 100, 200 and 400 thousand tonnes will take the oil from Omis and will bring ballast waters from Calcutta where I was, from Montevide and from other world ports. A day in ballast waters travels 10,000 organisms. Most of them reinforced on the road. Most of them are rebalt on open seas, but most of them are coming to the Adriatic. Mr. Luka Bebić knows that there are already species of fish, crabs, dangerous algae and others in the Neretva area and in my area that none of us remember, nor do they remember people's memories. Therefore, gentlemen, dear, this is about too serious a problem. The Croatians' relationship to the sea. That relationship isn't so banal. So we can say the next thing. There is no dispute; 10 million dollars a year will be lost in a "good well" one major tourist company in Istria and Kvarner. In 1976, I personally fought a dune in Krk. In a way, when a man is 20 years old, the logical thing is that he's a little left-handed, green and feminist-oriented. But at that time, of course, there was a whole orientation of the communist order towards the development of a base of heavy industry to which the upgrade would be based. The first lecture I heard from my later friend, Dr. Mark Happy was about the importance of the upgrade and the heavy industry, so I said that's not exactly what I thought was a smart model of development. So today we are facing the problem of setting ourselves up for this project. There's his alternative, and that's the other Jadran company. Why the Adriana Company in the first place? Because this society is like the Pere Crescent Society, and that's kind of cute. And Adria, in any case, the Slovenians took that concept into their air carriers, so that we no longer have symbolic ownership of the Adriatic. So what can be done? It is a very simple thing, and I call first and foremost the parliamentary representatives of the order, and the ranks of all parties who are from Slavonia, which seem to be increasingly dear to the Adriatic, and who are not afraid of the Adriatic and Dalmatia that are supposed to be dear to the Adriatic, as well as to the seaman Dr. Tonci Tadic. What can be done? Not to deviate from the delivery of 5 and even 15 million tonnes of oil, but to get that oil to Croatian refineries, in Sisak and Rijeka that need to be modernised technologically and supply and oil, then provide new jobs and ensure the protection of the Adriatic. Therefore, such an approach to this problem, and then final derivatives are carried out by railways that we also advocate by modernising railways, tanks and small tankers that are no longer an ecological hazard. So, I'll conclude, please give some attention to this subject. POA, VOA, spies, stalking, fighting, Ustasha, Chetniks, Partisans, there's no such thing as luck. That's where the grass doesn't grow or has a future. And if we make this mistake, God will punish us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29905	Thank you. IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29906	Dear Mr. President, esteemed secretary of state, esteemed gentlemen of the council! I think it's clear to all of us that Russian oil will come to the Adriatic. The only question is whether it will be Krk, whether it will be Trieste or Kopar and for all of us it is also clear that the entire Adriatic swimming pool is deindustrialised. For example, a torpedo is missing in Rijeka, Victor Lenac is still holding on, but "Harter", "Croatialine", a rope factory, Ricardo Bencic, etc. One word, all that industry that marked the creation of this work. Life in Rijeka remains "May 3rd" but it is only thanks to the huge touch from the state budget and refinery of the classical industry. Everything else went to the coat. Take a look at coastal-goran tourism and Dalmatian tourism. You're losing yourself to a loser. Liburnia, cricvenic hotels, halludovo. The only bright spot is the "Jadranka" on Losinj and the good Rab now "Imperial" has also begun to recover. I want to say this. Without industry, Croatia will not survive, clearly ecologically. It would be the worst if Croatia would start selling its clean air quotas in a way that nothing is done here and elsewhere at the expense of Croatia is starting their development. Gentlemen, one River is becoming more and more coastal and it's time to change it for generations to come, for young people who have the age these girls and boys have on this gallery. Croatia must somehow return to the industry. One who thinks he can live only two months of tourism and clearly while serving, I think he's wrong. Croatia needs representative investments in other branches, not only tourism, although few real stakeholders have shown interest in Croatian tourism. The exception is apartments that are clearly evil in themselves. And there's so much to think about, "Society" and "Adri." Is that one of the development options of our Primor now? Clearly, everyone can dispute or represent it is legitimate, but both must accept a minimum of democracy and that is that tomorrow when it is called and I hope that the referendum in the Primorian-Gorski County will accept the results of this referendum. The IDS advocates this principle. So, we are against this one-way approach to ban "the Society" and "Adria" but we are against the public to impose obligations on Krk or rather to the entire Primorje-Gorski County. I repeat, so once again, IDS stands for the referendum here. Secondly, we advocate the publication of an impact study on the environment of the Adria Society project. That study was heard we were favourable to investors, perhaps because they ordered it. She says, the first risk of pollution is small and that overrated risks are deliberately exaggerated by what Mr. Tonci Tadic also said. There are about 600 tankers in the Adriatic every year. There are 60 tankers in the Croatian part of the Adriatic. So 395 tankers enter Trieste, in Venice about 120 tankers, on Krk I said 60 and "The Company" and "Adria" or with the Adria Society would sail another 30 tankers, 30 tankers per number. In 10 years, JANAF would make about 273 U.S. dollars and the state about 46 million dollars. In 25 years of JANAF's work through Omisalj, a thousand 560 tankers have loaded 130 million tons of oil without any incident being reported. I repeat, a thousand 560 tankers have passed through Krk. So, from ten years of exporting Russian oil through Omis, JANAF would generate income of 273 million US dollars, state and local self-government of some 46 million dollars, JANAF suppliers of 85 million dollars, banks on behalf of interest 18 million dollars and the port of Rijeka of some symbolic million dollars. The probability of haiarium is low. I said, either the Russian oil on Krk or Trieste, I don't know exactly, Copper or anywhere else. We won't accept it. The Slovenians or Italians will accept it, and that's the point. And that too, gentlemen should be aware. They will certainly not reject the possibility of, say, incomeing thirty, twenty or fifty million dollars a year, and then reaching another alternative gas or oil leg. In these 200 people will send their people from their shipyards and into their shipyards... etc. Our citizens will leave Pula or Rijeka or Victor Lentz. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Clearly, what the citizens want I'll once again say should be checked at the referendum. We all talk and talk before from Mr. Letica at the Rijeka port. It used to be the first Adriatic port. Now she left the place to Trieste, Copra, etc. If I say that by 1954. The digger didn't have any strings on the overseas ships. I said it all. If I say that by the 1960s, they didn't have a single silo, I said it all. If I say that by the mid-70s, Kopar wasn't connected to the Divac, I said it all the same. If I say that the work has been taught by the Rijeka port I have said everything and today Koper overloads three or more times from the Rijeka port and Rijeka teaches them the job. Are we all in favor of that Rijeka port then? I guess so. Do overseas ships come to Rijeka? Yeah. Is there a problem with ballast water? Yeah. In some areas, for example, the Venice Lagoon, Kopra, Trieste, already exist foreign organisms, as well as those in the Neretva Valley, as Mr Letica spoke of. The risk may be increased by the arrival of more tankers in Krk, but this should not occur because tankers should change ballast water before entering the Adriatic, but minimal risks exist. About six and a half million tons of ballast water a year is released in the Adriatic, so it is clear that there are organisms in coastal areas that were not or lived there twenty or thirty years ago. But precisely because the public is sensitive to this problem, a referendum should be called, understandably not only in Krk but in the entire Primorje-Gorski County and each side should then defend their position. I'm surprised we're never ready to call a referendum to do something. I don't know, start something or something. For example, those refineries Mr. Letica spoke of. The study also says that JANAF is not a restriction on tourism. That's just as clear to everyone. If it were to happen, gentlemen, clearly it would be terrible. The damage would be huge. The loss for Croatia wherever, whatever part of the Adriatic would happen would be irreparable. But if we don't have replacement jobs outside tourism, that ecocid would endanger the economic base of the entire Republic of Croatia. We remember what social growth was in the wake of NATO's attack on SRJ Yugoslavia in the year 99, when the entire economy, not only tourism, was ruined. In tourism, more people couldn't work and other people couldn't hire them. Therefore, it is clear that responsibility for itself must not be taken over in this particular case by politics but by citizens of that area in the referendum. Somewhere three years ago, I was in Israel in Eilat, their most diverse resort on the Red Sea, where there is no hotel in which over $100 million was not invested. A man can't describe it. The Israelites are about 4 - 5 miles [4 - 5 miles] wide and some 20 miles [20 miles] of sea. It's all loaded with army. On the other hand, Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, if I'm not mistaken. And there at those 6, 7 miles of width are two ports, two terminals, military as in the story and yet it is the most popular Israeli tourist center. Clearly, Croatia does not need this by avoiding it, Mr Tadic. However, we must understand that we cannot live under a glass bell and this will best be confirmed by all those workers of Torpedo, Hartera, I don't know, Victor Lenco who are working in Trieste or Slovenian shipyards today. It is therefore necessary to find some modus, some sustainable development, but absolutely, absolutely, if citizens are against the Adrie Society then they will also be IDS. But before that, we should think about it, let's talk to the captains of the ships, talk to the port workers who have less and less to do, or a little work. Let him, I don't know, talk to Lance's employees who know he'll be out of a job and who have to think about going to Italy or somewhere else to feed the family. Whoever has a safe job in some administration, the bank, the school is against it, but residents of the Primorje-Gorskin County have to wonder and that's what I think is the most important thing we need to talk about. In 2001, the country had fewer residents per census than in 91. Only Istria and the city of Zagreb have a slightly higher population according to the 2001 census of 91. And then we come to the fact that only Zagreb and the County of Istria have a slightly larger gross product than the Croatian average and everything else is really, really modest with the fact that all the banking industry is concentrated here in Zagreb, that here all the large companies of the Croatian forests, INE, HEP etc., INE where I read this morning, the directors are being distributed the severances of a million-and-a-half kuna. Which is incomprehensible and unnatural and which should not be sanctioned but prevented. It still means the end! Either the capital will come to Croatia or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will follow that capital into the world. And now we have to, now we have to ask ourselves what to choose at this point. The rose came fortunately from Canada to Croatia, and this is a good example to be welcomed. President Mesic, meaning to end it because in this direction all these messages are going, has offered something, something with this Society of Adria, perhaps the company Adria is not a good offer but should not, under quotes, “pulse”. Finally, let the honored gentlemen do so to the citizens of the referendum. And with that point, the IDS will try to complete the conclusions of the HSP Club. Letica, Mr. Letica was surprised that no one is speaking from the left, but he is also right that our traffickers are not working, to say, Croatia, quote, nothing is doing, nothing is transporting. This is the point, Croatia becomes gentlemen of the deindustrialized country and if we don't return to some production then all of us and this country are ill-written.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29907	Thank you. Before that, at 11 o'clock in the “Janka Draskovica” hall, (202), now at 11 o'clock, the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr. Rade Ivas, has scheduled a meeting of the Committee on Justice and I ask the representatives and representatives to be at the meeting. 11 o'clock. On behalf of the promoter, the honourable representative of Slaven Letica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29908	Honored President Shakespeare, big and good thing, things are now completely driven to crystalline and clear attitudes like in the relationship between cowboys and Indians. IDS and Damir Cain are for the Adria Society, there is no longer any dispute. As far as I'm concerned, as a professional macroeconomicist, I'm going to tell you that yearly, like this, annual ballast water damage in America is $138 billion, $138 billion, $138 billion, $138 billion. Thus, compared to these 10 million dollars that will eventually earn Croatia, i.e. JANAF from transporting oil are certainly damages over $100 million, only the loss of good in the area. As far as this other issue of maritime status, onion, is concerned, a serious debate in the Assembly should be opened, but this is not the subject of today's debate. Today we are only discussing the Adriatic Society, and this is the proposal for HSP Croatia to step out of this company, Adria. Otherwise the situation in the ports is catastrophic, we were with the management of the port of Ploče, which is precisely some of the decisions of our competent ministry and a whole series of other bad legal regulations brought also into a very difficult position. Although it's actually the only one now, as far as we can see, the port along the river has a serious and undisputed development perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29909	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29910	Apparently, Mr. Letica is running his campaign at the Adri Society. However, the IDS advocates that everyone, everyone, in the Republic of Croatia hires that our people do not have to go to Italy [[Agreement: Correction Mr. Kaja's correction!]] So the false assumption was that IDS is for, don't yell, don't yell! [[Agreement: Correction!]] IDS is like I said 10 times for the referendum at the Adri Society, for, against. [[Intruder: No IDS is, correcting an incorrect quote!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29911	Thank you! Thank you! It's not a correction, it's a polemic, it's... Rules of Procedure, you're an old vet, a veteran. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Vice-President Luka Bebic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29912	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community and its Club discussed the proposed proposal seriously and responsibly, as well as the government's response. What I would like to say at first is that, on the basis of one or two discussions, no matter how serious, based, they cannot be drawn far-reaching conclusions. I think that the arguments put forward here point to a serious hour of reflection on this proposal suggest that there is no hasty and insufficiently justified way of making long-term measures and long-term decisions. He mentioned Mr Tadic in his opening statement that the consequences of the eye can be derived from possible handicrafts and similar in the transport of crude oil are reflected on the entire aquarium. So what we are talking about Croatia about Krk is possible consequences for the entire Adriatic and even Mediterranean parts of the sea. The consequences are in Italy. Slovenia, the consequences are in Albania, the consequences are in Yugoslavia or Serbia-Montenegro. BiH, too. And if you speak partial effects and consequences are not partial but they are wider. The Adriatic sea could almost be said closed sea, it takes a lot of time to change through the Atlantic door the extraordinary current of sea quantities, the mass of the sea. And some have mentioned that in certain ports that are open to the oceans and not only are they closed we are part of a closed Mediterranean sea. So, the closed sea, and we're still stuck in the Adriatic. I was in Bombay traveling from Bombing Port to that island together with Mr. Djapic and some other MPs here, and we sailed through the blizzard it's not the sea, it can be considered the sea because around all the seas until the got man sees it, but it's not the sea, it's almost impossible for a man to fail through that blizzard but to stay at the top. That's terrible. And especially in one closed sea when something like that happened. We don't have enough argumentative multidisciplinaryly obvious consequences. From all aspects, and we don't have to wait for it. We have a report by Janaf of 7 months 2004 on the environmental consequences, however, we have addressed other institutions. And appraisal institutions and things like that that need to be answered. But let's take it from us that we reject the Company and Adria agreement. And accept Slovenia or Italy. Which is the consequence. If we have previously found that the consequences are more equal in the entire Adriatic aquarium, then the question arises if there is not one common position and agreement on the protection of the Adriatic as a whole as a whole, then the question is why Croatia would give up something that would make another country anyway. That's the question. There were some ideas that this as a reroute will not be directed to Krk but to Trieste but Trieste is a shallow bay, can't come, if they come again it's part of ours, again they sail along Istria, they sail along our islands, and we have countless so to say islands. We have a lot of reefs we have a lot of potential hazards for hawari. And especially what I would like to especially highlight these balus waters. When we talked about it two years ago, that's what I was also talking about in the Parliament here when I was an opposition representative. Something to be seen voluntarily, which is not to be followed, scientificly, which are all the consequences. And none of the decisions of long-term significance should be made without considering all the circumstances and facts and any analysis of the possible scientific knowledge and other politicians. And political ones are in the way our neighbors will behave. Do they have such responsibilities before future generations but it also says that the damages that could occur in the Adriatic as a result of the Hawari are the most affected by Croatia. Because it has the most divorced coast, tourism that can potentially mean one of Croatia's greatest swings and engine of development. And there wasn't always every evil for evil, if Yugoslavia very little industrial capacitte built on our shores it meant no people had jobs going to other countries, to Germany in America and so on. But we got and left and eventually saved the clear Adriatic Sea, we can plan to develop tourism we can plan everything that goes with it. Because our bay is the one closest to the centre of Europe. So I think no matter what our current employment problems are, about the development of the industry at all, we need to look at the problem as a whole. And we cannot easily let small interests or limited interests ruin Croatia's largest resoros. It's something we can't figure out ourselves how many goths the people have chosen us, how much we have to represent the born voters such a burden of decision because of narrow or under-reviewed at least, we can't do without a good and versatile analysis of all the elements that can affect the final decision. Personally, I mean, personally, I'm not saying this on behalf of the club right now, but as an individual, I wouldn't risk anything that would ruin what our grandfathers and great-grandfathers were jealous of for centuries and maybe more. That in ours, our eco-system of seas, the coastal, the submarine, is experiencing old-fashioned changes. We have capable people in our institutes who study the sea and the state of the sea. And almost daily changes can be seen. The claim that so far there have been no major handouts, no guarantee there will be none. The disruption of large numbers of ships loaded with large amounts of oil increases the risk every day. And if one part of that oil that came from Russia, Siberia, or I don't know from where, were to be processed in our refineries still distributed, it would compensate and profit, it would increase profits because then we would go with the import of high-processing products, so even bigger accumulations, more opportunities to earn. So these are all elements to be taken care of. We have no right to any of us, no matter how easily you break your knee like this. I, on behalf of the HDZ, can say that we should wait, respecting everything we've heard. Nothing's happened yet, which could be irrevocably bad. I'm afraid that a superficial debate might give us all the impression that we haven't had enough arguments and thoughtfully made the key decisions for the development of Croatia. And so I ask all the representatives of this House, regardless of the parties, to wait and see that the profession, scientists, institutes, political talks with our neighbours. Because if they, without any limit of interest, are going to do what they might do and lead us into a difficult situation, because if a tanker who goes to Trieste is going to experience a harri somewhere on that road from, say, Pula to Trieste, what do we get? It's the same problem as going to our port. And well, it's shallow and I can't get there with great capacity, but that's what they're telling us to do serious talks about the entire Adriatic eco-system, that it's all our common sea, that we talk to Italy, that we talk to Slovenia, that we talk to Albania and Greece. And Corfu is in the Adriatic Sea, so to speak. Not to say so, but to the entrance to the Adriatic Sea. So, in my opinion and in our opinion, let's say that the government here says that the study, that the study that the Minister of Environmental Protection will appoint will be an appropriate circle of experts and scientists and that the project and the realization or refusal of the project should be carried out only after the completion of the study evaluation procedure, I think that is reasonable. That we are not losing anything in the meantime, that we will not easily engage in any decision-making and that we will seriously and with responsibility as present representatives of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament at least demonstrate one of our knowledge of it, of responsibility and that we cannot make and burden the future generations with some of our hasty, under-study or small or questionable interests that we can have around, let's say, when we accept. The colleagues who spoke of small, small profits can be compensated multiplely in some other areas. I don't think it's something that's going on and that without it, like we couldn't develop. All of this needs to be harmonised, all of this needs to be kind of confronted with arguments, and then, finally, in the Croatian Parliament, in my opinion, a consensus should be reached on this issue. Consensus, it's such a big problem that we can't vote on it. But we need to wait very responsibly and seriously for one more time and then finally decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29913	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, Mr. Boras, scheduled a meeting of the Committee at 12 o'clock at Stjepan Radic's Hall, 133. I ask the members of the Legislative Committee to respond to this call. So 12 o'clock at Stjepan Radic's Hall. On behalf of the promoter, Honored Representative Miroslav Rožić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29914	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Although my colleague Letica called our club member and one of the promoters of this agenda point, Mr. Tonci Tadić was probably a marine man, he probably did it in ignorance, but it came out that actually the sea man was the term that the Croatian people used for the Mediterranean bear, otherwise the species of animal that died out in the Mediterranean, and her last dwellings were in the Adriatic Sea in the Blue Cave on Bisevo and on some more caves on the island of Vis. So in order not to happen with Tonci Tadic and with this proposal for an agreement, what really happened with the seaman, I ask you to pay attention and vote for our proposal to withdraw the Republic of Croatia from this truly harmful agreement not only for the seamen, not just for the Adriatic Sea, not only for Croatia, but also for the whole region of the Mediterranean Sea, but also for the Adriatic Sea. But what is most important to us? He said in his speech and Mr. Caine, trying to defend indefensiblely, in fact that it is a miracle that we have never called a referendum to launch anything, but we always call referendums to prevent something. This is certainly quite understandable, however, and this could be corrected by Mr Caine, saying that a referendum was actually called to launch something at the end of 2003, about a year ago when HDZ called a referendum to launch Croatia and won the referendum. So there was a referendum that started something. Anyway, when it comes to "the company" and "Adria," there's a referendum to be called, that's exactly right. However, this referendum should not be conducted exclusively or should not be conducted exclusively in Kvarner or Istria or the Primorje-Gorski County, but should be implemented throughout Croatia for the simple reason that the Adriatic Sea is the property of all of us, all of us, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and not just Kvarner. Why am I saying that? For the simple reason, I will not speak in the way someone expected it, since I, according to my basic profession, was a biologist and that I will talk a lot about ecology because for at least 14 years at Zagreb University, I have actually studied and educated environmental engineers. I'll say something else, I'll say it differently this time. In fact, I would like to highlight a few things that are important from one economic aspect of whether these environmental problems will already be said in the introductory word, and it will be likely to be more talk about it and then we will talk about it. There can be one whole, a whole list of actually environmental risks that are not only, which are not only the risks of sea pollution but are primarily health risks to the population and these are different pathogens that cause diseases from Hepatitis A, all the way to cholera, and they are passed on to balasic waters. There are data on this, and I believe we'll have opportunities at the club, so maybe even I should personally give you some information that's so-called. the data which will contain or should contain this Environmental Impact Study, which has been declared a state secret or military secret. But I want to tell you, therefore, a few things relating to one huge danger, I have just said that a referendum should be called throughout Croatia because the dangers that exist do not apply only to the region, not to Istria, not to Kvarner, not to Omisalj, not to several islands, but to the entire Adriatic Sea. First of all, it's a problem of the danger of having a tanker. That should be said when the company, the "Adria" comes to life, and I hope on behalf of the club and we all believe in the club that there will be so much reason that this project will never come to life, but if the transport of tankers in the Adriatic Sea was brought to life, it would increase by 100 to 150 times. So we're not talking about the risks of a tanker's harassing, so someone's going to say, so what are you talking about risks now, even now the tankers are sailing, so the risks exist. Yeah, but they don't sail anywhere near that size and the way they'd sail if they were to relive that project. That's one thing. Secondly, we have not been prepared at all for such tanker traffic that should be achieved over the next three years in the Adriatic Sea since the start of the project, without talking about other things. And what's important here is to point out that it's not supposed to happen, it's not supposed to happen five haiariums, it doesn't take four, three, ten, twelve, thirteen or fifteen, but it's enough to have one hararium of one tanker and we can say goodbye to tourism and all the economic breakthroughs we have from the Adriatic, not to pick up, of fishing, of maricculture, of everything else for the next 20, 30 years. Therefore, we are not talking about some kind of risk that there is some haemorrhaging on some tanker, so we will sort of get rid of it, so in fact, in that recovery we will lose that profit, right, for that year, a little bit of the loop, and next year it will be all right, but actually it is about that we can really completely destroy what our colleague Bebić said, perhaps if not the most important natural resource that Croatia has. The fact is that the Adriatic Sea is so shallow and in particular closed with such slow changes in electricity that it takes us 10 years to change and change water through the sea currents to the Adriatic. So, we're not talking about some seas or parts of the sea that even colleague Bebić called "moulding" and I can't tell where the currents are completely different than they are in the Adriatic and where the change of water is much bigger than it is in the Adriatic. So when I say enough is one hararium, one tanker and we say goodbye for the next 10 years with the Adriatic Sea. So far, the world's saddened fees for hararium tankers for the damage done by the tankers are moving about 200 million dollars or more. However, I remind you only of the damage dispute as was the Russian tanker Nahotka or Exonvaldez, all the way to Prestige. The sinking of only one tanker would mean an end to Croatia's tourism, fishing and mariculture in the Adriatic. Namely, here's the information. When "The Company" "Adria" reached the maximum flow of Russian oil, Croatia would earn about $80 million in gross revenue annually, or about $10 million in profits per year. For comparison, I would just like to say to you that the Croatian annual profit from exporting, say, tuna is 163 million dollars, that 20 million dollars is profit from exporting fish cans, 15 million from fish from mariculture, 3 million from exporting to clams, 25 million from exporting blue fish. When you add it all together, then you'll actually see that, that such damage would actually exceed the 40th annual earnings actually from these, from tourism, fishing, maricculture and fish exports, compared to the profits they would make from "The Company" "Adria". And finally, I want to tell you a few things that my colleagues have said. First of all, this isn't a deal we're talking lightly about, this isn't an agreement that we're the principles of right now. What we have proposed here and we suggest you yourself know that it is actually the work of the Croatian Party of Rights and many other ecological associations for more than a year and a half. And what is important, in fact, is what is very important and important when I say it, it is impossible to give up the project in a simple way because, in accordance with Article 10 of this Agreement, each of the parties can withdraw from it according to the agreed procedure if they notify it to the Government of the Republic of Hungary as depositary of the agreement twelve months earlier.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29915	A colleague of Rosic, a colleague of Rosic's...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29916	So in order to even begin to withdraw from the agreement, we must deposit a deposit with the Hungarian Government for 12 months, i.e. 12 months. A year earlier. So nothing's easy, nothing's quick, it's all actually in the time frame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29917	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time to apply for a 10-minute debate on this agenda point. SDP representative club, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29918	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, in Croatia, we are burdened with political debates about secret services, about our past, the Ustashas, the Partisans, but a very common political topic is both ecology and fear of environmental problems. This is primarily a political issue and many political parties are trying to gain some of the electoral body on the political topic, to gain popularity. And it is the SDP Club's assessment that this debate, as proposed by the HSP, is a good part and a political issue. And I must say that the HSP Club is trying to evaluate a hundred experts working on environmental impact studies as people who will be paid by the Adriatic pipeline and therefore, given the origin of the funding for the production of hundreds of Croatian experts will not be professional or correct or professional. That's from this pay phone. And at that point, we can really estimate that there was a political disqualification of experts. And that is why the SDP Club believes that in Croatia, the Parliament needs to open a debate on the project "Society" and "Adria", it should open. And here we agree with the Croatian Government, we also agree with the Committee on Space, Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning to open the debate after we get a study of experts who have received the means to assess all risks, because it is unequivocally a risk project for the Croatian economy and for the protection of our environment, especially the Adriatic. We believe that the expert evaluation should be the subject of our discussions in the Croatian Parliament. But we also estimate that the Ministry of Environmental Protection has formed a special expert team that will provide an audit and evaluation of that study. Thus, as there are no more experts in Croatia, international experts will also report, and it is also evident that they will avoid the risk themselves that only Croatian experts are in the evaluation of the environmental study. And it is evident that a shift of perhaps 30 or 60 days of serious debate in this home based on real data from experts who will try to say what the risks are, which are the prices of these risks, how much to invest in protecting against these risks, is this even possible and will then have any economic effect on the Croatian economy. Then we'll get professional professional grades. The SDP club doesn't doubt that kind of assessment. We can't doubt that a hundred people who have worked for over a year on this study will be irresponsible, unobstructed, unprofessional, just because they're paid for their work. They're just paid. And that's why we also believe in the SDP Club that 60 or 90 days of delay in this debate, where, in addition to the political views that we believe that anyone can have and do not have to respect, I would say professional professional findings, I simply in these political assessments, it is possible that the pojwedine parties, because of the full adjudication of the risk, will not respect studies that will talk about the possible costs to be invested to reduce the risk. And then that debate, not just political, is both political and professional. Unfortunately, here's today I think we're talking politically. Why? Because we haven't heard the word of an expert, we don't have a proposal from the Ministry that has its own expert team, which must give us an evaluation and review of the work of experts so that our political views can slowly bring real professional data closer. And just because we don't have influence as politicians, I'd say to our citizens, those who certainly have this kind of black-and-white approach, they're just being politically tortured. How to define, which is reality, which is true. And that's why we think that such an accelerated debate, without professional foundation, is something that the SDP Club won't support. Also when we listen to certain discussions, I personally want to point out the following. If leaving the project "Society" and "Adria" meant no tanker in the Adriatic Sea, I doubt any of these representatives would say it was for "The Company" and "Adria". I doubt it. To ban the entry of tankers into the Adriatic Sea, we would probably all accept this conclusion, even a political conclusion, would not even need studies. Why? Because we estimate that we have protected the Adriatic from any risk. But does the deviation from "The Company" and "Adria" mean there are no tankers in the Adriatic Sea? It doesn't. That doesn't mean, and we need to tell the citizens. We are leaving this project not to secure the Adriatic without a tanker. It'll be further in the Adriatic. But there is something else, greater care about them or perhaps less care about them will be taken over by Slovenia and Italy, and we will shout, yell, complain, and they will try to work and profit, because tankers will move through the Adriatic, because we cannot prevent it, and that is a fact. And at that point, we really need to elaborate professionally, and what do we do, can we do more if we control these tankers, if we watch out for ballast waters, if we prescribe, if we do everything we do to the balasic waters, not Slovenia and Italy? Is that what we're thinking? And it's obvious that when we start to weigh the problem at that point, then we need to see that both studies and the word of experts are very important. Because unfortunately, tankers will drive and sail the Adriatic. Unfortunately. And that's why we come up with important facts. These are conflicts of interest for economic branches and tourism does not need oil. Tourism is one of the opponents of oil trafficking at sea. But we also need to know that oil processing in Croatia is an important branch, the strongest economic company is INA. Two refineries, two refineries we fight for. Do they need Russian oil? Yeah. Cheaper transport of Russian oil to Sisak and to Rijeka if it goes by land than sea. Then be assured the Rijeka refinery will work for both Slovenia and part of northern Italy. And then we know there is no doubt that Sisak will work for central Croatia and will be able to fight for a performance on the Bosnia and Herzegovina market. Two refineries. Well, that's a couple thousand people. Their total income, profit is not the $10 million we've heard about if we give up Company and Adrian, just 10 million, would disagree. Thus, the transport of oil by land of these two refineries may mean about 8 million tons of oil to less tankers to come, bringing oil to JANAF and to the Rijeka refinery. And we need to know that Panchevo is also supplied via JANAF. And he's going to work too, and that means if there's a Company and Adria again transporting Russian oil. Less tankers and for Pancheva. Therefore, experts will tell us what it means, what is the probability that only in these refineries will it be done mostly by Russian oil because it is most profitable for refineries, most profitable for supplying this part of the European market, means both Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Slovenia, and northern Italy. These are calculations we need to hear from our experts. But you know, it's not just refinery work. Two refineries and the modernisation of two refineries a billion dollars, a billion dollars in jobs for all our companies that I hope will work on the technological progress of modernising these refineries. Therefore, the oil industry is not any industry. The question remains whether the treatment of ballast waters can be projected on land, that obligation is established. The answer is yes. The oil industry can pay for that. That's the answers. It's not like he's gonna pay for JANAF. It pays for the oil industry that cares about the transprost and that processing of these ballast waters can pay. That's what we could see. It's not a $25 oil problem to jump to $50. And I would not like to talk about transport costs, which means land-based transport, via pipelines, which means by boat, how much savings these savings are and which means then transferring costs that will occur, such as ballast water, dual bottom obligation in ships, the obligation to run the pilot from the Otran Gate, etc., are all the regulations that I expect experts to propose and that means that it is possible to transfer all this to the price of oil and oil can pay. The moment we are economically considering conflicts of interest of tourism and conflicts of interest of the processing industry we can slowly come up with that it is easy to find reconciliation, that when we talk about transporting oil it is not just JANAF's activity, it is the entire oil branch of Croatia. I'm not going to talk about everything we've heard from Mr. Caine who mentioned a series of companies still working on oil traffic, tankers traffic, insurance, financing, we're not going to talk about people working on ballast water processing facilities, we're not going to talk about our port captains who are going to be able to work and make money tracking ships. Therefore, it is a series of activities that occur. It's just a question of whether or not we're gonna say no. That "no" won't say either Kopar or Trieste but then know we won't dictate what kind of ballast water treatment will be, we won't dictate any ban on transporting oil through the Adriatic. That's for sure. But then we'll have problems and what with two refineries because these refineries will still remain only on sea transport and not on land transport. This is all the reason why we feel that we need to hear the word of an expert, that we need to hear inputs not only about possible risks but also about the cost of removing those risks, and then our discussions will be much more objective, a little less political. I believe that we will help our citizens understand the price of the situation and that we will understand each other more. This is the reason that the SDP Club considers a mandatory debate that must follow in this House in the context of a public debate on environmental impact study which has been developed and where the public debate has started. After that, I think the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament will be as small as it will depend on our political views, but above all on professional arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29919	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative of Slaven Letica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29920	In fact, for a long time I've been upset by the political demagogy of Slavko Linic and now I'm going to say something about her. Look, in December 2002, when you signed "The Society" and "Adria" you didn't order scientific research. If you believed science you would have previously ordered studies which were now ordered in the last six, seven months and based on these studies would of course bring and conclude and then we would be in a completely different situation. As far as the key topics here are concerned, the the thesis that ecology is a political topic is a period of late Marxism. So, for 20 years now in Europe, ecology has been a key existential topic because people started taking care of the planet, the forests, the waters. The identification of the HSP Club is long-term, strategical for the protection of the natural resources of the Republic of Croatia. In the past, governments sold less everything man created, and banks, and trade chains. The new government is preparing even the sale of highways that are not finished. What we don't think can be sold is what's left of our grandfathers and that's what Luka Bebić was talking about. These are water resources and there is a great danger for foreigners to buy and Croatian waters that are the largest development resource not only of Croatia but also of regions beyond Western Europe. Then there's the woods. I'll tell you, the whole of Europe has one provision that forests can't drink more than 50 kilometers away where they grow. Now the situation is that you have two sawmills in the Gorski Kotar. They were 87, there was one of Filipovic's little ones left and you have 92 in Zagreb. We can't sell water, we can't sell land. I was in Djurdjevac, an estate of four football fields with a complete infrastructure, a man in despair of selling for 2,000 euros, and you're telling me it's a political issue. It's an existential topic that concerns our future. As far as science doubts are concerned, I'm a professional scientist, I'm afraid of the abuse of political results of scientific research and researchers when building a clay factory warned against all the risks for ten years but politics made a decision to do so. Researchers also suggested that there are risks to the operation of the Rijeka Bank but that politicians did not take it seriously, Mr Linic. Scientists have warned of the problems of Victor Lenca and macro-economicists and micro-economicists, and experts from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. You didn't take that seriously. And as far as I'm concerned, I've had a big debate, I've worked for the World Health Organization, we've had a very serious ethical debate about whether tobacco factories can take money to explore health promotion opportunities. That's a very ethical question. The conclusion was that when it comes to health promotion other than the treatment of incurable diseases, no money should be taken. Therefore, there is an obvious conflict of interest between, above all, it is systemically defined in Croatia. We advocate an international review of the results of the research. And finally, just two words about what's so far a state secret. Here, so there's no dispute there. A large research team for the epidemiologist of infectious diseases led by Prof. Dr. Ire Generomargan, who is otherwise a dagger there from the island, she and the daughter of Mr. Margan who was I think the president of the assembly, don't get me from the bench, then, Dr. Borislav Alleraj, Bernard Kajic and Dr. Goranka Miklec has completed a study that points to all the sinister consequences of the balusic waters on human health. I'm afraid this will not allow politicians to be released, that's what I'm talking about. I personally as a professional scientific worker with an internship of over 30 years most trust scientists and my experiences with them are positive. What I'm afraid of is people like you. That's what I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29921	Correction of incorrect allegations, respected representative Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29922	Correcting the incorrect allegations, by 2002, the coalition government had not ordered the study. By signing the Agreement on the Adriatic Society, JANAF was obliged to make an investment study, part of an investment study, given that the direction of transport of oil is also the creation of a study for environmental protection which has been done for more than a year and a few days and today we can say that it has been completed. Therefore, incorrect information. The abuse of scientific work will not be possible for the reason why we advocate the debate in the Croatian Parliament as part of a public debate on all of these studies. These are my reasons for all these insults by Mr Letica, which apparently remains in the absence of arguments as a battle for his position.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29923	And the second correction, the esteemed representative of Jure Bitunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29924	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Letica said in the context of privatisation, as he said everything, the following, the new government is selling highways He's preparing to sell the freeways. [[Intruder: Preparation!]] That's absolutely not true, the government of Dr. Sanader prepares to give a concession when it comes to managing 30 years on highways, based on an international public tender. So it's out of context and it's absolutely incorrect in terms of what you said and your messages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29925	Thank you. Dear Representative Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29926	Dear President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. This topic is indeed politically grateful. This is also the testimony of Mr Letica's present performance, which also speaks on behalf of the promoter, and which one mature and reasoned debate calls the political demagogy Slavko Linic. This is also witnessed by his first appearance on behalf of the promoter, where he said in his first sentence that he interrupted his Adriatic tour to come here to the Parliament to discuss this bill proposal. Because ending the Adriatic tour wasn't enough reason for the Law on Public Roads, no mandatory relations, no state service, so no legal proposal that we've been discussing here in the last few days, but this one. And that's the first sentence, that's the first sentence Mr. Letica speaks on behalf of the promoter, I've interrupted my Adriatic tour as a presidential candidate. So this topic should be served, it will be welcome to Mr. Letica, at least that's what he thinks in his election campaign. That this topic is politically grateful says that shouting in the benches between the gentlemen of law and Damir Cain. But that topic will be politically grateful especially if it is set in relation to, therefore, if it has an exclusive approach or. It would look like this simplistic: so please choose to make a statement. Either you're for protecting the Adriatic or you're for earning money and hiring people or developing. Yes, I understand, I understand that you really understand that. But the question of whether a solution can be asked in relation to and, and. Is it possible, because look, we need it, we need a clean Adriatic. Well, that's clear to everyone. Well, I guess there's no doubt about it in this House. So we need the Adriatic as clean sea. But we can't keep it clean alone because the Adriatic is not just Croatian. But the Adriatic is also an opportunity for development and profit, and as such an opportunity is not just our chance. We don't take advantage of it, or we're gonna take advantage of the other one. He won't even ask us. Here, we have heard here that the Adriatic passes 600 tankers a year, of which 60 comes to Omisalj. What effect do we have on 540? What's that? Can we stop their traffic? Can we turn it down? There's nothing we can do! We can watch them go through! Omisalj was a landing port, according to the Company project, a pardon, an oil port, according to the project, Adrija should be a landing port. The difference is large and the risk is increased. Where are your risks? It's a risk of harassing and sinking tankers and ballast waters. As for the increased risk of hararium, then it is necessary to simply realize that Omisalj is not the only port in the northern Adriatic. Well, there's still Trieste.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29927	Comrade Stazic, just one moment, you have left on the right side of your face from this sequin a little bit, so you flash, twinkle.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29928	Thank you very much. I think I see it in your forehead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29929	... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm glowing, too?- I'm sorry. Good!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29930	So there's also Trieste, Kopar, Morfalcone, City. And now the only question is, is it possible to reduce that risk? Is it possible that when we get that environmental study where they're going to be, I guess, they're going to be enrolled, to calculate these risks, how can they be reduced? It's true that sailing to the Adriatic is complicated, there are many islands, islands, cliffs, but can't be introduced for example. A mandatory pyrotation system? We can! We can do that as legislators. We can get the boaters to board the pilot on their way into the Adriatic. Or separate sailing if you can't quite get the pilot aboard, I don't know because of the bad weather to follow the ship that's leading him. As for the balaic waters, that is, if Omisalj becomes a landing port for the Adriatic, then the balaic waters are brought to Omishi. They're not boarding in the Omistry when the oil comes off, but the boat comes with, the tanker comes from the ballast... But look, right now as we're discussing here, so this year, only in the northern Adriatic, is 5 million tons of ballast water dropped, in Tršljjanko Bay, 4 million and 700 thousand tonnes in the Italian part and 700 thousand tons in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have absolutely no influence on that again. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What's going on with these balus waters? The obligation to change the ballast waters when entering the Adriatic exists. The question is, are they respected? So how can we possibly protect ourselves from some boatman not respecting that obligation? There are decantators, there are devices that are built on land, so all the ballast waters are poured into that device and thus the terminal itself, so the sea terminals are protected. Now in the Omistry, we only have a decantator for, uh, oil ballast water. Not for the unsullied. But we can do that as legislators. We can predict the obligation to build a decantator, increase the capacity and obligation of the ship's ship to drop ballast waters into that decantator no matter where you take them. Well, he just took them five miles before Omishi. He's got to drop them there and he's got to pay for that favor. He's got to pay for that favor. We can also earn and protect the Adriatic at the recycling of ballast waters. This part that we can even influence. But we can do all that. What good is it to us if others don't? How can we keep the Adriatic unless all the other countries that go out on that Adriatic? He is right, Mr. Rožic, the haemarija of a tanker means the death of the Adriatic or the end of tourism for 10 years. But we can't influence whether or not the hawari will experience a ship driving to Trieste. I therefore think that the solution to this problem of Croatia's co-operation with Slovenia, Italy, Serbia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Greece, Albania, is to reach an international agreement, an agreement on this. How to protect the common good? And how to master that good? How to take advantage of a favourable geographical position? How come you don't give up money? How come you don't give up new jobs? At the same time, not giving up protection. That's the way we should go. In order to take safe steps on this road, let's wait for the first study that scientists are doing. We see what it says, and then we make political decisions, and I'm convinced that they're mature and responsible. Decisions that will indeed be in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29931	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Miroslav Rožić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29932	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, that this is a political issue is indeed a revelation. Imagine, but we politicians do politics in the Croatian Parliament. Who would have thought that? ... Yeah, well, it's not possible, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But two things, you know some of the arguments that come out here, the arguments that come out here are about like this. The argument is really hard to keep me calm in its place, for the simple reason that the argument is approximately this conjecture. Ladies and gentlemen, just because it's raining, we claim that the roads are dry. It's a two-level argument, uninterrupted. First, experts and expert opinion, and an agreement has been signed without the opinion of experts and those who signed it without any expert's opinion, are now being called upon to the expert's opinion and that we cannot withdraw from this agreement unless the experts approve it. But imagine it wasn't necessary for us to approve of it. It's really this kind of argument I'm talking about. Just because it's raining, we claim the roads are dry. The second level of question is we cannot affect the transport of tankers in the Adriatic. Namely, Adriatics sail tankers and now whether Adria or not, tankers are already sailing and will be sailing whether they exist or not. For them, for information, a few things. First, Adria predicts in its full work export from our 15 million-ton port, the world's worst oil quality, which is up to 15% full of mud. So far the worst oil in the world will be exported through our ports of 15 million tonnes under the Adria agreement. On the other hand, what tankers sail the Adriatic Sea today? Those who bring oil, not those who drive it. And that's the big difference. You know, these oil-drive tankers, they bring oil here, they don't come with ballast waters, they come with oil. These tankers that cross oil into ports, they work in a different way with different technology. And all these ports of fellow Stazic you listed both the City and Montfalcone and all, they're all import oil ports. None of them are exportable, and there's a huge difference. So really tankers will sail, sail and now, but in what size and in what business, that's, that's the difference. Secondly, when you have ten times as many tankers you have a million times the risk. It doesn't increase the risk of having tankers administratively proportional to the number of tankers but it increases the risk exponentially with the number of tankers, and you know what that means. Secondly, do not be afraid, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia and Italy will not build an export port for oil. They won't build it. First because some of them, like Slovenia, cannot naturally and secondly because Italy already said they would not export Russian oil. He won't. So don't scare us with that. What Slovenia and Italy are going to do and what they are exactly doing is true. They'll take over our fish, but they won't take over Russian oil. That's for sure, and we were going to declare ourselves an economic belt. Do not be afraid, neither Slovenia nor Italy oppose our intention to build an export port for oil, but they have strongly opposed our intention to declare an economic belt, and we, through our economic belt, do not lose 400 million dollars annually, which is the 40-year profit of the company "Adrie". Now, that's the truth, the true data, and as far as experts are concerned, I'll tell you this. Experts like experts. And I've been an expert my whole life in the field of ecology and I have a lot of my colleagues who disagree with my judgments, professionally. And we're both experts. Take 10 experts from any profession, you'll get 5 different opinions on the same thing, and they're all experts. And let's not call ourselves experts for that. Experts are the ones who give us the basis to bring political opinion. Politicians are "decision designers" Americans say. We're decision-makers based on expert opinion, and I'm telling you that the HSP Club has in a year and a half as many as we're fighting a battle against the Adria project brought together thousands of experts' opinions and what we're saying is not things that we're saying in our minds, not our own more professional opinions as we have made them, but the expert opinions of not a hundred experts who will write studies influencing the environment but thousands of those who have already written thousands of impact studies on the environment. And we don't talk nonsense, and we don't say it by heart. That's what makes those who think differently, so it's just like politics. On the basis of the same arguments, we make entirely different decisions. And it's just like that. But you know what there are no experts on the planet Earth who will tell you that the risks we're talking about don't exist. They will only assess the degree of that risk in different ways whether it is greater or smaller. But no one's gonna say there's no risk. You won't find such a thing to be certain of. But you know what when we talk about it when they assess the level of risk of condoms remind yourself that the expert estimated that the degree of risk of decomposition from a nuclear activity that could cause catastrophus was expressed, so all of this happened despite the opinion of experts that there is no risk, or that the risk is negligible. And despite the fact that experts today claim that the risk is zenamariv and the US and the European Union have closed all nuclear power plants or are in the interest of their closure. And they don't build any more new ones. And it's a political decision. And speaking of political decisions, the United States has as the most powerful force in the world refused to sign an agreement in Cobe on environmental issues and has made that political decision. And she didn't give a shit what her experts thought. And in America, everyone thinks they need a signed contract in Cobe. But the U.S. doesn't sign it. Why, because it coincides with its political and economic commitment and their political and economic start-up. And it would cause too much shooting inside and politics and economy in the United States. And that's what you need to know. And that's what we're talking about and of course this is a political issue. Well, we're not the Croatian Arts Academy here. We are the highest home in this country to make political decisions. Based on expert opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29933	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29934	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that Russian oil is the worst quality to be transported to the Adriatic. Because part of the import oil is far off the top quality and not to elaborate on it now is an incorrect quote. There is also another difference in the transport of oil in the arrival of the tankers moving along our coast full of oil, if they leave with oil they will move along the Italian side of the coast. So that's one plus that's uninterrupted. And I am pleased at the state lecture by the exhibitor who explained to Mr Letica that it was still a political topic. He who denies the political theme is Mr Letica, not the SDP rep club.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29935	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Ante Markov's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Representative Perica Bukic. He's gone. He's losing his right. Then, Mr. Representative Marko Shirac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29936	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. My debate on this subject will be on the trail presented by the Vice-President of the Parliament on the position of our club of representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union and the position of the Croatian Government. That we really don't need to make a decision on this matter in a hurry. I respect the views and opinions of colleagues from the Croatian Party of Rava and their concern for the protection of the Adriatic Sea, I, too, as a man who has dealt with this problem of good living, would not want to contribute personally, of course, to endanger our country's pearl. However, I do not agree with their views on the assessment of our distinguished experts of institutions working on this issue. As representatives of the Croatian people and parliamentary representatives in this House, we must respect the laws of this country, in which the procedure is prescribed, in which way we will make our final decision, regarding our position on Družba and Adria. It should be allowed for people to complete the study to go public, the ministry to give its assessment and, if necessary, to use a referendum on how citizens in the Republic of Croatia could say the final word about all this. I'll be free to bring here before the Parliament that 10 years ago I worked with a team of experts to create a serious project that was called the Master's Adriatic Sea Protection Plan. Where we evaluate and determine the burdens that go from the Republic of Croatia means the amount of waste water but also the quantities polluted that go from the Republic of Croatia, Slovenia and Italy. The result is defeated for a neighbouring country called Italy. These are only partially polluted which threatens the Adriatic Sea. If we had real insight of what comes across the river Po through Venice next to which is a huge petrochemical complex, huge agricultural surfaces on which our Italian neighbours, with the mass use of artificial fertilisers and pesticides, produce fruits that are like super-quality here, sell RH and all these waste materials end up in the Po River and enter the Adriatic Sea. In some grades we are about 15% of all our cities and ports import pollution into the Adriatic Sea compared to the Republic of Italy. According to some quality estimates, therefore, only about 10% of the dangerous burdens imported and entering the Adriatic Sea are waste on the Republic of Croatia. And everything else is with our neighbors. So these neighbours of ours, of course, take the right to protest through their environmental associations both Slovenians and Italians are protesting for this project, which I do not want to defend but I want to discuss objectively. Already today, Russian oil can reach the Sisak refinery without any problem, and that part of the opinion Mr. Bebic said. It may be that we will finally all be together and stand up and bring consensus, but that oil ends up in our river refinery. That he's not going, that he's not going, that he's not going any further. The second thing we really need to take care of is the next thing. Today, we are talking about an offer offered from the east, from Russia, but it should not be ignored that such an offer will come from the Black Sea coast very quickly, from a constant where Americans control oil and have a keen interest in transporting oil through Romania, Serbia and Montenegro to Croatia and reaching Rijeka and exporting over the river because it is not easy to carry oil through a narrower there at Cargizada, Bospor and Dardanella. So, I stand for a very objective grade. This is just one attitude and one assessment that I really respect with my colleagues, but it is necessary to wait and what other professional institutions will say and act in accordance with our laws. And I'd end up, right now I don't think there's any conditions for us to accept this proposal, and I'll definitely join my club's position to reject it at this point. Thank you. You can do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29937	Thank you very much. It's Mr. Agent Anton Perusko's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29938	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Since his colleague Slavko Linic, speaking on behalf of the SDP Club, has made a number of very reasonable arguments why we at the SDP Club are at this moment to delay decision-making on this important issue, and so that he does not put himself in a position to force me to answer some of the insults and demagogue flossulas that our distinguished colleague, Dr. Slaven Letica, has told us, I am giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29939	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zlatko Kramarić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29940	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. If you'll excuse me, I would also return to the past a little bit and recall, and some remember that, that the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection of the Croatian Parliament had an extended thematic session held on 11 June last year. So, almost a year and a half ago, where a debate was held on the integration project of the "Society" and "Adria" pipelines. You see, and this committee, or committee, met precisely because there was a lot of pressure from the public. Some then-members insisted on this, insisting on this by local self-government and the extended thematic session held on 11 June, were representatives of local self-government, the County Administration of the Primorje-Gorski County and many representatives of various environmental associations, and one of the main speakers was one of today's promoters, counterpart Tonci Tadic. And then it was particularly stressed that the signing of the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the project of the integration of the "Society" and "Adria" pipelines on 6 December 2002 strongly sensitised our public, especially in its coastal municipalities and cities, but it also updated and encouraged the understanding of the complexity of the issue of the protection of the Adriatic Sea in relation to all existing sources of pollution and environmental hazards. The extended thematic session found that the implementation of the project will be potentially new in the near future due to an increase in maritime transport of dangerous goods and cargo, an additional amount of oil in the port of Omisalj as an additional source of pollution in the Adriatic and this high risk. Furthermore, the thematic session warned that the project should also be seen fully from the point of view of the safety of transport to land pipelines, in particular the potential risks of groundwater pollution. So it's not only the port of Omisalj, it's this land transport as well. Furthermore, it is undoubtedly found that for the implementation of the JANAF d.o.o. pipeline integration project. under the obligation to upgrade, expand and modernise the Adriatic pipeline that was built from 1975 to 1979, for which it is necessary, as previously necessary to carry out the environmental impact assessment process and it has been established that there is no strategic assessment of all existing burdens and pressures on the Adriatic. Now I don't know whether, in the meantime, this year and a half, which changed even though, in the current debate, I still don't think there's one clear strategic assessment of all the existing burdens and pressures on our Adriatic. It has been specifically warned about the overall problem of transporting dangerous goods to the Adriatic Sea which is still extremely pronounced today because it is during... available with data from 2002, a total of 95 million tonnes of cargo transported, now this is very important, without Coast Guard and navigation control systems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm afraid my situation isn't much better today, and what usually happens to some colleagues who know better, they say that when such big tankers get into a closed sea, not just this closed sea, but usually when they get into these territorial waters that then piloting is taken over by local people. It was then confirmed that ballast water and an unresolved way of dealing with that ballast are a particular problem for all export ports, regardless of the type of cargo, and the treatment of a mixture of easily volatile hydrocarbons and inert gas is an additional problem in the export of oil derivatives and crude oil. And it was estimated that in only last year, then, in 2002, about 6 million tonnes of ballast waters were dropped uncontrollably in the Adriatic. The need to preserve the Adriatic Sea, coastal and island is then undoubtedly assessed because it is a strategic national issue and a lasting commitment both at the state and local level because it is a significant natural, very sensitive ecological system, as well as an exceptional economic resource of the Republic of Croatia. We also warned of the issue of the balance of economic use of natural values and the protection of the Adriatic. This relationship was considered to be, above all, high-quality and clearly established and balanced by legal regulation. It is then requested to review all measures of regulations in the function of sea protection and their coordinated implementation that will prevent pollution from ships, the devastation of submarines from illegal fishing and uncontrollable underwater activities, but at the same time reduce unwanted pressures on marine ecosystems from land sources, coastal pollution, wastewater discharges, waste management, illegal use of marine goods and the like. And then we misjudged the lack of timely information from the public about the planned project. And that's why, just about then, that case of "Prestige" happened, and everything, I say, was sensitized by the public. The Committee has never been able to implement these conclusions, because for the then known political reasons, it simply was not possible to give up the quorum, although all of this was inferred to say one body that had nothing, had no party reference, but it was simply to say "vox popully" which was trying to cross this way seemed very clear and concrete warnings, remarks and certain demands that we as a Committee could go towards the Government of the Republic of Croatia and so on. And I say to the conclusions I say that unfortunately they have never been realised and have not come to the session of the Parliament's then composition were the following. According to the project of the integration of the "Society" and "Adria" pipelines, the committee is being declared, the decision-making reserve said, as there are not enough elements. The whole debate today also shows that the situation is unfortunately not for a year and a half, and in fact, even two, because the agreement is signed if I'm not mistaken on 16 December 2002, there are not enough elements and I don't think that the situation has changed any more. And then we asked the then Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning to provide the Committee with an environmental impact study for all planned Adriatic pipeline operations in order to implement the project integration of the "Society" and "Adria" pipelines. We also asked the Republic of Croatia to move quickly to protect the Adriatic Sea and co-ordinate an inter-resor project to strategically assess all existing burdens and negative impacts on the Adriatic. I'm afraid it's the same thing, that all of our conclusions remain a dead letter on paper. It appears that many environmental issues have been raised in connection with security measures of oil cargo in Omislja and transporting the Adriatic to world markets. The same thing that was quite clear to us, I say the signing of this agreement precisely because of the untimely information of the public, and especially the one that was directly interested in telling these municipalities that had a very different relationship, different thoughts, let's say, colleagues from Krk, different from colleagues from Rijeka, but that also showed a particular political focus. We also felt that it must be seen correctly, that there are certain estimates of what it means in terms of earnings, that the revenues of JANAF, that the revenues of JANAF will be between $50 million and $80 million a year, but whether these revenues are greater or smaller than tourism, we failed to do so on that Committee, and not later in the public hearings of such decided answers. Also, although these discussions also indicated that tourism, the economy also has a significant share in the pollution of the Adriatic, it is not that we understand each other without any influence. And it's not, I say it's not as black or white as it can be sometimes. It was also a clear question, whether a safety navigation system could be established within that remaining short period of just one year until the start of the project, the corridors could be established, the tanker monitoring could be determined,... So much is necessary legislation to limit and sail the Adriatic to old tankers without double payment. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] It would be good to see if something more important has changed in the meantime. The same was also of course a problem with these ballast waters. In addition, what was uncertain for us then, would the high standard of protection on which we felt Croatia should be insisted, would it agree to some and these other coastal countries, in the first row of Slovenia and Italy? And following all this, I say it has been asked by these competent ministries as well as by JANAF to report to the Committee on all the measures necessary to take as a prerequisite for the start of the implementation of this project. As the Parliament changed in the meantime, I am no longer the chairman of this committee, I really don't know what happened in the meantime, but obviously we haven't moved much from the very beginning, because obviously one such debate would not open today. And what is very important, about the measures that are necessary as a prerequisite for the start of the implementation of this project, they must be based on valid Croatian legislation and on normal obligations under international agreements, or it is necessary to establish some more restrictive rules which then apply to the conservation of the marine environment, reconstruction, expansion of the port terminal, Omisalj, environmental impact assessment, on the location... on the waterway, safety of transport of dangerous substances in maritime transport, the way in which we treat hazardous waste, cost assessment and profit, cross-border pollution and co-operation with neighbouring countries,... measures in the case of hararium, all of these are very clear and... we have therefore not received reliable answers. And what I think as representatives, as citizens of this country, we deserve just before we decide that all these things are made by someone from the government or the competent ministry as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29941	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic. He's gone. Ms. Representative Ruža Tomasic. And the replica, I'm sorry, ma'am, was a replica I forgot. Mrs. Maria Byte's replica of this previous exhibition.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29942	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Kramaric said there is no assessment of the environmental impact procedure. Well, in that part, I'd just like to say that in the assessment of environmental impact studies, and that in four months, that assessment should be done and until the end of that period that nothing can be done. I remind you that it is an interstate contract, an international contract signed by the former government, and that as such it must be respected or rejected under certain conditions. And personally like the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I advocate an objective assessment that is in the interests of both the Croatian state and the maximum protection of the Adriatic Sea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29943	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Madam Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29944	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have no intention of politicizing, nor when I'm doing it, I'm saying what I mean. So, Croatia in the world, apart from the good athletes most famous as a land with clean sea and a clean natural protected environment. It's paradise on earth. But if the "social" and "Adria" agreements come to life, everything can change in no time. Since the Adriatic Sea will sail over 200 tankers a year for that alone. Our only protection from the haiarium so far is only prayerable. And out of all the traffic on our narrow and shallow Adriatic full... that's not impossible. In a few days, Croatia would experience a complete ecological disaster. And other than haiarium, other ecological disasters are balasic waters. The tankers "The Company" and "Adria" will bring balasic waters from other seas, which by biological and chemical composition are significantly different from the Adriatic Sea. So they can threaten and destroy the local ecological system and the biological world of the Adriatic. The danger of the balus waters will not be avoided. It doesn't matter who's talking, but it hasn't been proven that it can be prevented. And the data suggests that tankers would bring in more than 7 million tons of ballast water in a year. These balances mostly contain waste water, foreign marine organisms, jellyfish, toxic algae, bacteria, viruses, various garbage, sewerage waste from the ports, chemicals and others. Remember the case of a gelatinous... that was transferred 10 years ago by balasic waters from the great lakes in North America to the Black Sea. Which is why fishing there died. And the third big problem that we're not talking about at all is organostrated compounds. And other very toxic compounds that are coated on tankers with parts that are constantly in the water. These biocidal products prevent the formation of the underwater part of the hull from living organisms. But by slowly melting these compounds into the sea, there is inevitable contamination of the entire marine eco system. In France, in a bay where up to 15,000 tonnes of pebbles were produced annually... The compounds were the reason why the production failed and, therefore, France and other countries banned the use of these compounds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But unfortunately, these bans only apply to ships less than 25 metres long and tankers continue to be overridden by these toxic compounds. Mr. Linic stated that two ironworks would not be able to work, that workers would stay on the street, that somewhere he said, the refineries, I'm sorry, it would be somewhere around 2,000 people and he didn't mention in any word what would happen to us on the islands or the coast to disappear life in the sea. Also, Mr Stazic noted that if we don't make money, Slovenia, Italy, Montenegro or others will earn money. But if there's any trouble with them, they'll pay to clean it up, and if it happens with us, then we'll have to pay. But remember the case, remember the boat that crashed in Spain because it was a Liberian tanker registered in the Bahamas, managed by Greece and hired by a Swiss company and now you try to collect the damages. So, colleagues and colleagues, those who do not live at sea and from the sea, may not understand what a disaster would be for Croatia and especially for us on islands and coasts would be if only one tanker had happened or a little dying of life in the sea from balasic waters, or various chemicals. My colleagues and colleagues, we don't have the technology to prevent these disasters, we don't have a coast guard, and we don't have any resources like Spain had for the Prestig tanker, but she still couldn't stop the ecological disaster. For us, there is only one hash, the end of tourism and the end of fishing. All we have left is agriculture. And gentlemen, we can't survive this agriculture let alone live. Therefore, if you do not want to become a hell on earth from heaven on earth, support the review of the conclusion of the HSP on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the Adriatic Oil Integration Project. For once the life of our sea is gone no more of Judah's sheath shall bring him back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29945	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Dorotea Pesic-Bukovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29946	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the very beginning, I must point out that I come from the county where JANAF is placed. It is logical that I am concerned about my end, so my exposure will be focused on a study of environmental impact and what ways should solutions to the problem of the Adria Society be. I am aware that JANAF will not disappear but that we must find the best solution we can and must. I am personally in a dilemma on the one hand how to provide high ecological standards and protect our Adriatic and on the other hand how to provide our citizens with jobs because everyone has the right to work naturally. Croatia is a tourist country and if it wants to stay, we must certainly develop an ecological culture at sea. Our environments are full of mouths, we swear to environmental science when it's necessary and we don't need to ask the real question of how much we do for it, how much we try to keep our environment and our environment clean and natural. As much as we invest in this segment of our lives, as much as we invest, we will live in a healthy and unpolluted environment. But not just us, because what we do today, whether good or bad, we leave to future generations of heritage. Ladies and gentlemen, are you ready to take that responsibility? In my opinion, 152 of us cannot take on such responsibility and weight. That should be decided by all citizens who are connected to the area, so as they decide, so it will be. Whether it's good or bad, but it's gonna be their decision. We are aware that without the Adria Society, of course, there will be tankers in the Adriatic, there are now, but how many will be there and how many we actually need to maintain this level without the number of tankers increasing. Primorje-Gorski Kotar County has been actively involved in the process and in collaboration with the project, the County of Istria has been excluded and has not been asked anything. Even though she's interested in it. The study was ordered and done. The study itself has 1900 pages. So some would think that it was all done and that it was processed and very serious. However, in my opinion and the opinion of the study experts is poor and missing. So let me sort of do that in short lines and explain it. Of the 1900 pages already mentioned, only six pages discuss environmental protection measures. It is not a serious failure but it raises the question of what a lobby radio study was, whether it was by environmentalists or representatives of oil companies. But let's take it in a row! What may not be for the public's eyes has been declared a military secret, but we cannot, of course, go into it. On the other hand, the study did not process the environmental impact for maximum capacity, but only 5 million tons of oil that has been covered. So only the first stage is processed, the second and third phases are not even touched. And by the third stage, up to 15 million tons of packed oil should be reached and there is no word in the study. The study did not calculate the cost of protection, neither did the incident situations, because they could not assess how much it would cost, so they simply did not put it in the study. In my opinion, there's too little use for too much risk! I don't want to add up all the disadvantages of this study. Not to say that the study was done disastrously badly. Since the study cannot be corrected within the legal deadline within which the environmental impact assessment is carried out, we propose to the Ministry to deny approval for the procedure. The study should be a serious document on which to rely and believe. I don't know if a memorandum was signed yesterday on the construction of a Burgas port pipeline for Alexandroupolis but it was supposed to be signed by representatives of Bulgaria, Russia and Greece yesterday, following intensive negotiations on the Aegean Sea, these three countries still reached agreement on long-scheduled construction. A strategic pipeline that should link the Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek port of Alexandroupolis in the northern part of the Aegean Sea. The project began in the 1990s and should allow for the transport of raw oil from Russia by a land route that bypasses the traffic of stifled Bosporus and Helespoon. So we need to see what happens to that pipeline, make a new study that will be done professionally and answer three of the most important questions. How to protect against incidents on land and sea, how to solve the problem of balasic waters, and perhaps because no one has mentioned perhaps the problem of terrorism today. Because we know that Russian oil would come for the European Union or the United States. In the context of all these problems, I think we still have a long, long work ahead of us to make sure we're doing the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29947	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Mr Pejo Trčević reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29948	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. We have been waiting at the HSPa Club for almost two years for this debate and some parliamentary deputies now argue that it is too early to believe that the very parliamentary representatives who were in the previous term are now saying that the debate is premature. I guess that's where they're thinking of handling it in the third term. namely, I will talk about the risk of continuing environmental pollution in the transport of oil, hence the pollution of the Adriatic and pollution on the entire route of the pipeline, especially given the potential and origins of the drinking water of Gorski Kotar, Banovina, and Moslavina. On the basis of the above, it will actually be possible to speak in total about the non-acceptability of the agreement. In addition to the problem he imagines as an export terminal and warehouse and a tank and equipment over the age of 30, problems can also be solved with balance water for which there is no regulation yet. The risk of transport through the Adriatic with an ancient and inadequate fleet of especially Russian tankers, with a single shell, which transports unquality and heavy Russian oil and the most modern sea intervention service that we unfortunately do not have. can't be much help with the big tanker's hand on the Adriatic. The problem exists but is systematically avoided as a commitment and as a responsibility. The route of the pipeline through Gorski Kotar so Krk Sisak shares continue towards Hungary, and Serbia-Montenegro i.e. If you don't know that there's a pipeline in the Banovina and Moslavina area that has suffered a war. And when we know he's over 30 years old, then we certainly can't claim he's safe. With a 12-inch Adriatic pipeline, raw oil flows through a sensitive karst area. About 1,300 liters per second. Statistics show that, in addition to all sure measures, maintenance of the world’s oil pipelines, which are considered absolutely safe as in England, Germany, Italy and other countries, oil spills occur with negative effects on the human environment. From the Adriatic pipeline are potentially threatened springs of drinking water and water supply systems such as Krk, Church. River, Delnice, Vrbovska, Ogulin, Duga Resa, Karlovac. Soldier, Clay and Petrinja, all the way to Sisak. Also potentially endangered are water streams, Lichanka, Dobra, Mrežnica, Koran, Glina, Petrinjčica, as well as a dozen smaller water streams. It is also threatened by a system of groundwater in a wide area along the pipeline route because oil has reached karst areas is rapidly spreading by underground natural flows. Croatia does not have a measure of possible decontamination of the oil spill, but there is, above all, no reserve system of water supply for the population, with technical solutions. Oil can be spilled anywhere, anytime, and pollution can occur at the moment. From Sisak the pipeline is heading north towards Hungary, the same towards Serbia and Montenegro and the greatest risk of potential damage is borne exclusively by the Republic of Croatia, the part where the pipeline passes right through the violations of the areas already listed dinars from Krk to Sisak. The project and technical preparations for preventive measures for the protection of the most endangered areas in Croatia should be traits and beneficiary countries of this pipeline because the pipeline is actually a regional project. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the HSPa Club proposes that Croatia step out of the agreement between the company and Adria, because it is certainly in the national interest. And in the interest of environmental protection and natural potentials of the Republic of Croatia. In this respect, I note the agreement that the Druzba Adria will do more damage in the future than the benefits of our beautiful Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29949	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Željko Pavlic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29950	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Here is a permit for me to also refer to the adoption of a proposal for the Croatian Parliament's conclusion on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the cooperation agreement on the implementation of the DRužba and Adria pipeline integration project. At first, let me say my point of view that I will support this conclusion, and with the repetition of some arguments that have been presented here so far. EV now one of the arguments was brought here a few moments ago. So we're going to have more damage than good from this project. More damage and these damages could actually be invaluable. What are the dangers, then, of this project of the Adria Society if it were to come to life in our territory. if we are not just talking about our sea, so to our blue Croatia, we are also talking about our continent. and about our green Croatia, through which I've been passing the pipeline. We have heard that the danger of polluting the soil there and polluting the water, and it is known that we are and we like to boast that we are in the world in Croatia among the richest with high-quality water sites. In my opinion, therefore, we should not tie this very high and plan to Croatia with such pipelines, but to something else, which is to connect the economy and the agriculture of our economy. So our agriculture with potentials on our sea. And so the condition for that is to preserve our natural environment and clean sea. There are two possible incidents at sea during the operation of this project. One potential danger is the spilling of oil into the sea, in the event of a tanker accident. And the other one heard us drop the ballast water. From the same tanker. What's the difference between them, then? We can't predict whether we can get to these different ecological incidents, but what we're sure is going to happen all the time and now it's happening to our Adriatic Sea, it's that even now tankers and in the future it's going to do more, it's going to drop that ballast water. So let me repeat that the ballast waters are water used by boaters so that if they don't carry the cargo safely they can sail. This is especially true for tankers, who regularly sail empty in one direction. It is instead of oil transport and up to 10,000 tons of seawater. Which is dropped at the end of the road at the boarding ports. Every year, over 10 billion tons of ballast water is released into port areas due to intensive maritime traffic. This huge amount of ballast water is key for now the unsettled environmental problem of global oil transport. This project envisions exports of Russian oil through Croatia. I mean, she's thinking of Krk. At the same time, imports of more than 5 million tonnes of annual ballast waters of unknown origin into the port of Omisalj. This estimated amount of ballast bilge is greater than the amount of ballast water imported by all Italian ports together, all Italian ports together import i.e. About 4 million tons of such water is released at their proximity. So in Omis, that would be about 5 million tons. Thus, the release of these balasic waters at the port of Omisalj will pose a constant risk of irreversible adverse consequences especially for the area of the Kvarner Bay, Istria and the entire Adriatic aquarium. There are many examples in the world, therefore, where there have been negative consequences on the natural environment, especially on these aquariums. So, for example. Australia's ports have identified more than 250 foreign species of organisms that are very aggressive, colonize new space and suppress domicile species. Such thousands and five hundred square miles of the Gulf of Australia, Fort Filip, literally stifled by large colonies of the North Pacific star. The biomass of these stars, more than 100 million units of the larger total mass of all bay fish actually endangers them. Fisheries also suffered in the bay of San Francisco due to the biological invasion of Asian shellfish whose density of population periodically crosses 10 thousand units per square metre. Similar ecological and economic incidents threaten the coasts of France, Italy and Croatia due to the intense reproduction of tropical algae also believed to have been introduced into the Mediterranean area by balasic waters from overseas tankers. Unfortunately, there are areas in the Croatian aquarium where the problem is particularly expressed so that there is simply no answer so far that these algae can be fought. We see, therefore, that in the world we have concrete examples of how these balasic waters have a negative impact on the environment. And that's definitely going to happen or maybe even happen in our sea. And in order to prevent that, my personal position is therefore that I will not support the project "The Society" "Adria" which would increase the amount and therefore drastically import these ballast waters into our aquarium. What should therefore be done, therefore, given that it is local and national interest to declare the problem. I think, first of all, of the referendum, to hold a county referendum and a referendum throughout Croatia. We think it is very important for citizens to make a statement about this because it is a huge risk that can endanger the economic interests of the Republic of Croatia in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29951	Thank you very much. The students and teachers of the Srdocje elementary school from Rijeka came to visit our Parliament, so we welcome them. ... Now it's Mr. Representative Pero Kovacevic's turn. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29952	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start my presentation with one fact, which is that with 80% of the trade deficits we cover from tourism. So 80% of the trading deficits are covered by tourism, with only 43% of our export coverage. And now you imagine the case of one harria tanker, Croatia is on its knees. One tanker, we lose tourism for years, for years, it should be clearly highlighted here. And now what's going on? So you see what the stakes are, so not just, I'm talking about this, we're not talking about ecologicals, not environmentals. What's the stake? And what do we get? The question is, are we gonna get that $10 million? Then you can't talk about how we're going to lose 100 jobs, we can lose everything and those 100 jobs, the state will collapse and we'll all starve. So that's what we're talking about. And I wish President Mesic, now current and current at the moment, when he visited India to visit that part of the sea in Bombay where Mr. Luka Bebic and Anto Djapic were and he would see the situation in one sea, as polluted, and he went to the elephant orphanage with some of the other representatives here, which is fine. If he'd gone to that sea, maybe he wouldn't have lobbyed for this project, maybe I wouldn't have lobbyed even though I wasn't sure about it. And now the sadder fact that I hear here especially from parties supported by President Mesic. It says one of the arguments, and others pollute the Adriatic, and others pollute the sea. So what argument do my people make to you? So what kind of argument is that? Well, I guess you clean up first in your backyard. Has God given us this beautiful land and we must pollute it, destroy it. So we know where we came from with the destruction. And so the argument is, so when others do it let's do it and we destroy it. So do you think about the future of your children, your grandchildren, here are these children? Where will the Rivers bathe if that is the case, so that when the other ones pollute, let's go too? For some lousy $10 million. And that's what the mayors of the Istria area of Dalmatia think. So where's that gonna take us? Where's that going? I'm wondering here now. Where does that policy go? Where's the end of it? And now watch the talk is about a study of environmental protection and environmental impact. We know when the treaty was signed. Nobody said anything about her, now it's done. And now, you know what it's called right, there's a colleague named Josipovic, a management with a warrant, a management with a warrant. You let people make you, pay them, and you know what you're gonna get. The matter is very clear, it's management with a warrant. ... He's with us, and he's with you in Osijek. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And now let's go back to the ballast water. We've heard a lot of arguments, real arguments. So tell the people we can get both hepatitis and cholera so it can be brought in. For 10 million, they would have afforded it to the people. What do you care about the people? People remember when the elections are and then forget them again and then remember when the elections are. So do not speak in the name of the people. The people have chosen you. Think about who chose you. Will you deny these children a bath on the Adriatic? Will you deny it to their grandchildren? You obviously want to think like this. Obviously you will. And that's what's very sad. So let's be serious, the situation is more than dramatic. And it's not too late now, it's too early, it's a good time, nothing's too early. It's always too early for all of you. We're always working on the subject, it takes you two to three years at best six months to get to it. And now colleague Stazic says Slaven Letica uses it for her promotion. So is it promiscuity, it is a healthy promotion if it will protect Croatian Adriatic And everyone uses, say, the POA case President Mesic uses in a way to share state secrets and everything else. [[Intruder: That's right...]] It also includes, say, Racan, who says that his wife was listening and following the POA, and he was head of the service team. So what's the situation? And then it's said, he was the boss at the time and said that at the time his wife was listening to the secret service. So how was the boss? It doesn't mean anything. So let's be aware of the situation and think about the future of these worse children, your children, your grandson, your great-grandson because we lose everything with one move. 80% I say at the end I repeat the deficit in the trade of goods we cover from tourism. The stakes are huge. And I get nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29953	Thank you. Before a correction to an incorrect quote, the applicant's representative shall address it. Mr. Representative Marin Jurjevic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29954	The incorrect quote of counterpart Pera Kovacevic, who cited "how parties who support Mr Mesic in these elections claim to be," I quote him "so when others pollute, let's do it too". That's not what my dear Pero said, it's really tossing the most ground floor way of the campaign into this hall and Mesic who has nothing to do with this right now. What, unlike Pere, I live at sea, even from some Dalmatians living in Zagreb, I live in Split. And now I hear here, what do you care about the people, what do you care about the sea? People remember when elections are, so give it to a kindergarten such demagogy. So are the citizens so stupid that you think that they will fall for us to pollute the Adriatic, and behold, you alone are the avant-garde who six months before what Pero says is enough of what we are in three years later. Ma Pero, my dear, and then in the end, your children are clapping up from the balcony, because you say you want to forbid these children to bathe in the Adriatic. My pen I bathe every summer, every day in the Adriatic, I don't know if you've been down there, and these children are certainly the last ones from Dalmatia to ban it, and the first ones we'll make possible and fight for that Adriatic, certainly more than those who don't live on the Adriatic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29955	This is more of a replica than a correction to an incorrect quote. But if we're all actually doing it, then there's no point right now in this case. There's one, Mr. Tadic. You've given up on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Representative Professor Dr. Slaven Letica on behalf of the promoter. Excuse me, then, Mr. Letica, and it was a replica. Whose exposure didn't I notice? Kovacevic, go ahead, Mr. Peru.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29956	You see, dear colleague Kovacevic... What kind of argument is that if others contaminate. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] We're actually the opposite of you, I assure you that the Adriatic is being protected in an integrated manner, and it's ruining the partial and that's the thesis that you have to accept. Let me remind you that it's a sea side that has 138 thousand and a half square kilometers, which is 783 kilometers long, which is the largest width of 217 kilometers. In this area live, i.e. the countries of Croatia, Slovenia, Italy, Serbia-Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Albania, and part of Greece if you want a small space in world terms can only be protected integratedly, and destruction can be partially destroyed. That is why we are exactly the opposite of what you stand for and what your disciples certainly want to bathe in the clean sea. But I assure you that we advocate that all students of both Croatian and Italian, both Slovenian and Serbian and Bosnian can bathe in that same Adriatic sea, because we are for its integrated protection. It must be integratedly protected. And when it comes to the Adriatic, all decisions must be made by consensus of all coastal states living on the sea. And that's why we're exactly the opposite of what you're up for, I'd dare say for collecting political points, putting garbage under the carpet, and not solving the problem of protecting the Adriatic, which we stand for in particular. Here's the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29957	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29958	You put it under the rug because you were in power, HSP was not in power, and the best answer you got from students and students from Rijeka. And around this part, if it wasn't for Mr. Jurjevic and you said, you should have listened to Mr. Linic and Stazic, you weren't in the hall what they were saying, they were just saying that the Adriatic is polluting, that it's polluting from all sides, so so so let's go, too, if it's polluting. So, listen, or you can make a deal at the club, and then you can replicate after that. And we've always been clean and consistent. We're the first to go that the Adriatic must be protected, 80% of us deficits are covered with tourism, Mr. Peru, 80%, do you know what it is? And where do your debates lead?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29959	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Letica, on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29960	Mr. Vice President Baby. I think it's just a two-world look. One is a difficult industrial worldview that has also shackled the Adriatic into various industrial plants since the Long War, where Jurjević is not yet bathed to the north until Omis, where the first such project was built there in 70 and some years, and then the destruction of various Kvarner bays that were traditionally the ecological hearts of Europe. I came out here to read an open letter to the Parliament, sent by the Council of the Franciscan Communities, signed by Sister Francisco Molnar, who asked as a follower of St. The Francis of the Protectors of all the birds of the earth and of the sky and of all the grasses, of all the animals against whom Damir Cain was so rudely spoken, and of the fish that praise God still dwells in the Adriatic, and upon whom this dark heavy industrial consciousness is being overcome, which are the victims of many here men and I do not blame you, because you are so educated from the pioneer days to today. And that's why the agreement was signed in 2002, without any previous scientific research that you are now insisting on as any possible argument. So, working bodies, i.e. The committees of the French Communities of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Franciscan Institute of Culture of Peace representing all 19 women and men's regular communities of the provinces as well as the Franciscan World Order, including the Franciscan Youth gathered at the annual consultation in Split from 12 to 14 November 2004, considering the information available on the project "The Society" and "Adria". Conscious of your Christian and civil responsibilities and motivated by your Franciscan sensitivity to everything created and world, on the one hand, expressing your concern about the fact that the public did not manifest itself clearly. First, so far, the Adriatic pipeline carried oil that was arriving in Omisalj tankers that were landing oil there and loading the Adriatic relatively clean seawater into their balas storage facilities. Secondly, according to the new project, the export highly sulphuric, highly sulphuric Russian oil exports to the Croatian pipelines and terminals in Omislje, Krk, the situation has changed significantly, as tankers would now sail to the Adriatic with ballast waters from other seas of different biological composition and pollution, and that these large quantities of water would be thrown into the Adriatic before oil is loaded. Thirdly, in these ballast waters, many intense species, bacteria and viruses that are able to disrupt will often survive and destroy flora and fauna in the Adriatic as has already happened in the Black Sea or North American Great Lakes. Fourthly, the increase in transport by tankers through the Adriatic will increase the risk of shipwrecks and other habitats that would permanently pollute tens, so that hundreds of kilometers of coast will be Croatia's Adriatic neighbours. Furthermore, in order for possible earnings from this project to be incomparably less than tourism revenues in the Quartet alone, it is very unlikely that any of the neighbouring Member States of the European Union could accept this project simply because it must comply with the strict rules of environmental protection of the European Union. On the other hand, members and members of the work bodies of the Franciscans are amazed at the first thing that since studying the impact of this project on the environment which has been commissioned and funded by JANAF, even though it is already carrying out works on this project, only a summary of one part of the study has been revealed, although the Minister has promised to publish the entire study. Furthermore, as the Croatian Parliament does not declare itself on this project although it is white that it must have financial consequences for the Republic of Croatia because on the one hand JANAF is a public enterprise and on the other hand the state will have to participate in the resolution of possible seas and, in particular, the immeasurable damage from ballast waters. This is why members of the Franciscan communities as citizens want first to disclose the entire study even though they realize that certain and very small works may require discretion in order to protect the security of citizens, so as to ensure the right of citizens to information and to allow possible civil or neutral counter-experience whether domestic or European. To be informed and asked about the opinion and neighbouring coastal Adriatic states according to the rules of the European Union and the duties of respect for neighbours, because the new influence of this ballast water and haiarium project must and may also threaten and hit them. Finally, due to the risk of this project in its own right for the entire Adriatic and all economic activities on it after the assessment of the ministry's assessment of this study, not only organizes public insight into the study and opinion of the ministry but also a broad public debate and then a referendum in all coastal counties which would decide to accept or not accept the risks of this project. And in the end, the Franciscans thank each other. So that's how you see serious things. The Franciscans were always historically interested in the natural environment. It's not politics, Mr. Linic. So it's about the future of these children who have expressed their views on the whole project and on the people who support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29961	Mr. Representative, it is not common to quote every word from the Croatian Parliament's pay phone, but as all opposition clubs and others agree if it is a matter of discussion on the issue on the agenda and this is in the agenda, then we think it would be all right. But I think it's a letter-to-letter quote, though. ... I admit it's beautifully written, but here's what I'm saying. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But here's thank God I think it's all about the common goal of getting the right solution. Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Slavko Linic's turn here, but since he had it on behalf of the club, it's probably part of it, and he's already discussed it. Now it's Mr. Agent Nikola Ivanish's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Imported promoters, State Ministers! By declaring myself on this initiative of the Croatian Party of Rights, I would like to express some of my opinions, such as the one who lives in the area of which the project "The Society" on "Adria" specifically concerns but I would also like to say some opinions on behalf of my party, on behalf of the coastal-goran alliance. I absolutely want to start by saying that personally and as a party, we have large reserves according to the project "Society" and "Adria" for a simple reason because we hold and accept that in the process of entering the project "The Company" and "Adria" did not approach the way it should and the rest was open a whole series of questions including when the project was commissioned, who ordered the project and how it goes when he was interested in ordering the project. However, when it comes to the view that we should take the project for a reason because someone else will take it, I personally believe that it is an argument that should not be used in a serious debate. If we have to take the project because someone else doesn't take it, then it's actually worth the project to me personally questionable. Also, today's debate here has been discussed in one part of the debate very seriously about re-industriousisation. I would say that in a way completely inappropriate about re-industrialisation which could be called the re-industrialisation of Kidric's age where it cried for the metal industry and I don't know what else, for chimneys on the Adriatic. I believe that the development of the Republic of Croatia for the future is such that there will be no re-industriousisation of the Adriatic and that the development of the Adriatic will eventually be based on the software industry, on retaining the profitable parts of today's industry, but there can be no speech on re-industrisation of the whole of the Adriatic and especially not of the Quartet. As for the claim that we all share the same concerns for environmental protection that has been said, I think the debate right now shows that we do not all share the same concerns and that we are not all equally responsible for making decisions. And the decision on this project today or within a few months should personally be taken by the Croatian Parliament precisely for reasons because it is a decision of the highest national level and that decision cannot be avoided and the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament cannot be avoided either. Why today I absolutely do not support the Croatian Party's proposal of rights regardless of what I have maximum reserves according to the project? For the simple reason that a job done in a significant part is not finished. It is a question of study and it is a question that the overall expert, public and political debate ends and beyond what this debate is in the Croatian Parliament. I personally believe that the risks of this project are great and that even from environmental associations, they are not exaggerated by us, but I also believe that a part of today is said that the profession and the highest quality profession in this area can reconcile today's ecology but can reconcile it with development and what we need and that's work and jobs is such that we shouldn't prejudge, we shouldn't rush it. And despite the fact that the HSP's representatives were talking today about how some are always too early, I don't think the argument stands for this debate. This debate cannot be criticised today by those who claim it is too early. Without a complete discussion of the study in general, I don't think the decision can be made. For what? I have consulted on this subject myself and participated in some discussions. I also participated in the session Mr Kramarić spoke of which was very thorough, which was held in June last year, which was the whole case of the Society and Adria and secededed up in detail. However, our sad practice is that I don't know what it is, so 16, 17 months after that from that debate and from what has been quality carried out in it, we haven't really moved anywhere. We didn't move anywhere. For this reason, even after that debate, I also talked to several experts who had been working in South America and North America on the problem of solving the problem of balasic waters, and there are people from around the river, so I had the opportunity to talk to one of the leading experts on the subject. And somehow by sort of analyzing all the arguments put forward pro and vice versa, I'd say in conclusion. Four conclusions were imposed on me from everything, three were talked about a lot and the fourth was not mentioned. The first is the problem, the real problem of balasic waters, which in this case pose a huge and huge threat to the eco system and is a very simple answer. There are no 22 models of ballast water resolution. There are two of them in principle. Within these two can be a sub-class but there is a solution of balasic waters at sea, on board and at sea and there is a solution of balasic waters on land in a conditionally said facility. For us, it can be acceptable in the future, and I believe that this will be completed and said only to solve the balasic waters of the land facility. In any case, at least in my view, the available views of the experts would not be acceptable for us to solve the balasic waters at sea or on the ship itself that brings them. The Black Sea, the great North American lakes are a threat, absolutely and a reminder, and that is absolutely, absolutely clear. Secondly, what is very important for one such project, as much as it may seem to someone and banally, is the issue of piloting tankers in the Adriatic Sea. As a sovereign, we can make a provision that tankers who sail and will sail to Croatian ports from entering the Adriatic must be led by our captains, very important in terms of security. The third very important, also security measure is absolutely sooner than planned to introduce the double bottom obligation for the tankers entering the Adriatic. And the fourth thing, which some people have assured me about in the debates about the Company and Adria project, is something that has not been mentioned. With this project, the Adriatic pipeline is changing in oil flow. That's right! There are, I would say this in the House today publicly for the reason I hope it will inspire some people of expertise and competence to think about it and to check it out. There are alleged possibilities that are quite, quite serious that the change in the oil flow in our part of the pipeline is such and that it carries such risks in view of the current and pressures in the pipeline that this results in the risks of a disaster on the pipeline itself and that, according to the estimates of those people with whom I spoke, this is about the problem of that part of the pipeline where he from Gorski Kotar enters the Kvarner Bay. Apparently there is an example where an oil pipeline somewhere on the Black Sea coasts, I think in Ukraine carried out such a re-use and where it occurred in some parts after that re-purpose to the shooting and to the ecological disaster. I call on the very professional public on the subject that this aspect of the problem is also taken into account because, theoretically, the haemaria is not possible only on board, it is possible if the people who are expert on it. And this is what some people have told me who have been working on this Russia in the oil industry for years and years by pipelines, and it's supposed to be quite a real danger. And that's why I would conclude, really on my own behalf and on behalf of my party next. It is absolutely very important to complete a professional, public and political debate. But we can't do it with this seal a state secret on that study. I think that something that is of such total importance to the state of this level of national interest must be a public matter, not a state secret, and that after it has been carried out, as revealed, after a public debate has been held, a referendum is also legitimate in order to reach what is in the interest of all our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29963	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the gallery are students and pupils of the Institute and Technical School Faust Vrančić from Zagreb who follow our work, so we welcome them... Dear Representative Frano Piploic. [[Applause]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29964	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to start this conversation with the Parliament once, if it's unfortunate that these benches are empty and the subject is truly life-threatening, extremely important. It just shows how we approach this problem, this topic. I would suggest, Mr. President, if you would allow these gallery guests to allow them to sit in these benches here so that as long as this debate lasts, at least they can say which to defend their future. I am not, I am not expert on this issue, such as the professional colleagues who spoke before me, I am primarily thinking of Mr Tadic, the man of the sea, the future Croatian president, who argued about the facts and data for the defence of this topic, which is on the agenda today. Furthermore, in his earlier address, Mr Letica mentioned St. Francis of Assic and pointed out one fact in his life that he knew how to speak when people wouldn't listen to him if he knew how to speak to animals, birds. There's an anecdote that speaks, legend says it's St. Frano Assicski in the Asiz area, Tuscany tried to correct the sins of people of his time and his end, however, people as people did not want to listen to him as today do not listen to people who encourage this problem. And angry and disappointed he came under a tree and says the legend gave a great speech to the birds and the birds listened to him. I propose to Mr Letic and the HSPs who encouraged this topic in the Croatian Parliament to invite us to go to the sea, to turn to fish, shells, perhaps they will listen to us and I believe that the effects may be better then than the effects of the debate in this Croatian Assembly. I'm going to mention one more picture of my life. Namely, most of the learned people heard of Thomas Hops, and Mr. Hops was when the Army of Philip of Spain went to England he was then in the womb of his mother. And he says in his... in his famous part that while he was still in his womb that he was so afraid of the army that he actually had trauma and consequences later in his life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish that our youth and the overall Croatian youth had no consequence of the decision that the Croatian Government and the Croatian state will make and a proposal for this topic on the agenda today. Well, it's a good thing that you've been making such a fuss, I'm telling you, on purpose, about this project by the Adria Society. I believe that this noise will be translated into one systematic speech and that we will begin to listen to each other, that we will begin to respect the reasons that we are presenting, and then it is already one indicator that, to translate ourselves into a healthier, better organized society, rather than separate individuals who, who shout, are making noises. Some remain observant by saying more strongly what they were going to say, not by taking the strength of their argument. I think it's a good thing we started discussing this today in the Croatian Parliament and because this is how it points to the danger that we are potentially exposed to. We continue to give credit to all these little people who point to that danger, and these are people who are in various associations, who do what they do out of love, not out of someone's money. I believe they do it out of love for their end, for our environment, for our country, and it's also in a way that we can all say what we think about all of this, what's our priority here and how ready we are to listen to each other. In any case, after this debate, I believe that it will not be the same, that much will change in our heads, and that the effects of this debate will be so great that they will probably now start to think about the danger we face. The whole of Croatia is thanks to I say to this one, one scream of individuals on their feet. Here, I'll show you a few slices or a couple of newspapers. Here we have in yesterday's newspaper: "Let's stop the Company, let's preserve Adria". Then we have another topic of the day: "Replace Ballast Waters at Palagreža". Then we have "Balastic waters cannot endanger any part of the Adriatic." Or another clip: "The worst Calvary of studies keeps a negligible, negligible damage." I say I will not enter for professional reasons. I would like to respect the profession, but also politics cannot amnesty of responsibility in making a decision because it is final, but that decision should be based on expert findings, based on verifiable evidence, and not on mixing it, ready to go to the shorelands that are hard to check. In any event, the decision should be taken in accordance with several factors. This, first of all, should not be ignored by the Croatian public, means neither citizens, associations, media, local self-government. Another factor is the profession, so experts of all profiles for this problem, not just one question, and the other pass. And ultimately there is, there are economic and political factors, or orientation behind which the Croatian Government or the Croatian state, the Croatian Parliament, must stand. A few more things I think should be pointed out here, which were heard in the debate, so it wouldn't have been if it hadn't been said. Let's just say that I disagree with the fact that in advance disqualification is made of the findings of Croatian scientists no matter how much they have been abused so far, or that they have been forced somewhere or gone knowingly into this abuse, however, they should not in any way be offended and in some way impute that souls have been sold, that the moral thugs that are going to sell their morals for a handful of dollars, and thus the Croatian pearl or Croatian Adriatic. Another thing about making such a decision should not be to hide the public or the citizens, nor the effects of the citizens most concerned. And the clear work of the enthusiasts I was talking about earlier. And as a very important component here, we should also mention the issue of communication between the Croatian Government and its citizens because this communication should be responsible, communication of responsible partners. That something is not forced but respected by all those people who will wear it on their backs. And this, I'm gonna end up with this really is time to start listening to each other, to start, to let each other know what we have to say, and then we'll certainly understand each other better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29965	Thank you very much. I hope that also respected representatives of Slaven Letica and Tonci Tadic, I do not know if they will accept your appeal to speak to fish and birds. And distinguished representative Tomislav Culjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29966	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, it is good that this debate is open because from the moment the agreement on the integration of the pipelines is signed there is a question of the benefits and damage it would bring to Croatia. The project Adria, projected by Adria, provides for exports from the Russian Federation via Belarus, Ukraine, Slovakia, Hungary and Croatia to the port of Omisalj and 5 million tonnes annually in the first phase, 10 million tonnes in the second and 15 million tonnes in the third phase. The importance of the activities it performs, technical characteristics and possibilities as well as the favourable geostrategic position of the JANAF system provides Croatia with the opportunity to engage in international energy projects, thus increasing its influence in the oil industry, the economy of Central and Southeast Europe. It is important to stress that this international project does not in principle require the construction of a new infrastructure but uses the existing Adriatic pipeline system and its spare capacity. The current use of the system is 30% while the realisation of the project would increase the efficiency of Adria to 60%. The planned revenue could modernise the existing Croatian oil pipeline system and all of this makes arguments for the Adria project. But also the arguments that warn the dangers posed by the implementation of the project are not harmless at all. From the moment the agreement was signed, environmentalists have warned that the tankers in Omisalj would bring it, we've already heard it from the other colleagues, 5 million tons of ballast waters with about 7,000 kinds of microorganisms, and other incidents that can actually cause tankers are possible. In 2001, about 200 tankers were caught in the Croatian sea, of which 10% were over 30 years old. 50% is over 25 years old. And that is why many find it absurd that one such project wants to be realised in a tourist region that earns over a billion US dollars annually from tourism. And the annual income from this project would bring from 20 million in the first phase to 80 million in the third phase. Last year alone, more than 35 million tons of oil was transported to the Adriatic Sea. It is also important to wait for the completion of the environmental impact study to be completed. It is doubtful that, for the sake of the knowledge of the peers invested in the production of the study, it will contribute to the adoption of even more quality legal and technical measures, which are designed by renowned institutions and about 140 experts, regardless of the implementation of the project. That will reduce the risk of transporting dangerous goods to the Adriatic in general. The decision should be made by assessing anything that brings us more benefits or more damage, while the sea remains as clean and beautiful as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29967	Thank you very much. Does the representative want to propose a final word? Dear Representative Tonci Tadic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29968	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government. Today's debate was just as we expected the content and comprehensive when it comes to this extremely important problem, and it is to pour oil through the Druzba Adria oil pipeline towards the port of Omisalj and allow the Russian oil of the Adriatic Sea yes or no. HSPa's answer is crystal clear here, no. And for a number of reasons my colleagues held during this assembly debate. Since in the Croatian Parliament often talk only with this economic level then allow me to present the very economic characteristics of this agreement at the beginning of this short completion. It's fixed the price of oil transport. And it's exactly 64 cents per 100 km. No more than that. If the dollar of course falls it will be worth less to Janafu and Croatia. Considering that it will be transported in phases, 5 and 10, and 15 million tonnes of oil annually means that Janaf and the Croatian state as its owner will earn between 50 and 80 million dollars annually gross. That means a maximum of $10 million net of a year. And that's what we're actually discussing. If it wants to be modernised by a subsidising system for the admission of ballast waters in Omislja, more than 50 to 80 million dollars must be invested. Which means we don't know from. Whether to create a reliable reversible oil flow system. You need to invest an extra 70 million dollars. For his part, I would like to thank my colleague Ivanish for mentioning it. All the oil pipelines so far have been designed to be imported from the Omis 8il oil to the refinery in the interior. With this, for the first time, the oil flow changes on that pipeline from inside to the sea. So, of course, all the characteristics of that pipeline are completely unadjusted for what is planned. And that's the exact opposite of oil. It's necessary to do some of the parts of a brand-new pump station to test the pipes, and it's all worth another $70 million. Where's that gonna come from again? We don't know where it's gonna come from. I repeat the net profit of $10 million a year. So it's from just that economic picture that we get and the losses are unclear which way we pay off that investment. Unless it's a crop of another nature and that's what it's called. Under allegations of high policy, which is that Croatia is becoming an important factor in oil flows between Russia and America. But for us in HSP it's not the key for us is whether we're giving this project a threat to the Adriatic or not. I repeat of 6 signatories only Croatia carries the risk of transporting oil to the sea. Of the 6 signatories, only Croatia carries the risk of transportation to the karst area. And that is why these are the things that should have been taken into account when this agreement was signed by non-consulting experts in its signing and swearing to experts now that the agreement should therefore come forward. The consequences of this agreement can be in the right order of ballast water. Balas water in the Adriatic has, therefore, most of the balasic waters come to the Adriatic via Italian ports, something goes through the Slovenian ports of Kopar something goes to the anise of the port. But what they're saying is, in the Croatian ports, it's a million tons a year. In the Italian ports about 4 and a half million tonnes, and in the Slovenian port, neither 9 million tonnes. And this sproazum means 7 million tons of sam on our shores. So that's what we're doing with the implementation of this agreement if 30% of the tankers are ballast water and if we export as much as we're going to export oil annually then we're actually doubling the amount of ballast water in the Adriatic. And that's our side. What's the problem and, of course, it's about what's most likely being driven by ballast trains outside the Mediterranean. The colleagues who spoke before me mentioned the fact that Jadran closed the sea and colleagues Bebic, speaking on behalf of the HDC Club, mentioned the fact that the Adriatic is blocked by the sea within the large Mediterranean sea system, which is also closed. But inside it it takes over and less to move the same species of the same larva inside the Mediterranean pool. With this kind of project it is actually aimed at transporting oil through the overseas and bringing water to the empty tankers in balasic waters from the overseas habitats. That's how the exact same disaster happened that's being washed away here. The bigger one happened in the big lakes. In the U.S., it happens on the coasts of large exporting countries. Of course, these large exporting countries, like the U.S.A., mentioned fellow Letica, $183 billion in losses due to ballast waters. Part of those losses compensate. But from what we're going to comment here with this ridiculous little profit. There's talk about going to rebalting, we're rebalating not believing. And especially not in exchange for the balasic waters that are proposed around the Palagrega or on the very... Knowing that the direction of the sea is always such that from the open to go towards our shores. Or if they are at Palagrega to directly endanger the richest fishing zones in the Adriatic. Such a suggestion can be suggested by someone who has no idea of the Adriatic, or does not care about it because he has already received money for such a proposal. dIf, according to us, balasic waters Croatia can best be solved in order to prevent the cause of balance water and this is such a harmful agreement. Because so far, there are no scientifically reliable methods of removing balaic waters. Or what travels around with them, which was the microorganisms of marine animals, whether it's viruses or bacteria that travel in the mud of balasic waters. Of course, all of this brings us together to the question of a possible hangar tanker. What is particularly interesting is, according to our knowledge, an environmental impact study does not treat possible terrorist attacks on tankers at all. There is simply no, look out, we live in the time after 9/11, but our environmental impact study does not treat this problem. So it is believed that St. Nicholas, St. Ante and Lady of Sinjska will guard the tankers from Otrand to Omis and back. You know, I can't really believe something like that, and knowing that we're in a country that hasn't formed its own coast guard yet, it has some kind of coordination. That we are in a country that is scant to implement the economic belt and take full control of its half of the Adriatic. It means that we are in a country that has not yet launched a diplomatic initiative with the Italians in, or at least has not realized about the declaration of the Adriatic as a protected marine area, then they can only be skeptical of me and my colleagues in HSP in which the protection of the Adriatic from ballast waters and from the haematium of tankers will be actually implemented. The oil supply to this pipeline is not intended to supply our refineries because if it were, then the end of the pipeline wouldn't be in Omislje, it wouldn't be anywhere, and it doesn't seem to be the end of the pipeline in Sisak or some of our refineries. It clearly states that the oil terminal in Omislje is because it is not planned to supply our refineries and all refineries through rather than plan to export oil. Someone from that pipeline will, of course, take something, but the catch is that the ultimate goal is to export oil. Exports of oil to our sea where, I repeat, of all 6 signatories, only Croatia is at risk of having a harri of tankers and ballast waters. And that's irrelevant, and that's irrefutable. This is unquestionable, no matter what the environmental impact study says. Because I am sure that the study will show that only Croatia bears this risk, that there is a clear risk of balastic waters, and besides what we managed to dig up from the study, it is quite clear that the risk of colera is open, that there is an open risk to the introduction of marine microorganisms, liqueurs, sea organisms liqueurs, algae, so these single-cell algae and that they are very high public-health risks. That's what the study says. That reason itself should be enough to give up such an agreement. And now I don't know what else to wait for? The economics thing doesn't walk, there's an increase in the hangar tanker, it's obvious, and part of the study that's most important to us, which is public health, it's our children's health, our bathing tourists, our fish that we eat are clearly negative. That's what the study itself says. Therefore, we have nothing more to wait for. The study itself provided enough information to break up the agreement and make Croatia come forward. So, all those who want to protect the Adriatic, we believe that they will support the proposal for the conclusion of the HSP's Club of Representatives on the step forward of the Republic of Croatia under the Agreement "The Society" and "Adria". But I also ask you to support our proposal for a Coast Guard Act, to support our initiative to set up a crisis centre at sea, to support the initiative that we have already launched, to make the Adriatic Sea Area protected, but also to support us for a few months when we refer to the Parliament for ratification of the new balastic waters conventions. So we'll see if the Company and Adrian can be implemented with such strict provisions of the new balastic waters conventions. So please, and I urge you, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSP, to support our proposal for a conclusion on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Agreement "The Society" and "Adria". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29969	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am now voting in favour of the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the Project for the Integration of the pipeline "The Society" and "Adria". The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System delivered an opinion at the request of the HSP Representatives' Club on the proposal for a conclusion by the HDZ Representatives' Club on the postponement of the vote on the Proposal for Conclusions of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the Project of the Association of Oil Integration "The Society" and "Adria". I am voting on the committee's opinion. Please engage. You can vote. Score. I find that with 72 votes in favour, six abstentions and 27 against the board's opinion accepted. We are now going to the Proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Parliament on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the Project for the Integration of the pipeline "The Society" and "Adria". The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the HDZ Representatives Club, I shall first give the following conclusion to the vote. "The vote on the Croatian Parliament's proposal for a conclusion on the withdrawal of the Republic of Croatia from the Cooperation Agreement on the implementation of the Project for the Integration of the Oil pipeline "The Company" and "Adria" is delayed, proposed by the Association of HSP Representatives until the completion of the Commission's work on environmental impact assessment for the project "The Society" and "Adria". Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 82 votes in favour, 5 abstentions and 9 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29972	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Without, of course, questioning the importance of this topic that has just been discussed here in the Croatian Parliament, I believe that the long-term issue of the position and perspective of the development of local self-government, decentralisation of the state is actually an equal or actually more important issue. But this is a question that is in some way in the shadow of these large political issues that arise in our social life which I think is not good for the country itself because the development of local self-government after 14 years of democracy, after the uncontested centralised of the Republic of Croatia, I think is a matter of moment and general trend in the world. Therefore, we from the Clubs LIBRE, HNS-PGS and fellow LS representatives have proposed this proposal for a conclusion that is before you and which, in our opinion, shows the position of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, gives parallel experience primarily in European countries, because Europe is actually a cradle of local self-government and, of course, points to some perspectives that should be achieved in the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to follow in that order within the time frame that's foreseen with these sounds of music behind my back, so what's in the written explanation. Given the position of units of local self-government, therefore, the fact remains that the Republic of Croatia is a highly centralised country, and we will seek to prove this claim by analysing the number and size of units of local self-government, the competence of local self-government units and the financial strength of local self-government units. As for the number and size of units of local self-government, it should be said that it is somewhere on average Europe, so that fact itself, so 540 units of local self-government would not actually be a problem. But the problem is when you move on, so you look at the competences of the local self-government unit and their ability to exercise them, then unfortunately you get a second conclusion. Over the past years, the number of units of local self-government has grown slightly, which, therefore, is not much to talk about, but the number of cities in that period has increased by about 65%, and in fact, these cities have no special competences but only the fact that they have become cities. Which then presupposes some sort of symbolic folklore element, and it's actually not an indication of the strengthening of local self-government. So, the number of municipalities has been falling, a large number of municipalities have turned into cities for the past 11 years since the law was passed, but only in this symbolic sense, I would say, the folklore sense, the folklore level, and actually, that didn't mean an increase in the actual force of those units of local self-government, which of the municipalities became cities. The responsibility of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia is also not particularly high. It mainly concerns these standard issues and the competence of units of local self-government, such as health, education, social care and culture, but our units of local self-government have not fully exhausted their competences and in particular some other competences such as the economic life of the local self-government unit, the economy in this area, such as environmental protection, spatial planning, etc. All of what I'm talking about, so all of these fundamental claims that local self-government in the Republic of Croatia is underdeveloped shows actually their financial strength. The financial force of all units of local self-government and regional self-government, i.e. the regional self-government, accounts for only 14% of the total public revenue, i.e. the expenditure of the Republic of Croatia. Which means, in fact, that the Republic of Croatia is, by this criterion, in the lower home of the member states of the Council of Europe. Ten years ago, it was in 30 places from 40 members of the Council of Europe. Today, the situation is unfortunately not better, because the general trend in Europe is the increase in income and expenditure of local self-government units in public income and expenditure, and with us this figure is 14% of the last 11 years and is actually stagnating, it does not increase, it does not decrease, but it does not go forward, and all of it is actually harder when more than 14% of the 14% is therefore almost half the city of Zagreb. So, in all the remaining 520 units of local self-government, 540, so all of our counties, all our cities, all our municipalities are getting a little bit more than 7% of public income, which is an exact information that tells us that the Republic of Croatia is a highly centralised country, and local self-government is underdeveloped. Another information that confirms this is the issue of income from local self-government units. The income unit of local self-government in Croatia has mainly been allocated or the total revenues of the unit of local self-government, except for the cuts that make up a small part of the funds, in fact do not have their own revenues. These are the revenues they decide on themselves, which they prescribe, whose rates they decide on and, of course, they can correctly achieve the will of citizens in the field of units of local self-government and, of course, plan their own policy. There is no such thing in Croatia. In addition to the cuts that units of local self-government independently question not a single tax and income in the local self-government unit fall under the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government units and therefore is not their own income or their own tax, which, of course, adds to the fact that units of local self-government do not have their own original power and cannot run any original policy. As far as regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it should be said that regional self-government in Croatia does not actually exist. Countys can't be regional self-government units. In the Croatian Constitution, the time stood at a time when Croatian counties were formed was the principle that they were the expression of economic, transport, cultural, etc., historical, and they were formed dominantly by, resulting in some political relations, they are too small to be considered units of regional self-government. And some reports and some findings actually talk about it, which is therefore a report from the Croatian Law Centre which has been doing one analysis of our local and regional self-government in collaboration with the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The report says that the counties are a barrier to the country's economic development. So we are not that we cannot achieve what is necessary, which is the purpose of regional self-government to meet at that level, so all of those needs of citizens including, of course, certain elements of transport, regional economic development, but those of which are fragmented are actually a barrier to the economic development of the country. It is, of course, a big problem, but it is not a problem that is specific to Croatia alone. While regional self-government has major disputes about how to develop it because it is related to a number of political issues, local self-government is more or less clearly defined and every country in Europe, so in Europe, I am mostly talking about parallel experience moving through the development of local self-government and there is no dispute about it. What was the context in which I spoke European experiences? So in terms of units of local self-government, the Republic of Croatia is here somewhere, on average in Europe, given its size and this problem of too many units of local self-government, as there is a public perception that this is not because of the number but because of their strength, many countries are meeting. So over the past 10 or 20 years, there has been an attempt in many countries to reduce the unit of local self-government, but the process has largely succeeded only in Scandinavian countries. The Czech Republic is trying to address the problem at a legislative level so that the new law sets a minimum of a thousand inhabitants to establish units of local self-government. In 98, Greece also carried out a proper reform and reduced the number of units of local self-government from slightly more than 5 thousand to slightly above 1 thousand, which is approximately the same data on average, given the size of the country and what the Republic of Croatia has. It's indicative of extreme examples, which is actually saying that in the sense that we don't stand badly in numbers, it's France that has 36,000 551 units of local self-government. So more than all the other European countries combined. And the Czech Republic, which is therefore twice as big as the Republic of Croatia, has as many as 6 thousand 244 units of local self-government. So more than, 10 times more than Croatia with about 80% of these units of local self-government than tens of thousands of people. As regards the competences of local self-government units, I note, therefore, that with those of the standard competences of the units of local self-government that I mentioned, which is education, it is social policy, it is culture and it is health care on a larger scale than Croatia. There are local self-government units and spatial planning and environmental protection. In Croatia, that is unfortunately not the case. And of course, we should only in this regard, in terms of these fundamental areas of authority of local self-government units to reach European countries, and then only possibly go to this step in terms of competence on spatial planning and environmental protection. For example, in some countries such as Denmark's local self-government units do not only have a founding right and ongoing maintenance such as in Croatia at primary school institutions but also participate in investment maintenance, they play a prominent role in managing educational institutions in terms of participation and financing part of teacher staff's income, selection of directors, etc., which is not the case in Croatia. Therefore, in this sense, Croatia is unfortunately not able to measure with Europe, and if measured then it falls back into the bottom half of these positive experiences of the European countries. As for the financial forces of local self-government units in Europe, the generally accepted average is 22.12%. So above 20% of local units, countries, 22% in Europe countries is the average participation of local self-government units in total public revenues. I just said it's 14% in Croatia. So it's absolutely insufficient. And there are extreme cases of countries where the share of local self-government units is greater than 50%, greater than half of all public revenues, and such countries were, therefore, mainly countries from northern Europe, whose experiences I was talking about in this regard. With regard to the types of income of local self-government units in Europe's own taxes, I repeat these are those taxes that the local self-government units independently question or do not question, determine their rate and, of course, they can plan their use is about 50%. Which, of course, is much more than that in the Republic of Croatia. And common taxes, which are those that share the Republic, i.e. the central state and units of local self-government, form a smaller part of the income. However, according to those criteria laid down by the competent authorities in Europe, the Council of Europe is still too large a share of these common, or assigned taxes, especially a large share of the transfers. In particular, dedicated transfers that do not therefore give units of local self-government and the ability to decide for themselves how to spend that money, but rather to be granted by the state for a very specific purpose. Therefore, it is difficult to talk about local self-government in this regard, but only in the performance of those tasks and those of the affairs and those of the policies that the central government has set up. It is therefore a general trend in the world and a demand for modern times of development of local self-government to, therefore, reduce the share of transfers of particularly dedicated transfers and central states as much as possible. In this regard, again, an interesting example is the Nordic countries, where income tax as their own income, the income of units of local self-government not sharing with the state, accounts for even more than 90% of the total income of local self-government units. In this regard, it is interesting to mention that the clubs of representatives of LIBRE, HNS PGS and colleagues from LS have just proposed here to the Croatian Parliament two laws that are not accepted. One law is the Income Tax Act, which makes full income available to local self-government units. Of course, there would be some of the powers I was talking about. And the second is a full-on income tax. With profit tax is a particularly big problem, because profit tax is the income of those units of local self-government whose territory is the headquarters of a company, even if it is a company in every sense in human resources, infrastructure, environmental, etc. In fact, it exhausts the units of local self-government, and those of that tax have no use at all. Therefore, it is certainly a trend that will also be accepted by Croatia's policy on units of local self-government, of course the question remains when. Both of these laws have been rejected by the Croatian Parliament and unfortunately questions when they will again, when they will be accepted, will easily come back to..., we will try to re-propose them as soon as business opportunities are achieved. But unfortunately, it seems to me that our orientation is that way, since we've spent these last days so-called days. mini tax reform, I don't know what the reform consists of, but it is called, in which it is evident that the state retains its basic policy on the distribution of funds, these two important taxes between local self-government and the central state, which means that some more serious reforms and allocations of funds, unfortunately, are not spoken of further. As far as regional self-government in Europe is concerned, it should be said that there is a particular problem, that's what I'm talking about. Even the past 10 years have failed to reach agreement on the European advantage of regional self-government. Even a unique definition could not be reached, which is regional self-government. Because regional self-government touches a lot of political issues, touches a lot of bankruptcy rights and relations, but there are still trends in the world, or Europe, and that is, first of all, when the right units of regional self-government cannot be reached, then the states find a way that units of local self-government in some way stimulate or even partially force co-operate. So, that's the experience of Finland and Estonia, they form so-called. Regional councils with powers, which are not only declarative, conventional bodies, but have powers passed on to them by units of local self-government, but also have finances transferred to them by units of local self-government and this is the way to overcome the problem of creating units of local self-government and I think that should be in these circumstances when we can hardly expect Croatia to make an important reconstruction of its county structure, then this could be the way to achieving the idea of local self-government and in the Republic of Croatia. And the third area of this proposal, i.e. the justification, is the perspective of development. Even though European experiences are diverse and not all good, in European experiences, however, dominant trends can be seen and actually simplified, but very close to the truth of European experience in this regard are actually what should be the perspective of developing local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. We have, in that sense, suggested conclusions that actually follow a part of these perspectives. One is the establishment of a central body that will be responsible for preparing and implementing the country's decentralisation. This is said in the allegations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, whose representative is not here today. But as far as I know, nothing has been done. It is equally said that those provisions of the Charter on the Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe, which the Republic of Croatia did not ratify at the time of ratification, should be ratified. The government's explanation that the government actually respects these provisions, even if it is a problematic claim. Many of these provisions are difficult to confirm that they are respected. Even if the Republic of Croatia respects it, there is no need for the Republic of Croatia to be constantly warned in its reports on the state of local self-government of the Council of Europe that it has not actually ratified and that it does not implement the provisions of the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe. Therefore, I think the government's position is incorrect. I don't think it's true that the Republic of Croatia is implementing all the provisions. And even if he does, it wouldn't be bad for those provisions to be ratified. As for the number and size of units of local self-government, we should, of course, set criteria, and that is what we propose in our conclusion, which should be respected in the establishment of units, new units of local self-government, and that means some kind of restriction, some kind of legal minimum, let's say a thousand residents to establish new units of local self-government. And of course we're talking about the difference between big cities and municipalities. With us cities and municipalities have very similar competences, and of course it is not in itself good. We therefore propose that the authorities of cities and municipalities be differentiated, that cities have more competences, and that includes, of course, more financial strength than municipalities. But we especially plead for the introduction of criteria, i.e. categories of large cities, cities of more than 30,000 inhabitants who would then have special competences of course special financial power and who would then represent bodies or institutions in the Republic of Croatia where local self-government could be developed to the right extent. These are proposals concerning the number and size of units of local self-government. I repeat, the number of 540 is not too large, but the figure is that more than 30% of these units of local self-government are not able to fill their incomes with their most modest tasks talking about that number being too large. So 151 municipalities or 35.8% of our municipalities and 33 cities or 27% of all cities are not able to meet their most elemental needs, which then speaks indirectly of the need to approach the reconstruction of these units of local self-government. The unit of local self-government is only as its purpose, only as a decoration may have made sense at the time of its establishment but in the long run it cannot and should not be. As far as the local self-government unit's jurisdiction is concerned, I think that's where most of it's been said when I talked about what the experiences are. Therefore, there should certainly be increased competences with regard to these four fundamental powers and then, of course, gradually go towards extending the powers of units of local self-government such as issuing all documents of spatial arrangement, housing policy, building social housing, environmental protection, local police, animal health, fostering a healthy lifestyle, etc. by the fact that when these solutions are made, depending on what assessment of the ability of the units of local self-government to use these powers can be left to choose which of these powers they will respect. And finally, the financial force of the local self-government unit. Again, there is actually a very clear parallel to what I was talking about. It should increase its own revenues, also reduce revenues from subsidies from the central state and where it is necessary to remain these subsidies need to be subsidies of general purpose and to be stable, so that units of local self-government can plan their own jobs and not actually serve only the mere transmission of policies run by the central government and then there is actually a question of their autonomy at all if they have to spend the most of their income as decided by the central government then there is no talk about self-government. Then the units of local self-government are actually transformed into the executive bodies of the central government and, of course, it is not an idea and it is contrary to the basic principles of local self-government. Therefore, this is what the Republic of Croatia should certainly do. And I repeat, the key move will be made because the other incomes have symbolic meaning and do not actually have great positive consequences of the fundamental problem and the fundamental task that needs to be done, which is that two taxes, income tax and profit tax are fully left to the units of local self-government for repeating the proposal of clubs that have also proposed these conclusions and which unfortunately is not accepted in the Croatian Parliament and will therefore be re-proposed by these clubs to the Croatian Assembly for adoption. As far as regional self-government is concerned, I told you of course what to say. At this time, it is difficult to expect that there is power to achieve a new regional or county division of the Republic of Croatia as far as the claim is concerned that the counties are in fact an obstacle to economic development and all communications actually within the natural regions that this country has. I remind you, it's five Slavonic counties. Slavonia is a unique region, an undeniable region. Five Croatian counties in the east of the country have virtually no forms of co-operation and the same applies to four Dalmatian counties. So it's hard to expect, and it's certainly not going to happen right now, they're close to local elections, but in the perspective of course we need to talk about it. What can be done at this time is to adopt regulations that will implement stimulating, stimulating forms of cooperation between these counties on certain issues and thus in fact indirectly increase this regional component of our development with what, of course, exists in Croatia. historical traditional regions that are small, that is first Istria and that is Međimurje and in these historical regions as a natural part should not be touched at least according to the criteria of various European institutions, the Republic of Croatia could have up to seven regions. But I repeat, the experiences in the world are well known that those regions that are historically based, where there is a strong identification of citizens along with these small regions, they actually remain as regions. This, of course, concerns both Istria and Međimurje in the Republic of Croatia. And finally something about the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm sorry there are no representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia here. In this opinion, the Government of the Republic of Croatia notes that within a very short period of time than is requested by the Proposer to propose new laws concerning what is approximately the same in our proposal, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not done so. The government gave that opinion, it's been three months. The government says less than 90 days. However, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not propose these laws and the representative of the ministry is now the Central State Office for State Administration, which I welcome here at the end of my opening presentation, has also announced that a decision on the establishment of this body, which should be addressed by the model of compulsory association of municipalities and cities, will be taken to regulate the jurisdiction of large cities that have more than 40,000 inhabitants. Of course it's not 30 as we suggest, but it's definitely moving forward. And further transfer of jobs to units of local and regional self-government but neither. Nor did what the Government's representative said at a meeting of the Committee's parent committee for this area of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government and what the Government has promised in its proposal unfortunately has not been met. We've passed a change of tax laws, we've made a budget for next year. There's a meeting of this Parliament at the end of this year. It is therefore difficult to expect that there will be more serious interventions in this very important segment in the next few months, so before the local elections. So, of course, I call for attention and thinking about this problem, but it's hard to expect that by the next local elections, and that's the right time to make some serious move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29973	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government or the Committee on Rules of Procedure and the Political System want? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? Yeah. State Secretary Antun Palaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29974	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! The local self-government project in Croatia has fully succeeded. We, in difficult war circumstances, have also opted for the establishment of local self-government according to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. In this regard, the Croatian Parliament also concluded before the adoption of the rules governing local self-government when we were not yet a member of the Council of Europe. When we became so, we ratified the European Charter as many provisions as it has bound us with such a document, but in practice we went beyond that. Local self-government is being taken into account in the government, the government has finally established a Central State Administration Office, which is not only for the state administration, but is also responsible for controlling local self-government, but also for creating improvements in the local self-government system in Croatia. The government is ready to carry out decentralisation, the government is ready to pursue a balanced development of all parts of Croatia and, in this sense, as carriers, potential developers of development recognise, alongside of course companies, individuals and units of local self-government. We are at a meeting of the Government in Rijeka, because we are also visiting with government meetings outside the territory, outside of the city of Zagreb, we have shown that we care about regional self-government and local self-government where we always address issues of local and regional importance at these sessions. At that session, the government also tasked the resolutions to propose their decentralisation decentralisation responsibilities. And the resistors did it, we processed it, we united it, but it's not a simple job, it's not just a professional job, it's a job that requires huge material resources, especially when the program is implemented. So we decided on the concept of establishment, the adoption of a framework programme, he was already once, he went through the government's procedure to co-ordination, and later new ideas came up, and new proposals came up, and we developed it. The program was built, he went through all the coordinates again yesterday, and I expect tomorrow to be finally and adopted. In addition to the government programme, a list of all laws has been made, a list of all laws, sublegal acts to be amended to implement the programme, but we also propose the establishment of a decentralisation Committee. Well, that was the reason it hasn't been adopted yet because the original proposals from the ministries were unbalanced. Some ministries have proposed state secretaries, some ministerial assistants, some ministry secretaries, but some of them are chiefs, so we asked the ministries to raise the level of members of the commission to implement the decentralisation programme. We expect that this decision on the establishment of a commission will also be adopted tomorrow at the highest possible level, which will have a united role and political and professional level in one body, but most importantly, and I can say it openly, on this programme we want to work together with those involved, therefore with representatives of the national alliances of local and regional units and as members of the Commission for the implementation of the decentralisation programme, we provide for representatives of associations, cities and associations of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, representatives of associations of cities in the Republic of Croatia, representatives of the association of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, as well as two representatives of representatives of the unions. But that's not all. The government hosted a ministerial conference on local self-government in Croatia. Unfortunately, the media skipped or failed to take care of it, important documents were brought at the Ministerial Conference of the Stability Pact, which Croatia hosted. The conference included a national alliance of cities and municipalities of all neighbouring countries and presented a national programme for the local and regional self-government area adopted by the Croatian government at a session on 6 October 2004. Therefore, it is one valid document and the document obliges the Government to operate in the field of local self-government. We're opening the door of the office to the alliance of cities and municipalities. We, together with them, are implementing projects in local self-government, I would stress only the best practice project. We want together with them and to find the best solutions that will respond to Croatian opportunities that have proved to be good in the world. And in the draft, we have work material called amending the law and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. I can't, of course, present it now as the Government's proposal but about that, all solutions can be discussed, the office created it, aimed at establishing a model of functional integration of small units of local self-government, units of local self-government, insufficient financial potential because this is our main obstacle to development. We can't have small units like this that function each as completely autonomous units not leading the neighbour's research to go into further decentralisation. We need to open up space for them to connect, to join together, of course by preserving their political independence, their representative and executive bodies, but we need to give them a legal framework and an institutional framework to team up to implement projects of common interest. But, no longer, about the direct election of mayors and municipal chiefs and counties was a lot of words, the Prime Minister said that this model is currently functioning. I must stress that in the exercise of surveillance, we often direct local self-government units to legal work. Sometimes when there is no other option and when non-discipline is such or clear and firm legal provisions are fulfilled and we disband the representative body but not with the intention that through the Government's commissioners will rule the area rather than be cleared... The crisis and that, as soon as possible, they would call extraordinary local elections. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We had several divorces and whenever there were no lawsuits then it was within 60 days they held elections, when there was a lawsuit to the Administrative Court then we had to wait for the rightdoctor of the administrative court because it would not logically call elections if the administrative court abolished the government's decision to disband the representative body. I must also say that the administrative court, when we disbanded the representative body, confirmed the government's decision, or refused the lawsuit, therefore, is another proof that the government has been legally working in surveillance matters. So, as we estimate, we have analysed the conclusions proposed, we believe that the situation in local self-government is well known, that this special report should not be, we should not burden the Government's resolutions by writing a report on the state in local self-government that we all know about, and also, gentlemen, we do not have any requests from the Council of Europe that we go to further ratification of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. We are this conference that I have been talking about with partners from the Council of Europe and we have an extraordinary cooperation with the Congress of the Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, they are very often in our office, we communicate with them and I must say that they have expressed wonder that there has been no such cooperation as it is now. Here, I don't want to be any longer. I've taken a lot of time. Local self-government needs to be discussed, we respond to every expert meeting, we try to respect the proposals of local units and we will respect them in the future but it is a serious project in decentralisation and it will continue for the entire term of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29975	Thank you very much. HNS representative club, PGS, respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29976	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank the Club of Libre who offered us a joint document a few months ago to propose to discuss and adopt the Croatian Parliament, and it may seem to you that with this topic of local and regional self-government we are already bored because we have little and we have some proposals for any law, amendment of law or such a kind of conclusion, but it is simply a matter for us to discuss, discuss and seek the best solutions, because this is not a matter of mere formality of local and regional self-government as some sort of imaginary concept but rather a matter of how the local government will be organised in Croatia as regards the availability of citizens, subject to their criticism or to influence and influence on the quality of a part of life and standards from communal standards further, too important to be able to deal with it only when it comes to the rule of law. In addition, citizens' interest and candidateing respond to local elections, and often the crises that occur in representative bodies prove that citizens have great interests in this topic and that they do not care at all what legislative frameworks and regulations their municipalities, cities, counties and what policy further decentralisation is done by the central government, regardless of what work is done by us in Parliament, government or other state bodies. Mr. Secretary of State, referring to one of the proposed conclusions, said that Croatia has no request from the Council of Europe on further ratification of conventions on the subject. This is true and in the proposal for conclusions and explanations it did not say anything, but it is not likely that the Croatian state will only ratify international standards when someone makes us, demands or forces us to do so. Well, we're doing it for ourselves and our citizens, not the Brussels bureaucrats or Strasbourg. This proposal on further ratification has just gone in the sense that we have an internationally accepted standard for future regulations that we must bring to this topic in this House. In May next year, there will be local elections and I ask myself and Mr. Secretary of State and Government who gave their opinion on this proposal whether the citizens of this country will know before the local elections which are the new decentralised powers of the municipalities, city authorities and mayors, how much new tax money through decentralisation and instead of paying in the state register, in municipal, urban and countyal ones they have for those obligations that we have already imposed on them six months ago and that we have not increased one kuna for local self-government? Will he learn election legislation on the election day, or perhaps at least a day earlier, by which model the elections will be? Finally, what would be wrong with the Croatian Parliament getting exactly a report once a year on the causes, for example, why are there crises in individual representative bodies? Why does it take so long? Why is the model claimed to be the electoral challenge of the government crisis, and this explanation was the main one when twice, three times, our proposal has been rejected in the lead of direct elections for the mayors of the municipalities, mayors and mayors. And we left one electoral model that causes a crisis that leads to extraordinary elections in a number of municipalities, a little less towns and counties and all the arguments that are put forward in this sense come up with a great deal of resistance only with the argument that we haven't found the right solution to solve the possible cohabitation that would arise after the election if the leader were from one political option, the majority in the local parliament from another. Interestingly, they managed to solve all the neighboring countries. All our neighbors settled it, put in direct elections, and I don't know if it took them a year or two or three to find those solutions. What I still want to remind you is that our proposal recently rejected that the profit tax goes in favour of those municipalities and cities where profits are made, not where the headquarters is registered, the company's headquarters. I also remind you that it is still on the agenda that our proposal to amend the law on the financing of local self-government in which we propose that the full income from income tax be rerouted first to the Fund for the equalisation of decentralised functions at the level of the state and everything else in favour of municipalities and cities and counties and I want to believe that at least in the January session we will discuss. And how important that is just another reminder. Last week, the parliament passed a new Income Tax Act which increased the non-taxable share of the salary to 1600 kuna. At the same time, the government did not propose to change the way in which local self-government was financed, and only because of this increase in the untaxable part of the salary to 1600 kuna, which is in favour of workers and officials and tenants, municipalities and cities will lose around 320 million to 340 million kunas if we do not change that part of the rules urgently. So that's what happened. That law was passed, and this one on the financing of local self-government was not. The government's pre-accession economic programme for the period 2005-2007, adopted by the Croatian government at its session last week on local and regional self-government, does not suggest further decentralisation in powers or finance, but only talks about two aspects. One is bureaucratic in establishing 5 statistical Croatian regions, statistics to monitor certain data and plan to form a government office for regional development. And that's all. If so, this means that by 2007 and all new legislation that will come from this area will not be in favour of further decentralisation or of the power or opportunity for citizens to decide directly on more of these matters, nor will our municipalities, cities and counties receive more money. And yet something in the preparation of these laws does not seem to show the government's position since 2 September of this year, which was evident about this proposal and in which it was written. The Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose laws concerning local self-government reform before a 90-day deadline. The 90th day was 2nd of December of this year, and I don't remember giving such a bill by the government came to Parliament. And I'm afraid that December 2, 2005 will come, and that these laws will not be. In the context of the conclusions, we should be acceptable to the majority in this House by making it possible for the government to address this part of the problem with our proposals. And when it comes to the issue of electoral regulation for local elections that are in May next year, I think we should have that on our agenda in January at the last minute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29977	Thank you very much. Representatives' club IDSanctified representative Dorotea Pesic Bukovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29978	Dear President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. NO before I begin my presentation on behalf of the club IDS, I was offered the exposure of the secretary of state, related to the units of local self-government. And I must say, I come from Primosco, Mr. Orange County, who launched an initiative to form a national community of county. Because counties as regional units of local self-government since their county home was abolished have no co-ordination at the state level and have difficulty solving problems with central property. A county home like that when it was I don't plead that it should be like that but it should be traversed and left as a home of the region. NO, the county organized itself and formed the council of the county, and I think they are competent to talk to the central government. But we at Club IDSa fully agree that the Republic of Croatia is a truly centralised country. We are convinced that local and regional self-government is a fundamental form of non-dominated democracy, and gives the foundation of every democratic society. And thus comes the right of citizens to carry out their public affairs under local self-government. As one of its basic democratic principles. The IDS also uses this opportunity to point out that by developing the frameworks and ultimately giving its personal pain to local and regional self-government in a certain way, Croatia was approaching European integration. It's about declarative support, not real affirmation of regional self-government. Specially stressing the need for Croatia's regions to become more cooperative with the euro regions. Our Istrian rich sex in this field shows that Croatia can be properly integrated into all flows of European movements. And to lose on his national cultural and regional identity. Rather, it spreads and enriches Europe with all its values. In doing so, it develops its economic base. Although we have gone far in that field, we are still unhappy because we are in a certain way prevented by legislation. The best way is definitely direct and active cooperation with neighbours and partners in the European Union. But also with transition countries in our neighborhood. It is clear to all of us that the financial force of the units of local and regional self-government is the basis on which they are trying to fulfil the powers conferred upon them by law. Life experience on learning but the very mood of citizens is such a ladyerial good that is created in a regional environment remains to the greater extent available to local and regional self-government. The IDSA therefore supports the conclusions of the clubs of the representatives of LIBRE, HNSA PGS and LSA, but particularly insists that the selection of municipal mayors, mayors and mayors be direct through the same route as the selection of members of representative bodies and individuals. Finally, on behalf of the club IDS, I would like to mention that there is definitely a high level of identification of citizens with historical regions, and then when they are relatively small among other things, so is our Istria. So we think that future serious expert and political discussions on regional structure must be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29979	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Ivan Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29980	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with fellow ladies and gentlemen. There's already a lot of things being said, and I'm actually going to do it again. About forming a territorial structure of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia the debates are actually the council and our belief of HSS that there is one process that takes place. And with the indication that we are correcting it negatively and that we are putting positive examples or positive efforts into this law. Today, the state territory of the Republic of Croatia is divided into counties, cities and municipalities of all three spatial wholes differ by something. They don't really have a lot in common in any of their design work. For example, the largest county has the smallest population, the smallest town has less than 1,000 inhabitants, the largest population of more than 10,000 people. So we don't actually have one basic criterion by which we could say that any unit of local administration and self-wash is set up. Clearly, the need to take into account the historical features of the effort, the formation of settlement cities clearly then and local administration units, speaking to municipalities, counties and so on. Where, apart from these spectral geopolitical criteria, they were significant. Whether symmetric or asymmetric models are used for one or the other, they have their advantages and disadvantages. Whether it's grumbling about the number of inhabitants, the size of the master center of the geotransport centre, and so on. However, we must accept that by analysing the more recent development of local regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, the changes that have been made to the current structure of municipalities and cities and to approach the new structure so as not to contribute to greater efficiency in fulfilling their tasks, whether units of local administration or regional administration. We at HSS propose stopping the process of proliferation of new units and creating conditions, in which different incentives would direct the current units to joint action, with a view to better meeting the needs of the local population. In addition, all analyses of social, demographic, change in certain territorial units should be continued in order to create assumptions for the development and application of different criteria in determining the spatial dimension of units of local administration. I don't think they'd get anything. We'd get some new pleasures and a lot of those dissatisfactions. However, one looser, so to speak, by a looser structure, you don't have to, not under that imperative, by just finding a solution to those units that are directed at themselves, I think we'd get a better look of cooperation, we'd solve a lot of common problems in the same way, and we'd overcome those antagonisms and actually our reality of different development of economic power and at the same time of integration in a geopolitical or geostratical framework. And now the legal framework offers units to local administrations for joint action of their obligations. There are no obstacles, however no conjecture has been created, in fact they do not encourage such associations in the face of some random examples that have occurred in one way or another. As far as counties are concerned as administrative and administrative regional administrations, I think that in this part of its way, come on, it fills in one part, but in a large part there are also obstacles to more developed local units that could skip that stage and themselves in a way that they do not have to go in one order to achieve their goals. However, this raises the question of how to turn these county building units into regional ones. In HSS, I think we've skipped one structure in the sense that we've partyed, come on, set ourselves up for historical, regional units. It was already said whether it was this way 5 or 7, is it at some higher level. I think that such a regional self-government can easily be done in the Republic of Croatia without a great debate if it is not in the sense of centralised and in a way that it is managed again but that it as a region must demonstrate its characteristics and contribute to development. It's already mentioned, we're like a state highly centralized in every sense. I would now not repeat from the fiscal gross domestic product as far as it is realized, so how much to the central state, how much to return, etc., has already been said to be one negligible part. However, I must warn here that this local community is expected to carry development, that all those needs of the local population are ensured and in one part more than that, because the first thing is if the local community does not function and meets those basic needs then neither does the central government meet it. I think it's very important to discuss the fiscal power of every unit of local administration and that it's actually the point of that problem. Funding. To what extent and how? I am, here, 12 years head of a local unit where, apart from the obligations of the local community, the local community is not subject to the funds for those obligations imposed on it. The central budget does not distribute the funds in the manner in which the commitments come. I'm not saying it's to the extent that it can't be done, but there's so much pain in fitting all these different obligations. Well, we only had, if you remember 2002 or 2003 when we went to the register, that it wasn't the local community, the municipalities that didn't get involved. In fact, one problem that would never have been solved, and at least it wouldn't have been this way, even though it was a problem to solve if we hadn't opened our doors as the heads of the local administration because we felt this problem, that it had to be solved this way, etc. So the central question that we should agree on and I think that this is being discussed and should be discussed in the most responsible places is funding. Because if the development of a local community depends only on the inflow of funds made on this land of original income, then economic and any progress or development, the uniform development in the Republic of Croatia will not be. It must be, financing must be the basis for a balanced development of all areas of the Republic of Croatia, clearly in the fiscal part of the financing provided. What do we face as local leaders? I think these are the legal frameworks in which we operate. I think we should mention a lack of strong administrative and legal position of local self-government. This must be done in order to overcome these problems, legal status issues, jurisdiction, constitutionalization of the local one, application of the principle of subsidiarity, selection of the general clause in law, as legal methods for determining from this legal district, and that I am not now expanding the subject because the subject is absolutely too wide. I think it should be understood that this needs to be resolved. As HSS, we propose to consider a special legal act which would analyse this in detail because we only have amendments and additions to the law and even greater powers or obligations, however it is not quite said. Insufficient differentiation of the status of circuits of local self-government units which are objectively different in size, degree of development and other objective indicators. The same legal normative applies to those at least to the largest. In what sense and how, I've put three employees there in good time and one must be internal control. Who's the one who's been in internal control? I've been doing it on my own, and he's an employee himself. It's one legal void. The centralist orientation in the territorial system is still expressed. I think we need to think of it as a real situation, not that someone's giving it to someone, but that's the situation. Insufficient precise regulation of state control of various aspects of local self-government and the lack of legal protection of rights to local self-government is insufficient. I think we should discuss that too. Insufficient institutional capacity to operate local self-government units. So if you accept either a subsidiary or an obligator form, that I'm not discussing it because I'm not an expert, it needs to be precisely defined by law, and not once applies one, the other, and we who are playing the case, or that we are found in this business, we find ourselves in a variety of ways. In one word, this is a good club proposal to discuss or at least to analyze the situation in some way, to try to help the local community to revive it. Finally, the local community, but with the regional structure, must be our springboard for Europe because in the end, as the lady from Istria said before me, with Hungary we have the same cooperation, we have cross-border cooperation with the municipalities, but we also have the regions. But only at the county level. If it were a region of northwestern Croatia or if it were not known which other region that I do not now hurt someone, then we would have a stronger foothold of the general debate and the way we are set up. In one word, I think it is a good basis for discussion, and here is a sign from the State Secretary's Ministry to work on it, so here we expect that, in terms of legal legislation of financing of territorial structure, there are clear parameters, clear indications as to whether to leave the possibility of joining at local level interested people, are they in the field of sports, are they in the cultural field, are they in the political field or not. But it sucks, legally binding, legally binding that it's imperative must be done. It's important, because then the local administration would actually lose its meaning and they wouldn't have it at all, because then they would create a new structure that would be imposed by a legal framework. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29981	Thank you. We've finished discussing the clubs and we're moving on to a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. Zvonimir Mršić, too. Ante Markov, too. Jelena Pavići Vukicevic, too. Krunoslav Markovović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29982	Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State. Well here in 1993 is a significant time for the Croatian state because it was actually created at that time by about 400 municipalities. We know it's about a hundred and 20 cities I won't tell you because two-thirds is new, but one-third is old cities. And the territory of Croatia is partly occupied is divided into 20 counties plus the city of Zagreb with the status of the county. Croatia is a diversely populated country, so the population range in municipalities is, say, 300 to 17 thousand, cities from a thousand to almost a million, about the economic power not to talk. It is therefore difficult to split powers into cities and municipalities and decentralisation is not simple. So far, only 30 cities have taken care of schooling, no problems with professional fire, local self-government has taken over in kindergarten, co-financed school kitchens, social services, and often financed by health standards. Many local self-government units have very little income. However, I believe that the establishment of a large number of municipalities and cities is very positive as evidenced by the huge momentum of construction of municipal infrastructure from 1993 to today. Large centers did not build a periphery, so many abandoned suburbs as isolated municipalities and cities built more in a few years than for the previous 50. The chiefs from the poorest municipalities visited the ministries, Croatian waters, HEP, Croatian Post Offices, Highways, Roads and managed to elect new schools, infirmarys, waterways, trafostations, roads, telephone stations, arrange the place where they live, revive abandoned KUDs and solve a number of minor problems, clearly to the well-being of the inhabitants that had not happened before. It is normal that there, that democracy has shown its good side, but also its teeth because the delay in the progress of some municipalities and cities clearly characterized the party's dissension, making it difficult for the headship and the mayor to work. Declaratively, we are all for decentralisation, but in practice, it will certainly not be possible for a long time. If the government left the cities and municipalities with profit tax and a significant share of income tax, they would still get the richest. Well, I don't think small municipalities would benefit much from that. The abolition of small municipalities should be left to the inhabitants of these municipalities. So it's hard to make it legal. It is necessary to study how small municipalities in France, Czechoslovakia, which are prominent here as countries with large numbers of local self-government units work. I know there are also small municipalities in Germany, but there I was fascinated by envious cooperation. The expectations of our inhabitants that every municipality and every village must have an ambulatory, pharmacy, post office and so forth, so it seems more like a matter of honor and prestige. While there in Germany, I noticed that seven of these small municipalities are one pharmacy, one infirmary, and that's normal for everyone because saving is in the developed world priority. If we look at the real revenues of our units of local smogs, they are certainly insufficient to meet the expectations of the inhabitants. It is difficult to compare with the developed Europe, which is the most expensive development issues in our country, which means draining, water treatment, water network construction, road construction, waste dumps have long been solved and revenues can be used to edit places. While our residents are satisfied if they're being excavated by the badgers because they expect at least some basic communal standard. Finally, Pantovčak doesn't have the drain solved. Additional moves can be introduced by our cities, additional taxes, pardons, our cities and municipalities as well as in Europe. So we can do that if we want to. It is still not easy to obtain favourable loans because often the guarantee is insufficient and additional burden on the population is not too popular because it detimises and settles, as well as investment. I believe that there will soon be property taxes that should be participated, which should be participated by local self-government. I'm sure the number of units of regional self-government will remain the same for a long time. Let's think of all the problems, tensions in the formation of counties, e.g. Varazdin and Međimurska. And the current system certainly won't pay attention, cause Europe's attention because Europe must tolerate diversity and specificities. The existing division shall not prevent units of local administrations and regional self-government from connecting with each other and with relevant areas in Europe. And it seems to me that's exactly our main problem. I don't support the proposal for conclusions because I think it's unnecessary. And from a series of statistical reports from individual ministries, we can read the necessary data. A collection of such differences as the case in our local self-government will be difficult to give a unique picture of the state in local self-government or some sort of average. And in particular, we'll find out something new. We also expect the Government's proposal for a Law on Local Self-Government Reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29983	Thank you. Does the Proposer want a representative? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29984	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that this debate is more important than all our debates on committees, on the shifts of ministers, etc. which takes place days in this Assembly with cameras with full public attention takes place before a dozen representatives in the Croatian Parliament at the time of lunch and without the presence of the cameras. But I hope that media colleagues will recognize the importance of this topic, and it is more important, I repeat, than all of our discussions, of all our affairs because it is actually talking about the future of democracy in this country. The state is strong when it's at some level of development when it has a strong local self-government. A strong central state does not mean a strong society as a whole but rather a very good impact, balance, central government powers and local self-government units. So this is actually the question of the future of the development of democracy or the development of the Republic of Croatia, I repeat much more important than all of our affairs, which we pay so much attention to and without any need to wear out. Of course, I thank all the colleagues who took part in this debate and all those who follow this debate. I would just like to repeat some views, or clarifications, as to what the secretary of state said. First of all, it is very clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia said in its opinion that even before 90 days ago, it would propose laws concerning the reform of local self-government. It's been 90 days since our proposal was written in July and the government's opinion in September. The idea was for the government's proposals to appear in September, and then to adopt something before the local elections. Many of these changes, like the mayor's choice, such as the local self-government unit organisation, jurisdiction, way of administrative functioning of the unit of local self-government actually mattered before the local elections, there's no point in bringing some of these things after local elections, if it wasn't done in the September month as we suggested, so until this year's Parliament session, to its end, then it doesn't really make much sense anymore. And all that the government can propose today under these circumstances, it will come to a debate already there in the first and second months, so it will enter into some pre-election political focus. Therefore, more serious efforts to reform local self-government unfortunately cannot be spoken. Otherwise, the debate on local self-government, the whole debate, the local self-government development strategy, has unfortunately never been implemented in this House. There have been a lot of debates, but always when the law is passed, we are increasingly making the laws more and more in a crowded political situation, expecting local elections, in fact we never have the willingness to consider the issue of local self-government of its position, perspective, development and strategy in the whole way and in peace past the current political conflicts. So I can't really understand that you know all about it. This is one of the most intense discussions in contemporary European politics and Croatia must be part of this debate, and of course not go after some kind of flat-rate and individual solutions. I, of course, welcome the government's meeting in Rijeka. I also welcome the Ministerial Conference on Local Self-Government in Zagreb, but this is not it. That's a good trend, that means he takes care of it. But the point of what we're talking about here is an attempt to propose real reform procedures, which will increase the strength of local self-government units. As regards what the Secretary of State has said, and as regards ratification of the relevant provisions of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, Congress of Regional and Local Authorities, the Council of Europe calls on the Republic of Croatia in its report to extend the application or scope of the Charter of Local Self-Government to those, to all items as quickly as possible, that is, the Council of Europe's formulation, namely its Congress and local and regional authorities. And we don't always have to get beat up with a political hammer to do it to us. This is no longer a question that depends on Croatia's accession to the European Union. This is not a question that we now need to do for European reasons, because this can put our political international position at risk. It's an idea that we have to solve for ourselves. And there is also no provision of a government position that the Republic of Croatia feels there is no reason to restart the procedure for ratification of the additional provisions of the European Charter, since the Republic of Croatia has not ratified all the provisions of the Charter, it fully respects them. That could be the government's opinion. However, this opinion can be highly discussed. I have here a message from the Union of Cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the Government should respect for the ratification of Article 4(3), (5) and (6), Article 8(3), Article 9(5) and (7), Article 10(2). And one of the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government that must be respected is respecting the position of course not entirely, but being in some kind of fruitful communication with local self-government units, which is what units of local self-government are looking for. One of these provisions, I will only refer to him, because there is no need to enter this matter in such detail is Article 4(3), which reads, public powers will be exercised in such a way as to prefer to belong to the authorities closest to the citizens. When granting power to another authority, consideration must be taken of the breadth and nature of the task and the requirements of efficiency and economics. This is actually the principle of subsidiarity. It is difficult to defend the view that the Republic of Croatia respects this item. The state that has the share of the income of local self-government units only 14% of the total public revenues and expenditures can also not be claimed to respect this principle. Croatia is ready to lower the central government's competences to local self-government units, as at that level, they are best achieved. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: The European Charter, which the Republic of Croatia has not ratified. Therefore, it is difficult to defend the government's position that the Republic of Croatia has ratified, that it respects all the provisions of the local self-government units. So if the government thinks so, then because of the principle that it respects what is of course possible, what units of local self-government think, which is the view of alliances and cities only because of that, the government should approach ratification. But the ratification itself is not particularly important or important, it is no longer the big and big political issue of chaos that was in the past years. But we must do this for the sake of local self-government, not for Europe, for the Council of Europe, for the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities, but for the development of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. And ultimately, an unnecessary note from the secretary of state about what the former government was doing. I didn't go to what the former government did, nor did she rule before that. It's out of my way of discourse today, and I think we can talk about it justifiably looking into the future, not looking into the past. There's a lot to talk about in the last four years, then the last 12 years. Of course, the shifts themselves were made when such a system of local self-government was formed. And in the last term of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, there have also been shifts in terms of increasing the competence of units of local self-government, but I argue regardless of who has participated in these past 12 years, that the shifts we have made are not sufficient, that it is time to make new shifts. And I therefore call on all my fellow MPs, I call on the Croatian public to see the importance of this issue. Because I repeat a state that has developed and strong local self-government is not a weaker state, but a stronger state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29985	Thank you. Representative of the Government, Honorable Anton Palaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29986	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We look forward to discussing local self-government, it is certainly a very important issue for the general development of democracy in Croatia. But I cannot agree with the estimates that the Croatian state is centralised, it is moderately decentralised. There are countries in Europe that are more centralised than Croatia and have no intention of carrying out the decentralisation process and we want to implement it, but we do not want to call it reform. We're afraid of the word reform. We're all reformers then it's often both unimaginative and with certain victims to say so. We want to develop, develop in accordance with local self-government capabilities. We want to connect but not necessarily connect how someone wants it not to undermine the political independence of each of the units of local self-government. And we believe that further development of local self-government will take place in a legal course as their financial opportunities allow and that the transfer of jobs will also go to the transfer of funds or sources of funds. So, I just called to point out that I had no intention of saying that the former government had done something wrong or did something wrong, but in the context of the Croatian government's relationship with representatives of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, that there was a interruption of communication and that they expressed a surprise which led to the interruption of communication. We have clearly very quickly established relations between the countries and the European body that takes care of local self-government. We opened the doors and the alliance of cities and municipalities and that door was wide open. We also offer joint projects and respect the position of the Union of Cities and municipalities, we read their texts, their proposals and the government will evaluate them as they feel necessary. I'm not quite sure that the Union of Cities is returning in the same way with the same attention to the government, but rather, here in writing, here I have it here, about the ministerial conference they managed not to write that it was the host of the Central State Office, that someone there presided, that the government had developed a national programme. But I believe that cooperation will be even better, our doors are still open and we offer projects among other things and the establishment of an academy of local democracy, so one place which together with the alliance of cities and municipalities would organise some school that would work to raise the professional level of employees in local self-government and why not say local elected representatives of members of the representative body. Here, thank you all for participating in the debate. We continue to oppose the proposed conclusions and stress that we have enough concern for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29987	Thank you. This concludes the debate. The vote will be later.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29988	Proposal for a conclusion on the situation and perspectives of the development of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a conclusion on the situation and perspectives of the development of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the Clubs of Representatives of the LIBRE, the CNS of the PGS and the representatives of the LS, is not accepted. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 74 votes for and 8 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been adopted. Please, Mr. Boras, where are you going? You're not going back anywhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29989	The previous consent of the Croatian Parliament to confirm the decommissioning program of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel was delivered by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Development and Reconstruction and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? State Secretary Vladimir Vrankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29990	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament! Allow me to present just a few technical details regarding the decommissioning program of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant to this Assembly. Each nuclear power plant shall be equipped with a programme which shall develop the sequence and scope of technological procedures with a facility, spent fuel and radioactive waste after its operation has ceased. On the basis of a detailed analysis and with an assessment of labour costs, such a programme may also assess the total costs of decommissioning and handling spent fuel and radioactive waste. The estimated total costs are the starting point for selecting how funds will be raised in specific funds. The decommissioning program usually speaks of jobs and their costs in a time that is tens of years behind a time horizon that can be predicted with certain certainty by the development of the technology to be used in the decommissioning process. Each decommissioning program was designed ten and more years before the end of the life span of the plant, during projections with many indeterminateness and limited accuracy. Therefore, the decommissioning programme is developed multiple times and every time available with knowledge and data that is getting better as the plant finally stops closer. Cost assessment is always conservative, be careful not to underestimate costs. Based on the provisions of Article 10 of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations relating to the disposal and exploitation, i.e. The investment, exploitation and decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant is determined that professional organisations from Croatia and Slovenia are together within 12 months of the completion of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant decommissioning programme and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. At the second session of the Interstate Commission in July 2003, a project task for the development of the decommissioning programme was adopted. The work of the programme was entrusted to two specialized professional organisations from Croatia and Slovenia, from Croatia APO from Slovenia ARAO from which the project team was established. The monitoring of all project team activities in the preparation of documents and the resolution of key professional issues has been entrusted to expert advice made up of prominent experts from Croatia and Slovenia. The work on the decommissioning programme was completed in March 2004. The programme is based on today's known data on the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of low and medium-active waste, spent nuclear fuel, as well as international standards and best international practice in the area. And it is primarily intended to assess future costs to create the basis for the collection of funds needed to finance the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste and the disposal of spent nuclear fuel. It is a comprehensive revision of the already existing 1996 plan and represents one of the more iterations that will be made until the completion of the final decommissioning programme of the nuclear power plant and the disposal of low and medium radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The programme itself is divided into seven separate units showing the work so far on planning in the decommissioning and handling of low and medium radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel and describing... the conditions, the technical solutions on which the programme itself is based. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just list a few of these most important edge conditions of this study. The nuclear power plant is projected to be in regular operation by 2023. The programme should be analysed for the original variation of the rapid decomposition strategy from the previous study in 96 and several variations will be developed. The financial results should be presented in the 2002 euro as well as the estimate of nominal and discounted costs and the time period of collection and spending of funds. Only a dump, low and medium radioactive waste will be one and that of underground so-called underground waste. tunnel type in operation since 2013. Then, a geodeposit of spent nuclear fuel will be one in the 2030 plant, but irrevocable exports of spent nuclear fuel will also be considered. The decommissioning programme will process the dry storage of spent nuclear fuel as part of the sensitivity analysis and the discountation will be carried out with an inflation factor of 1,0073, a interest factor of 1,0429 corresponding to the discount factor of 1,035. The actual amount of anuminity for the decommissioning fund will be derived from the total discounted costs with a pre-item of 19 equal payments in an empty fund. Based on these border conditions and the limitations of the project task in the programme, a total of 9 scenarios have been developed with different time options for the technological decommissioning process according to the basic strategy of rapid decommissioning, rapid decommissioning. In these circumstances, the recommendations of the construction programme are that during the period from the beginning of 2004 to the next cost assessment in the next revision, the decommissioning programme of the Krško nuclear power plant is the basis for the collection of funds in the decommissioning funds in Croatia and Slovenia to be the total discounted decommissioning and disposal cost of 350m euros. This corresponds to 19 equal anuminities of 28.5m euros to be paid from 2004 to 2022. Half the amount means 14.5m euros should be provided by the Croatian side. In Croatia, the electricity industry estimates that the increase in the market for their business will result in no reason for an increase in electricity in Croatia. Namely, normised to expected production of Krško nuclear power plant in the period 2004 to 20023 and the expected half and energy share in the total consumption of Croatia, the increase in the cost of Croatian electricity industry due to decommissioning and waste of the Krško nuclear power plant will be less than 1% of the average selling price and will be covered by internal reserves. The decommissioning programme was presented at the state commission at the 5th session in 2004 and was then decided to carry out an independent international review of the programme. A French company, EDF, has been selected for the resident. The Croatian side has additionally ordered a review from Dr. Boris Sutotic of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute and at the 6th session in June 2004 the interstate commission discussed the decommissioning programme along with independent reviews. Both reviews were assessed positive and made valuable recommendations for the next revision of the programme. The designers, based on the reviews, removed minor formal shortcomings, developed a final version bearing the June 2004 mark. The Interstate Commission has concluded that two delegations request in their countries the consent of the competent authorities to implement them, i.e. Confirmation, excuse me. In accordance with Article 3(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations relating to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and the joint declaration on the signing of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations relating to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant in the interstate monitoring commission, the implementation of the contract is required to take a position on the confirmation of the radioactive waste programme and spent nuclear fuel and the very decommissioning programme of the Krško nuclear power plant, with the prior consent of the Croatian Parliament. The Government of the Republic of Croatia concluded, on the basis of its competence to implement the contract, paragraph 1 of Article 4 of the same Act, at a session held on 4 August 2004, a decision approving the request for prior consent of the Croatian Parliament for the confirmation of the nuclear power plant Krško programme and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear waste. I ask the Croatian Parliament to issue a preliminary agreement to the delegation of the Republic of Croatia to the Interstate Commission for the Monitoring and Implementation of Contracts between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment and exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant for the confirmation of the Krška nuclear power plant programme and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29991	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS Club, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29992	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. When we talk about this nuclear power plant Krško we must inevitably say two, three sentences of introduction about Croatian Slovenian relations. Slovenia has recently received a new government, headed by the Government is Mr Janša and whose foreign ministry leads well known to Dimitrij Rupel. Anyone who thinks that with Jansa Croatia will be wrong to resolve open issues more easily than with Europe. That's number one. Number two. Slovenians set up the next strategy. First they seek a succession for the Istrian railways to get a subsidy in the Ljubljanska banka, not St. Geru to keep the principle k.o. They were looking for Mline, Shkudalin, Buzini. Third, they are looking for a complete Piran Bay to get Racan, Drnovšek's paraphras in Istria's aquarium. Fourth. It will not cross Croatia's entry into NATO, or the European Union, but on the other hand will not build roads across Istria and Rijeka, etc., which will definitely isolate us from the European Union. In order for this to happen, Croatia must play on good economic relations and let us not forget that the trade between Zagreb and Ljubljana is about a billion and a half dollars without tourism, i.e. we must play on these property legal relations because citizens and Slovenian companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia currently own property estimated in billions of euros. It is clear that these assets must be safe for Slovenian citizens but also Slovenian citizens cannot, must not adhere to Croatian law, can not behave beyond Croatian laws, whether Slovenian resorts are Wednesday, whether construction is, above all, wild, whether they are tourist taxes Wednesday, etc. This agreement, which I welcome, although I would be most fortunate to have Croatia for the benefit of the Slovenian state, clearly resolved its stake in Krško nuclear power plant and that this money it would have invested in other sources of electricity. Whether it's gas, whether it's wind, sun, hydropower plants, and so on, it's less important. The important thing is that Croatia will neither gas from the submarine nor hydropower plant or wind power plant. It is illusory to waste words on coal thermal power plants at all, so at this point in time when the energy is passed, we can even be happy to have half of Krško even though in 10 years we will face this agreement seriously and this is the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant. Krško's nuclear power plant was certainly a megalomaniac project by the former state of Yugoslavia. It is fortunate that it is located in Slovenia because as stupid as we are, the question is how it would work in Croatia, Serbia if we didn't even talk. I don't underestimate anyone, least of all Croatian citizens, but I'm against the location of the nuclear power plant in Croatia, so I'd rather have her in Slovenia where she is today. However, Croatia will very soon have to identify new locations for electrical installation because otherwise, the country of Croatia will depend on the imports of electricity in the predominantly part, and this is always more expensive than the production of energy in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, electricity is always paid by consumers. They're citizens, that's our economy. So before I start talking about this decommissioning programme I want to say Croatia must come to a consensus when the future locations of these power plants are based on. As far as the programme is concerned: First of all, Croatian and Slovenian experts such as Croatians and Slovenians or citizens of Croatia and Slovenia co-financed or co-financed Krško together. Second, Krško nuclear power plant will be in operation by 2023. The third, low and medium radioactive waste dump will be one in the plant since 2013. Fourth, the geological dump will also be one in the 2030 drive. Fifthly, it raises the question whether exporting that waste will be possible in 2030 because in 25 years, it is possible to change the way of thinking in Russia, Ukraine and so on. And the sixth, decommissioning on this page 8. talks will cost 350 million euros. It's a $500 million circus and that money in 19 equal wars needs to be secured in a joint fund of EUR 28.5 million per year. However, 19 wars times EUR 28.5 million do not give EUR 350 million but EUR 441 million and then the question arises as to how this difference of EUR 100 million occurred. And seven, in the 2005 Croatian Budget, no funds were provided for the decommissioning of Krško Nuclear Power Plant. First conclusion therefore: Croatia will not be able to escape from decomposition. This will unfortunately follow every future government by 2030. That is why a consensus is necessary in Croatia that with Krški, Krško, whatever this facility is in our neighbouring country. The public's mood is absolutely against atomic power plants. Of course, the public isn't against power from Krško nuclear power plant. However, it would be best if the plant could be sold to Slovenians, so let the state of Slovenia worry about decommissioning and clear installation of radioactive waste. In 2000, the so-called so-called Parogenerators who introduced Croatia into a dispute with Slovenia and which ultimately resulted in the suspension of the supply of electricity. It has trafficked into another Croatian-Slovenian dispute in which, unfortunately, Croatia has once again drawn a good old tradition to a shorter end. Good thing they're going to be so-called. The rapid decomposition is done on the local dump. It means the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Second conclusion, Slovenia is a member of the European Union. Croatia will most likely become in 2009. So our regulation must be European but clearly and coherent with Slovenia and vice versa with Croatia. I said the Krško Nuclear Power Plant will stop working in 2023, and the start of the decommissioning is 2030, which will say that this year should be almost a dump. I hope as far away from the Croatian-Slovenian border as possible. The option is to export radioactive waste, however, of such a single solution sincerely in the IDS Club we doubt. So the fundamental question is can Croatia escape part of the commitment? Clearly in money he must participate in his share but can he escape from the storage of that radioactive material? I doubt that, though. But where will this material be placed? I don't know. Although we've come up with some spatial plans and drawn into them those locations. All buildings in Krško must collapse after production has stopped. Where's that junk going? It's hundreds, I don't know, thousands of cc's of material. Point 4.1. quote: "One deep geological dump at a depth of 500 metres in Slovenia or Croatia. The dump is available in 2030." I hope it won't be in Istria even though someone once mentioned these karst mines. It's an interesting underground dump. It is a de facto city beneath the country that must again be near, for example, a city, whether in Croatia or Slovenia. Where in Croatia? The third conclusion is, you know how much it's gonna cost us. You know who the cost is. There's no telling when the plant's gonna stop working. Not only do you know where the material will be stored, in Croatia or Slovenia? But there's no dispute. Something will come to Croatia, something will be in Slovenia, I'm sure of it. Those who think differently, unfortunately, are naive. I know this radioactive waste won't be delayed in Istria, but I doubt such waste will be possible. Something to do, but the horror of it will be delayed in Slovenia, slightly less in Croatia, and perhaps only a small part will be performed. We need to put that whole building underground. Those who drive along the road from Zagreb to Ljubljana know about the kind of visor Krško is. Where are we going with that junk? In Ukraine, Russia, let's not be naive. I'm sure that won't happen. So I say it is fortunate that this plant is located in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Otherwise, only the underground dump will cost EUR 82.7 million. The disposal plant will cost 93.5m euros. The closure of the landfill of EUR 24.8 million. Total
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29993	Your Honor, Agent Cain, just a second, just a second. I'm asking you fellow MPs... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29994	Let them go. In total, it will be EUR 201 million. Fourth, no, no, fourth conclusion: The result can only be fuel and not material, buildings and the like. Where? To Russia. For how long? $1,500 for a kilo with no shipping costs, no shipping costs, and so on. It is paid in advance in 2010 and that is EUR 150 million. Four tours are even mentioned at EUR 208 million. But there's a whole series of open questions. What about the greens when it's supposed to go through Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and so on? What will then be the political situation or I don't know what kind of economic, ecological situation we have in not so far away from Russia? So let's stop worrying about Krško let's sell our rights to Slovenia because Croatia will be seriously divided on this issue as it is for everyone so far. Maybe not if we realize we don't have a place to go but then expect a revolution in the country, where everyone will go against everyone else, I mean, this ecological one where everyone will go against everyone if someone brings these citizens radioactive waste into the yard. The average value of decommissioning Krško nuclear power plant and around every power plant, $331 million. So the price of 350m euros for Krško is real as it is realistic to count on another 10% for unforeseen costs as the study says. For the end, let's get rid of the gents of that power plant before. I know she'd be drowsy to provide us with enough electricity there in one section until the 23rd year. I know that Croatia has no money for new energy sources, and unfortunately we won't because we think that we can, I don't know, without everything, but unfortunately without electricity, you can't. So let's get rid of this power plant, and let's leave our concerns about the decommissioning of the sale to Krško to Slovenia. If that doesn't happen then we don't have anywhere to agree to this program and I have to accept not only a commitment to finance the decommissioning of Krško nuclear power plant, but we have to be afraid to finally accept our part under the allegations of radioactive waste. Let's try not to sell it to the Slovenian nuclear power plant while there's time for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29995	Thank you. On behalf of Klub HNS PGS, distinguished representative Alekna Košića Čičin Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29996	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the program of decommissioning the Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of low and medium radio active waste and spent nuclear fuel. They jointly built it as we heard Croatian Apo experts, environmental protection services and the Slovenian Agency for Radio Active Waste. The programme predicts that less dangerous low and medium-sized adio-active waste should be disposed of in underground dumps of the tunnel type while spent fuel i.e. Highly radioactive waste should be stored in deep dumps or perhaps exported. Assumption is that the first type of disposal starts to operate in 2017 and closes at 2042, provided that the assumed period of work of Krško nuclear power plant is not extended compared to that established in 2023. Under the supervision of the interstate commission, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as a joint work of specialized institutes from the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia, created a framework that includes the co-judging of experts from both countries. And for some specific areas and the participation of experts of the IAEA International Atomic Energy Agency. The expert work also included the supervision of expert advice with 4 experts from each country dealing with the single problem of Krško nuclear power plant. At the request of the international commission, an international review was requested, carried out by experts from the French electricity industry, which expressed strongly on the proposed study. France's electricity industry today already has 2 dumps low and medium radio-active waste. One is already full and closed and the other is still in use. At the request of co-owners of the Krško nuclear power plant, Croatia has also performed an expert from the Ruđer Boskovic Institute. For reasons unknown to me, however, the same was not included in this material. The main purpose of this programme is to make an indicative assessment of the price of decommissioning and disposal of all types of waste from the Krško nuclear power plant. In order to be able to start with the collection of funds that must be available at the time of the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. The necessary funds will be collected from the price of kilowatt hours of sold electricity, which is precisely the one that was raised in the Krško nuclear power plant and so as to prescribe a percentage of the cost of kilowatt hours of electricity that will be allocated to the owned decommissioning fund why a minimum indicative figure should be defined, which should be available in 2023 for the most demanding but acceptable way of handling this waste. In Slovenia, the nuclear power plant decommissioning fund has already existed since 1999, and a 100m-euro circus has been collected, while such a fund has not yet been established in the Republic of Croatia. This is a purely professional technical study without prejudged the location of political solutions. The low- and medium-sized radio-active waste decommissioning programme has been carried out in a technical and technical manner, taking into account all relevant components that can contribute to the cost of costing. All parameters which can be predicted and assessed at this time with a certain probability are included in the review, and is also sufficiently flexible to be complemented in the next stages of the development. The study was transparently shown that individual entry conditions were selected, i.e. border conditions, and it is precisely the biggest problem of defining the border conditions that must be set in order to allow the cluster of possible combinations to be reduced to real frames. In order to produce even an indicative estimate of the final cost, it was necessary to consider and assess the basis of data from the Krško nuclear power plant, available data on already decomposed nuclear power plants, developed nuclear waste dumps in the world. General trends in areas and our more concrete situation every single technological step, or stage, in the treatment of deforestation and waste management. The cost of individual steps or entry into the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and waste disposal is very clear, under one. When the process of decommissioning is started after the closure of the power plant, the time invoice so-called. The scenario and for each scenario is the decomposition has its positive pluses and minuses. Two to take care of low and medium-sized radio active waste underground or underground dumps. Together for Slovenia and Croatia or two separate dumps each for a special country. Under three. Technology and the time period of disposal of high-radio active waste or spent nuclear fuel keeping at the location, therefore, or by keeping it in place until it becomes less active and then disposal, or immediately dispatching to the place of permanent storage, the type of dump or source which today seems to be the most certain solution or something like that. As part of the assessment of the cost of the disposal price, it is also considered and dependent on the financial parameters of inflation interest and discount factors which have a significant impact on the cost. Finally, both parties were made professionally in the joint work of both stakeholders, and it is highly acceptable for both parties. It represents a good basis for continuing to work on possible scenarios or decommissioning options, and thus a more accurate cost assessment. It can and should start with the collection of decommissioning funds and can be redefined over time. what is common in other countries that face the problem of decommissioning and a series of unknowns that this process brings. Here I would like to emphasise that I represent among the Inima Sisičko Moslavačka County exactly the county where, according to the strategy and according to the spatial planning programme, the possible disposal of nuclear waste is speculating, which is a commercial mountain. I must stress that the programme itself does not prejudge the decision in which the state and state will be located and where the landfill will be located. Whether in the Republic of Croatia or in the Republic of Slovenia or perhaps in a third country. However, as an optimal variant, the programme provides for the construction of a joint dump of low and medium-sized radioactive waste for both countries and a joint storage facility for spent fuel or exports if it is technically and financially possible, both from technical and financial, and also from the political sides, the most favourable solution. But, of course, other solutions are possible with the redefining of these costs. The programme is fully subject to European regulation. The Croatian People's Party club of the Primorje-Goran Alliance will give its consent to confirm this programme because Croatia is certainly necessary. I see that's where the boss changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29997	Peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29998	The HNS-PGS club will give consent to the validation of this programme is certainly necessary for Croatia to start collecting funds as soon as possible, and the way and start of decommissioning will be solved by technical solutions that will eventually prove optimal. To date, there is no complete experience on the decommissioning of radioactive waste, but on the principle of "polute or pay" we know that we are responsible for our part of the disposal of this waste, but responsibility does not prejudge the location in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u29999	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, in accordance with Article 204(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I will propose to the Rules of Procedure an addition of the agenda of this sitting to the proposal for the submission of a credible interpretation of Article 23 in conjunction with Article 1. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. Do any of the representatives have any objections to the inclusion of this item in the agenda? There isn't. I find that the addition of the agenda has been established. We're continuing the debate. HSP club, respected representative Tonci Tadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30000	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, sir of the Croatian Government. In the first place, I express the disdain of the HSP Club with a marble like this in the assembly while discussing such an extremely important topic. It is hundreds of millions of dollars that Croatia will have to pay and one would expect a little more attention. A colleague who spoke before me could hardly hear the subject, although it was really very important. But let me get to the point. This material of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme and this disposal of radioactive waste is the result of an agreement with Slovenia on the Krško nuclear power plant. The agreement was, as you know, concluded in a completely wrong way and imposed on Croatia obligations that she had never had before. First nuclear-building agreements because it's planned to build two. One in Slovenia and one in Croatia. Both with a joint investment of 50%, 50% Slovenian and Croatian, both nukes should therefore be built by joint investment, but with Slovenians caring for the decommissioning of Krško and Croatia of the decommissioning of never built nukes in Privlaca near Dugi Sela. Why is that? Because the Convention on Nuclear Safety states that a country that owns a nuclear plant itself takes care of the safety of the plant and its decommissioning. Croatia and Slovenia then, as former SFRY republics, copied an agreement between Belgium and France that was made in exactly the same way. Joint construction of two nukes with the distribution of investment costs and a common half-power exploitation from each nuke with each carrying the cost of decommissioning the nuke on its territory. Until the conclusion of this disputed agreement with Slovenia, Croatia had never had the obligation to co-finance the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant in Krško. You know as much as the HSP Club and I have personally fought against this agreement, but unfortunately it has been ratified despite our efforts and has come into effect. And now we're in a situation where we can only get out one way, and now... Thank you, Mr. President. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We are now in a situation from which we can only come out in one way, which is that Croatia is in negotiations with Slovenia, and it can indeed be a working group that is formed is indeed this programme and conceived in this way. Therefore, agreements with Slovenia ensure that there will be no imports of radioactive material in Croatia. So let's keep everything in Slovenia. Secondly, to keep it all as long as possible within the nuclear ring in Krško as each transport is more expensive. And third, that it costs as little for Croatia as possible. And I'm saying that not because I'm originally Bodul, but because it's really best for Croatia. So, if the Slovenians wanted co-financing then let it be done as cheaply as possible for Croatia so that everything stays in Slovenia and as long as possible within the circle of the nuclear power plant in Krško. What's this about? The nukes have their own working life. It's supposed to be the working age of this nuke by 2023. He's evaluated, we don't know that, but what we do know is that they're not rare nukes where, with some 30 years of work, so around 2013, there may be cracks on the reactor and early closure. What's crucial is that then you have to invest about 75% of the money you invested in its construction. Then you invest it in her closure. Now, of course the Slovenians wanted a naive neighbor who would pay them half the cost and we naturally gave them that agreement. The agreement envisioned a decommissioning programme being developed within 12 months, and it is well-designed and it is good to go this way. Any transport of radioactive material from a nuclear plant would just collect that whole business. But without it, it will cost us all about a billion and $200 million in total. And those are the facts. We can fight it, but it is a cost that Croatia did not need. Of these billions and 200 million, of course, are waste in the Republic of Croatia. So we can hope that all of this will not start until 2023, we can hope that by then we will be able to exploit the electricity from Krškoga, i.e. that we will be able to install this cost in the price of kilowatt hours and stretch it all together for another 20 years. If the nuke is finished before work, then, of course, the cost on the Croatian side will be higher and we will not be able to compensate it simply through the increased price of electricity from the nuclear power plant because in that case it will simply be uncompetitive. I repeat, we didn't need it all together, but since we're here, it's good to go this way. How could such an unfavorable agreement ever be made? I guess I know how. Because there was no Nuclear Security Council on the Croatian side. Croatia was in a situation just before Christmas 2001 that it was among the rare countries in the International... for atomic energy, so it was among the rare countries in the world that did not have its own, by the Government an independent Nuclear Security Council. Such complex documents are never signed by the government itself on behalf of the state without being controlled by one of the government's independent bodies such as the Nuclear Security Council. Unfortunately, that body was formed only a few months ago. On the Slovenian side, the matter was quite different, their environment minister, their energy minister and the Slovenian president of the Slovenian nuclear security body negotiated on the Slovenian side. We didn't have it on our side. On our part, all of this was embodied in the assistant minister of the economy, now formerly, thank God, Mr. Roman Note. And then he actually made his own decision on all these issues. If there had been a Council of Nuclear Security, there would certainly not have been. And since this council exists now it is quite clear that the implementation of such an agreement will be controlled by a single body independent of the Government. Why is the cost of closing a nuke that big? Because in this case, we don't only care about the provision of highly radioactive waste that one might buy, but where will you translate it, which lines, with which ecological risks and at what political risks for the transport of our radioactive waste from Krško through Croatia, Hungary, Ukraine to possible Russia? You know what concessions are needed to move a train like that? Second, you need to take care of where you take care of low and medium radioactive waste, i.e. all that occurs during the work of a nuclear power plant. So it's vanes, gloves, greases, oils, spare parts, so all that came with radiation, and all that, provided no one was crazy enough to go to the decommissioning of the nuke itself in terms of its decommissioning. This figure that I mentioned about billions and $200 million refers only to radioactive waste, not decommissioning, or decommissioning the nuke itself. And that is why we believe that the smartest thing for Croatia to do is to keep it all together in Slovenia, to believe after the end of the working century and after the end of these years, that the sarcophagus around the reactor building is being made here, that in that part of the warehouse, nuclear fuel is still being spent, believing that in one 20 years, which is actually the course of this decommissioning program after the work of the nuclear plant, someone in the European Union wants to take care of that fuel somewhere permanently. But there are too many questions if and when. What is certain is that no one in any country in the world went to build a dump site of high-radioactive waste for just one nuclear power plant. And it's absolutely certain that it went to the construction of two nukes precisely to plan from the joint funds where later with this highly radioactive waste, or radioactive waste in general. No one, no country is so crazy, there's not that much money available to spend in such a way that only one nuclear power plant works for its dump. And that is why we believe that the variant in which everything remains in Slovenia is within the sarcophagus of concrete around the reactor building is, in fact, the most favourable and cheapest for Croatia. As we have already brought ourselves into this situation, I repeat, past the Croatian party's rights, past all the people who have warned, then it is good to resolve this situation in a way that is most favourable to Croatia itself so that waste does not move from there that it does not in any way import into Croatia, and what remains in Slovenia not to move from the nuclear circle again and that it all comes together for us in the end as little as possible, so it may go to a figure smaller than that I mentioned. Because all the figures listed here are actually hypothetical because we still don't know what it's going to cost us to handle spent nuclear fuel. So, for all these reasons, the HSP Club will regrettably have to vote for this decommissioning program, I repeat with regret because we were against this agreement at all, but now we are where we are and we hold that this is the cheapest variant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30001	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30002	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. It's more like a supplement, is it, in those Serbian days of 2002, not only was the HSP Club against that agreement but it must really be said that some other clubs as well as the then LS Club also proved with more or less the same argument and showed that this Nuclear Krško agreement is completely unnecessary and that all of these collateral damages will actually cause and that we are actually witnesses of what damage we are facing. This is more because of the Croatian public that we would really be clear that July 2002 is one of the very important dates in the political life of the then called Parliament, which caused both the whole series and the political crises, that there were parties that opposed this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30003	This exhibit of yours can't even be placed under the notion of correcting an incorrect quote. And probably because you had your hand in your pocket, which isn't usually right here, which is why you forgot what it was about, Mr. Kramaric. In fact, you should have a warning, too, but it wouldn't have worked out, so I won't tell you, because it would have been unsuccessful to give you a warning. But why do you abuse the Rules of Procedure? ... Is it? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Honorable representative of Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30004	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. On behalf of the HSS Club, I would like to begin by not agreeing to some clubs that have been used in this debate by those positions that the HSS Club will not represent. First of all, the HSS Club represents the view that the Republic of Croatia is the unquestionable owner of half of the Krško nuclear power plant and that the strategic interest is to keep exactly that status until the end for three key national reasons. The first is control of the facility and decisions. The second is the contribution to the energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and the third is the contribution to the commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. The very programme of decommissioning the Krško nuclear power plant and the delay was made according to the conclusion of the interstate commission to monitor the implementation of the contract between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on 10 June 2003. the programme in question has been developed in accordance with the highest professional criteria, and according to the available information and knowledge on the issue in question at global level. The main task of the programme was to develop possible decommissioning scenarios for Krško nuclear power plant, and care, to choose the recommended scenario, and to determine the costs of those for the purpose of calculating the annuity payments to the Fund. A total of 19 payments from 2004 to 2022 are predictable. The main assumption was the power plant Krško, by 2023. The selected and recommended scenarios for the construction of the Krško nuclear power plant and the care for which total annuity payments to the Fund are 28.5m euros, i.e. 14.25m euros for the Croatian side. These amounts can also provide current electricity prices that Krško nuclear power plant places in the system, i.e. towards consumers. Due to its flexibility, the delay scenario can be easily changed to the export scenario, and the export decision can be extended until 2045. By that time, we should have our own location for spent nuclear fuel. The postponement of the decision to export spent nuclear fuel is based on high prices and options, i.e. from a thousand to two thousand dollars per kilogram of uranium. For the time being, the only possible exports to the Russian Federation for which there are still unresolved obstacles, and not only of formal nature. In this sense, there is a proportionate responsibility on the Croatian side and for technological solutions, and for the financing of the Krško nuclear power plant's propulsion and maintenance until the end of the working century, and for the decommissioning of Krško nuclear power plant and the disposal of nuclear waste after the final suspension of work, which is projected for 2023. The interest of the Croatian side is that given the proximity of Krško's nuclear power plant to Croatia's borders, such a solution will be found that will permanently make the location of the power plant suitable for unlimited use after stopping the plant. And this is foreseen in the proposed scenario to be achieved 45 years after the final stop of the plant, which is achieved according to the rapid decommissioning methodology. The biggest problem is the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, and the decision on a geological landfill for this purpose should be made by 2020. In any case, spent nuclear fuel will be equipped at the power plant's location for at least 30 to 40 years after the power plant has been shut down. In this period, there is enough time for the development of a geological dump and parallel with it still seeking export opportunities, whether in the Russian Federation or elsewhere, which opportunities could be achieved by then more favourable than from today's perspective. However, export opportunities cannot be the only and exclusive strategy. There are some key open questions that are objectively not answered at the moment. However, that is why it is necessary to find the means of decision-making agreed with the Slovenian Party, hence the official and time-drawn to appoint the competent authorities for the implementation of the agreed arrangements in question and the like. It is also necessary to access the new revision of the programme, as foreseen in the programme itself. And with re-evaluated border conditions above all weather conditions, which again requires prior alignment of both sides. A key open question, if the strategy is not so important at this time whether it is a delay or an export strategy taken as a new starting strategy unlike the one from the original strategy is where it will first be in which country, and then where at the surface dump? In Slovenia or Croatia? They are of principle nature and do not help in any form further decisions. For example, if the dump was in Slovenia, but close to the Croatian border, for example, on the edge of Gorski Kotar, the potential impact on the Croatian territory was significant, and then insight and ingenuity should be sought as if it were a place of disposal in Croatia and also require evidence of cross-state influence towards the SO Convention. It is also necessary to bring the time limits into line in the decision-making process, and to define the decision-making procedure for all open issues. It is advised to extend the activity to examine export opportunities, start from resolving open issues for the export option to Russia, for example, whether exports from the United States require consent as well as other open issues. At least information can be accessed for now and in contact with countries in the region that have a small nuclear programme, for the possible association and construction of a joint landfill. It is also very likely that during the period when all problems of decommissioning Krško nuclear power plant and waste disposal will finally be decided, as the message of Croatia is located in the European Union, and that fact should also be taken into account. And consider solving similar problems in the territory of the European Union, and even more on the trends that follow, as nuclear programmes are still very closed and national. In all of this, in initiatives, proposals, information, insights, official, political and professional contacts, the Croatian side must not lag behind, nor be inferior to Slovenia. A already active participant in an equal partnership relationship, as well as the Krško nuclear power plant, should be regarded as a common good in energy and economic terms, which should also be properly decontaminated during the post-operative period. This is how the HSS Club supports this previous consensus in the desire for this programme to indeed take place in favour of the energy position and stability of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30005	Thank you very much. We're going to an individual debate. Dear representative Mirjana Brnardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Krško nuclear power plant built joint investments in Croatia and Slovenia in 1979, with 50% of its owners. After this nuke, we have heard it here, but it is not burning to repeat, according to the same principle it was planned to build another one at Zagreb. However, Slovenia gave up on this, and on the basis of the contract to build the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the investment power plant for its maintenance and the electricity produced was to be divided in half and divided up to one period. This was the case until 98th, when the Slovenian government unilaterally adopted the entire nuclear power plant. The Croatian side was excluded from the administration, the Croatian part of the electricity was sold on the foreign market and the money Slovenia has attached to itself. After four years, the Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia Mr. Racan and Mr. Drnovšek reached an agreement on which the Croatian side was to return to the head office of the nuclear power plant, and its half of the power was to be delivered again to Croatia. Croatia has forgiven the debt for a four-year period of electricity supply, and has agreed to additional obligations related to nuclear waste disposal, which was not in that first nuclear power plant contract. After the Croatian Parliament ratified the contract, Slovenia refused to do so for another year. Only in the middle of last year did electricity flow towards Croatia, which is now seeking to collect at least one-year debt for that one-year period. But it's also being challenged from Ljubljana. The agreement signed on 19 December 2001 by the government of Mr. Racan headed by Resor Minister Goranko Fizulic has been repeatedly harmful to Croatia. First, the agreement envisions the forgiveness of Slovenia of all debts due to the failure to deliver electricity. Secondly, Croatia agrees to cover Slovenia half of all management costs to Krško Nuclear Power Plant from 1 July 1998 to 1 July 2002 without knowing either the reason or the purpose, nor the amount of these costs from the maintenance of the facility to the arrangement of the environment, the ecological rent paid only to Slovenian but not Croatian cities. Thirdly, what is most important right now is that we are also discussing this because Croatia first agrees to co-finance the closure and decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and agrees to take care of half of the radioactive waste. And now we come to this topic which is now under discussion in the Parliament, which is the decommissioning program of Krško Nuclear Power Plant, so I would do the Croatian public in order not to make it unclear, but we have heard the detailed and explanation there, but once again. As soon as the nuclear power plant is mentioned, let alone the decommissioning and disposal of nuclear waste, many sense fear and suspicion, and I will say that by confirming this programme in the Republic of Croatia, no action will be taken to install radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. By building a nuclear power plant, the owner is obliged to decommission the facility at the end of work and to collect all necessary funds for this in a specific and dedicated fund during regular work. The funds collected in that fund must be sufficient for all tasks of safe and permanent disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste resulting from regular work and decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. For each nuclear power plant, a programme is developed that provides for the sequence and scope of technological procedures with the facility, spent fuel and radioactive waste following the termination of regular work. The programme deals only with the time distribution of costs, i.e. by setting up certain activities such as the construction of landfills low and medium radioactive waste or the disposal of highly radioactive waste, and the accommodation of these activities at a time but not in space. The programme discusses the cost of building a dump of low and medium radioactive waste, one dump of spent nuclear fuel and one warehouse of spent nuclear fuel, no matter where these warehouses and dumps are actually located in Croatia or Slovenia or in a third country. Only later, in accordance with the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the arrangement of status and other legal relations related to the investment, exploitation and decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, the sites for individual facilities foreseen by the decommissioning scenario will be agreed. The programme assesses the total costs of the beach for selecting the time when the selection of the way in which the funds in the decommissioning funds will be collected in a number of meals. As a result, the decommissioning programme is designed ten and more years before the end of the life span of the plant and is only a projection with a limited cost accuracy, as it must be careful not to underestimate costs. Therefore, decommissioning funds should be collected as soon as possible, so as soon as we activate the fund, we create realistic assumptions for the effective implementation of the programme. The Slovenian fund now holds around 100m euros. Since the Krško Nuclear Power Plant will work until 2023, the funds in the Croatian and Slovenian funds should be collected by 31 December 2022 in the amount yet to be assessed by the future programme. And most importantly, resources should be sufficient for total costs, decommissioning and handling radioactive waste and spent fuel. Croatia's electricity industry, which already has a fund-raising plan for the fund, has calculated that electricity collection in Croatia will not take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30007	Thank you. Dear Representative Jaksa Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30008	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues! There's one people I can't say in this place but about us, we like to politicize and talk about something that seems to me to be predetermined. Namely, Krško Nuclear Power Plant is about 20 kilometers from Zagreb, 23 specifically, producing approximately 3.5 billion kilowatt hours a year from which our half or somewhere at 12 to 15% of Croatia's total consumption. We're importing about ten percent depending on the year it is. So now that we have power from the Krško nuclear power plant, I have to say this. Each of us and any Croatian citizen who comes home and presses the switch and there is no power we will not tell which words are in his language, you assume, because he is not thinking at all about these problems that are actually and are not bothering him because he is not thinking about them that this current would be in his chandelier, in a light bulb, in a closet or a refrigerator, and these are big problems and they will get bigger because today we are talking about the problem of nuclear waste, but there will also come a time when we will talk and we will have to talk about some locations of any energy source and believe that the public will be against it again. It'll be against the public if we want to build a thermal power plant, it'll be against the public if we want to build a hydropower plant, it'll be against the public if we want to build power plants on the wind. The public will always be against us, and as a politician, the task is not to pour oil on the public's fire, but to try to reason with the public and make reasonable arguments that we must have energy because it is only the master in the country who has the energy. One who depends on imports is certainly no longer a master or close to it. The evidence is that many countries and the best evidence is California, where the system fell apart a few years ago. If you remember that happened in this second part of America, so on the East Coast of America it happened that 50 million people I think more than 12 hours was without electricity. I don't want to talk about it, it's an American problem, and I don't care much. What's going to happen to us if we don't talk about this with the price of fuel on the world market, not building any energy sources, we're going to get into a gable very soon, and we're going to have a reduction problem, and then we're going to believe it's our fault, or at least I'm going to try to say it's our fault. Because of this, something that seems perfectly logical to me, which is this programme which clearly must have its technical solutions and its economic part. He doesn't think there's too much discussion and there's not too much space. Therefore, the cost of decommissioning and storage of both of these types of nuclear waste had to be calculated from day one in price because it was the only healthy economic calculation. And I don't see any reason why we're bidding here right now how much it's gonna cost. It'll cost as much as the project to take care of this problem says. And in this program, I've seen nothing special, in terms of technological solutions to some, or in terms of solutions to location, storage of nuclear waste. In principle, here it is said that we must begin to allocate funds for this solution that will come on charge to me in 2017 or 23. That's the way we have to look at it. So, this fund that the Slovenians already have, we need to establish, try to get this money out of what I think they owe us and put in that fund. And what will be the solution, that will be the solution? The kind of Europe she wants. Because we are a drop in the sea with a power plant on the premises of this Southeast Europe, not to tell the Balkans about what Europe has. And how small do you take the globe and see how Europe wants to solve this problem, so it will solve it. We'll have the least impact on that, we'll have to pay your price to join it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30009	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Previous consent of the Croatian Parliament to confirm the breakdown program of Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. The debate is closed. I am voting on the decision to give prior consent to the validation of the Krško nuclear power plant decommissioning programme and the disposal of radioactive waste spent nuclear fuel. Please engage. We can vote. Score. I find that with 81 votes for and 2 abstentions, the proposed decision has been adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30012	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. You are presented with a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Political Parties established by our Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. The basic desire and purpose of this Law is to actually fill in a legal void that exists in it in Article 19. It is determined in Article 19 that the funds for the work of political parties amounting to 0,056% of the budget are allocated to political parties. Therefore, exclusively political parties and indeed the law does not mention independent representatives, neither do national minority representatives, and that is simply true. However, our reality and also our fact is that in this House there are also political entities and participants and independent representatives and representatives of national minorities. And that is why, on constitutional principles, we all have equal rights as we have equal obligations, the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution in the Decision on the Allocation of these funds, applying the Constitution and interpreting this Law in the spirit of the entire legal system and our Constitution, has allocated funds to the work of political parties and in such a way that it has allocated these funds to independent representatives and representatives of national minorities and independent representatives who have been elected on the lists. And therefore, in the absence of any doubt, we suggest that these articles are added in the Law of 19, paragraphs 6 and 7 to fill this legal void, although I believe that the decisions we have made are valid because, in fact, we as a parent committee, as a parent working body for the implementation of this Law, I believe that we have the right to make the decision we have made under the Constitution. What I want to point out is, what I want to underline here is that it's not about any means that are personal to MPs, it's about means that are actually for political work. If all MPs who are members of certain parties receive the same amount for each representative, we also consider that independent representatives and representatives of national minorities also have the right to participate in these funds of the budget because they also have the right to political work and ultimately their voters also pay taxes that fill this budget. And we therefore propose the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30013	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Nenada Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30014	Dear counterpart Bosnjakovic says this is about filling the legal void. It's not about anything, it's completely incorrect, it's about filling the legal gap because it intervenes in the Law on Political Parties and not in any Law on Political Subjects because there's no such law at all. This is the Law in which it intervenes, regarding the work and financing of political parties. Just that and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30015	Thank you. Does the Legislative Committee want one? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS club, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30016	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, this law is like an intervention of firefighters after the house has already burned down and only smokes the fire. Its aim is not to improve the situation but to legislate clearly the illegal procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And buying loyalty, let's call independent agents. The law is not corrected, it is manipulated by word and spirit. By the spirit of what it is called, as counterpart Stazic said, it is therefore the financing of political parties and the letter because what was done at the beginning of the 11th month in the Law is not mentioned anywhere as a possibility. Calling on Western countries where direct representatives are financed is quite all right, it is probably the goal of developing the parliamentary system, however, there are also political parties being financed in some other way. So the whole system is elaborated differently, and there's actually no comparison. This political violence, as this is the case, comes out of panic, and out of fear that the majority of parliament could come at some awkward moment. In fact, the MPs in this House became so that they were on party lists as party members or not party members, which makes no difference, people were on party lists. Someone then joined the party, someone could have left the party and still stayed on that list because he came to the Parliament on that list. Then there are minority representatives who are truly independent, who are chosen in an independent way as individuals and of course can and should be treated according to this Act of course that they can and should be treated according to this law practically as political parties. Because that's the kind of work they do and that kind of work they've done in the election. The new category is commercially independent representatives. It is simply necessary to establish that man does not find a common language with a party whose list is in Parliament and when he does not find a common language he steps out of the party. The prize for this is a million kuna for, of course, political work. Well, not in your pocket, not that a man buys new shoes, but for political work. But it's more like a fee for former and future loyalty to us at the HNS and PGS. Otherwise, if that's not the case, why wouldn't the principle be applied in general to all MPs? So that means Is he okay? [[- Insect: Bravo!]] That funds for political work come to the expense of representatives who agree with their parties and who find common language will leave it to the foreigners. The ones that don't, no. The Croatian People's Party has requested an authentic interpretation of Article 19. Political party law, 12.11. this year. The 15-day deadline in which this was to be found on the Legislative Committee has been missed. With this bill of addition, the whole thing is actually losing weight and it doesn't make much sense. If the law changes like this, there's nothing further to ask for his interpretation. In the meantime, however, the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, and the political system, where it is said briefly, is that everything is in the best order and that the Committee has acted according to the law and the spirit of the Constitution and so on. At the same time, on the same day of 2.12 this year, this same Committee makes this proposal. Now three questions are asked: if the law was clear, why change it? Under the clear law, change is pointless. If he wasn't clear, and clearly he wasn't clear on how it could have been done? Or why paying off this fee didn't wait or interpreting the law or what we're going to do today, voting for the law. After that, the procedure would be perfectly legitimate. That's not how he is. Procedures are clumsy, mildly said. They were withdrawn at one point when a clear sense of security of the ruling coalition was to be created. I don't know if they got the results, but that seems to be the main reason. But if you know that story of Andersen, that emperor is naked. You can wrap it in the fog, but the Emperor is naked, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30017	And we're the Republic. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30018	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vujanic incorrectly found it to be a panic and fear, a manipulation of the law. It is a necessary need to clarify things that have begun to be practiced far earlier than they have been paid, paid off for the work of independent MPs, those he thought of since they were also paid off from the very beginning. Independent representatives from the SDP list, the truth is true not on their personal account but on the account of the SDP but it is equally not based on the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30019	Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic, Club of Representatives of the SDP Please, ladies and gentlemen, we have already said that this form of communication is not usual. [[That's not what the law says. /]] [[What are you talking about?]] [[What are you talking about?]] [[Mr. President, give yourself a warning first because you hurt me. I'm not SDP. I'm HSP. So according to article 214, give yourself a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30020	According to Article 214. You'll have to give your Rules of Procedure a heads-up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30021	Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30022	Because I'm not SDP. I'm HSP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30023	And what do I have to do with it, and you're from?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30024	And that's what you said, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30025	You said SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30026	SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30027	For you to be SDP?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30029	And that, is that something special to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30030	Well, it bothers me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30031	And what?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30032	It's a mess. That's why you... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30033	Okay, correction, yeah. Okay. Lapsus menti.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30034	The HSP Club had a club meeting this morning and I can tell you it was a bile debate. When we looked at the content of the amendments to this law, there was a bile debate that should be called. Some have suggested that it should be called "The Law on Parliamentary Millionaires", and others have said no, but should be called "How to make a Million without having to know anything or go to Tarik Filipovic". And the other one prevailed. That's past, and I'm asking the board, I think you should accept a proposal like this. What we've achieved now. A short time ago, a colleague of Kramaric had appeared and compared to representatives of, say, national minorities who are new millionaires he is indeed in a subordinate position. Why? He doesn't have a club, he doesn't have a million. And they have a club and a million. So they're, he's in a totally subordinate position, and he always wants to go out for a pay phone and tell his club's position, and there's no club. Poor thing. But most seriously, we must conclude that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure has also made one decision which can essentially be interpreted as illegal because if it weren't for that, you wouldn't have even given these amendments and additions to the law in the procedure because you yourself say that a question is being raised about Article 19, because in Article 19, the explicit text of the political parties writes to you. I can accept as a lawyer that this whole issue is not settled. And I can accept as a lawyer that the issue needs to be settled. But I can't accept as a lawyer that the decision you made is legal. I can't accept that. Because in this part, you yourself admitted to making a mistake. So the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, watch out for the Committee on the Constitution for a mistake in making illegal decisions. He's making illegal decisions, and that's not good. That's not good. You should have reacted this way before. I agree with these versions that there are representatives who are independent. Okay, my parents have the same rules of the game, but they should have dealt with it by law first, not the money first, then the law. That's the part I don't agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30035	Thank you very much. Proposer, Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30036	My colleagues and colleagues, there's no panic, there's no fear, there's no commercial. Let us simply read, let us read paragraph 3 of Article 19, which says: "The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament shall decide on the allocation of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this article for each year, which shall determine the same amount of funds for each representative in the Assembly." So that the individual political party has the means in proportion to the number of its representatives. Her representatives. Just a little bit. When we share that mass of funds with us, 152, then we'll get to the point where we can't spend all that money because we're not all 152 in the parties. We're not in the parties, so we're left with a certain portion of the funds, and we as the parent board have the right to deploy funds to others. For the sole reason it's based on the constitution. And if we interpret this item 3 grammatically, then the parties that have independent representatives would have no right to them because they are not their representatives they are independent. Only on their lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30037	Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30038	Thank you, Mr. President, first of all, for this second incorrect quote. There are non-party candidates on the party lists. These candidates are not independent, they are non-partisan, they are independent of those who entered the elections with their own name and last name such as national minority advocates. And what is quoted in paragraph 3 of Article 19 where the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure allocates funds per individual MPs, yes, one agent is a measure of funds. But one agent is not the recipient of the funds otherwise each of us gets the funds. An agent doesn't measure if someone's 10 gets that much, if they're 50, they get that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30039	A colleague of the Committee on the Constitution quoted a legal decree. And you are now interpreting his interpretation of the legal provision. Let's not. Report to the debates and present your views. But to interpret interpretations of legal provisions, these are not correcting false allegations. Dear Representative Bozidar Pankretic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30040	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the correction of an incorrect quote refers to the part where he said that there is part of an independent representative but in the sense that they are selected. So if there's a party cadeting a man, then it's the right party. And it's an unobstructed right of a party that I believe, that you agree and that you would not change the law. Therefore, it can definitely not be interpreted and it is an incorrect and incorrect assumption that it is the right of someone representative if he is running on the party list. The party's right, and that's definitely the way it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30041	And the esteemed representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30042	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, of course, read the article well. But he misqualified the basis for sharing parties. The article says that political parties are the ones receiving and seeking funds. And the criteria are MPs. So the basics are parties and there's no other. All MPs are criteria, but they don't get funding. E, all MPs are criteria, but they don't get funding.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30043	Lawmakers were supposed to be a little clearer in that provision. Oh, yeah. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30044	Dear President, the Honorable President of the Committee, I will speak this very briefly and without gloves, I will say the opinion of the Croatian Party of Retired People and myself. The proposed changes to the Croatian pensioner's party are from a detour of democracy through the development of a multi-party parliamentary democracy, the main bearers of the political party. That's an introduction right now. The Croatian party of pensioners is a new parlaemtran party that has survived the period since 1996 since its founding to date exclusively on membership fees, donations and modest and irregular revenues from municipal, city and county council members. In my last election, I myself was a non-partisan candidate on the list of the Croatian party of pensioners whose member I became free will a month after the election which is not an obstacle that I am loyal to the party and the political programme of the party today. Regardless of my personal contribution to the election results, I have no idea that I am thinking that you could have the status of an independent representative, and that opinion is shared by my colleagues. We have to remember how anyone came about this tall home. A representative of the Croatian pensioners' party weighs 32,000 votes on average. The HDZ representative will weigh 13 and a half thousand votes. A representative of the SDP, 14,000 votes. But because of our electoral system, things are like this. A minority representative can become and with 500 votes. I'm not talking about legality. I'm talking about letharity. That's a big difference. But we need to talk about it, we need to talk about it openly, and honestly. And it's all by law all according to the electoral law. But that's the specific weight of each individual agent. I repeat, these changes represent a detour from the way democracy develops through the development of a multi-party parliamentary democracy whose main actors and entities are political parties. If we want to change the electoral system and apply a discreet or mixed system then we can talk about such models, we can talk but this way until we have an existing law categorically no. We believe this is a kind of political diversion of parlementarism, both the political system and the political parties. And without speculation about possible motives, for the proposed amendments and additions of the political party law, we declare that the Croatian Party of Retired People will not support this amendment and supplemental proposal or vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30045	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30046	Thank you very much. The incorrect assumption is that minority deputies always become MPs with fewer votes. Mr. Hrelja should know that Mr. Da Ospoda from the Serbian Democratic Party has become MPs with much more votes. For example. Mr. Pupovci with 25 grand. Well, that would look like two members of the SDP. But that's not the criteria of the rule of law. Then you're the same representative as the others, I guess. And if you don't tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30047	The SDP Club is a respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30048	Thank you very much, Mr. President, right away at the beginning, I would like to most vigorously dement what MP Puljic said in a tabling correction of an incorrect quote, which is that the impartial representatives of the SDP list received any funds. That claim can't be called false, the only right word for your claim is a lie. And now the debate on behalf of the club. The amendment of the law on political parties as proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system for the SDP club is totally unacceptable. The proposal foresees that funds that could be paid only to political parties in the future could also be paid directly to individual MPs under the applicable law. Well, you see, that's inadmissible for us. One is a political party, and another is quite a representative. The work of political parties is regulated by one law, and the rights and obligations of parliamentary representatives are entirely different, and the pears and apples cannot be mixed. The funds intended to finance political parties belong to political parties, not to individual representatives of any party. A representative selected on the list of a party here is only an accounting unit for the calculation of funds belonging to a party whose list is selected. The multi-party democratic system belongs to one of the highest constitutional values in the Republic of Croatia, and the political parties' activities, but their operations are also governed by the Law on Political Parties. The aim is to make this funding as transparent and accessible to the public as possible. The parties also have a number of obligations that an independent representative does not have. The parties shall be legal persons and act as non-profit associations, and their programme of action shall be in accordance with the Constitution. Political parties are required to publicly show the origin and purpose of the funds they have received during one calendar year. The parties are obliged to keep business books and to draw up financial reports according to the rules governing the management of accounts of non-profit legal persons. The parties shall regularly maintain, within the time limit provided for by law, the meeting of their highest administrative body, and if they do not, then the competent authority of the State will determine that they have ceased to exist. The rights of MPs are, in turn, determined by the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Parliamentarians. This is where all the rights are taxed. The representative shall have the right to pay, the representative's fee, the salary after the term of office has ceased, free transport throughout the country, and the representatives shall also have the right to work space in the Assembly building according to the possibilities and order of representation duties. National minority representatives selected in special constituencies shall be provided with mandatory work space in the Assembly building. It is, therefore, incorrect, that any representative must pay the costs of transport or work space himself, but if someone considers that no party's representatives do not have enough means to tour their voters, let him propose to amend the Law on Rights and the responsibilities of MPs. So let the Law increase the parliamentary flatulence for them, but then it will certainly not amount to 70 thousand kuna three months from the application of this anti-legislative and anti-constitutional decisions of the Constitutional Committee. Who are the representatives who have benefited from this decision by the Constitution Committee, which should now be legalized by this legal novel? These are representatives of national minorities who are not elected from a list of political parties and independent representatives. When it comes to representatives of national minorities who are not elected from a list of political parties but have been run by minority associations, then the SDP Club warns that their associations are already getting money from the state budget for their work and for the political aspect of that work. It may be true that the money is insufficient, but it cannot be compensated through this Law because it does not regulate either the work or the funding of minority associations or the representatives themselves but exclusively the financing of political parties. Let, therefore, the government's money be asked for the increased work of its associations. When it comes to independent MPs, then let's tell them apart. The real independent representative can only be the one who has run as an independent and who has been elected as an independent representative to the Croatian Parliament. As we know, such candidates in the previous parliamentary elections were a whole crowd, but none of them even got close to the electoral threshold, let alone that he was elected as an independent candidate in this House of Commons. There is no point in discussing them, therefore, because they simply do not exist. Another kind of independent agent has its own legal, but also moral dimension. It is about those MPs who were elected to the Croatian Parliament from the party list, and then later left the party and declared themselves independent. This is about a classic voter scam. What's this scam about? Simply, the voter thought he was voting for a party's programme, wanted its representative in the parliament, and eventually it turned out that by his vote he chose someone who left the party and acted against its interests, and thus against the interests of the voters who chose him in the Parliament. Such MPs cannot, indeed, be deprived of their mandate because the mandate is optional, but the SDP Club cannot be taken away from the impression that precisely because of this amoral type of MPs and proposes a change of the law. They, in effect, want to buy money from the state budget, means taxpayers' money. The HDZ, whose members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system voted in favour of such a proposal for legislation, has become increasingly troubled with the parliamentary majority. The problem for HDZ does not come from where everyone expects it, from the Croatian party of pensioners. HSU signed an agreement with Prime Minister Sanader to support the government, provided the average pension reaches 50% of the average salary by the end of this year. Yesterday, however, representatives of the Retired Party themselves said they would suspend government support if their condition is not met by the end of next year. They have extended their request for a year. That makes sense. At the end of next year, it will be 2 years and a day of office and the pension issue will be resolved. At least for three HSU agents. The rest of the pensioners are left only to keep an eye on anyone from representing in the future. So, as far as the HSU is concerned, the parliamentary majority has not been compromised for at least a year, but the threat may be so-called. Independent MPs, and it would be good to step up a little support for minority representatives who are not elected on the list of political parties. That is exactly what the proposed amendment of the Law is about. It wants to ensure the purchase of these MPs, so if HDZ decides to do so, then all the affairs he has already entered will be in another one. Make sure the public knows how to recognize this open, unsightly corruption. If you already want to buy someone and if there is an open market representative then pay them with your party money. I guess there's something left in the Philah account. Finally, the SDP requires that the anti-constitutional, illegal and embarrassing decision of the Constitutional Committee be annulled and that those MPs who put 10 thousand kunas in their pocket from this illegal base return that money to the state budget. They shamed themselves, shamed the duty they were acting, disgraced this Assembly, which means that they also disgraced all MPs who conduct their representative duties with honor and integrity, and who in public suffer the mockery of the conduct of a few wicked representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30049	Mr. Stazić, I give you this moment's notice for insulting numerous representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30050	A few.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30051	Go ahead, go ahead. Please, peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30052	I don't know what their voters are gonna tell them, but I don't care, that's their problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30053	Thank you very much. I give you a reminder by taking away your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30054	The problem with this Parliament is...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30056	No, I'll finish my speech...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30057	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivo Loncar. ... Go on, Mr. Lonchar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The gentleman's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30058	Mr. President, here I can't, I've been fighting the party my whole life, so I can't, the party's always behind me. I'd like you to let me... Here's how the party is, though, now in its own name and termed democratic, you see how it behaves. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I won't fight. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30059	I don't know, Agent Stazic. If you are warned by taking away the words, why do you keep speaking? Why don't you stick to the Rules of Procedure? Should we perhaps apply some other measures to you? No, it would seem, because you should only face those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which the chairman requires, but in which I will not, clearly, apply them to take you away in another way that is provided for by the Rules of Procedure of the Speaker. Representative Ivo Loncar, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30060	Mr. President, Mr. Stazic has injured Article 214 by insulting who he has arrived here. I'm used to it because as SDP spokeswoman today, he was from 91st to 95st spokeswoman and a very bad HDZ and I know how he corrected my texts, etc., etc. He said it here, but I'll use his dictionary, one incredible lie, beware, that the cheated voters, that many MPs have put tens of thousands of kunas in their pocket illegally, etc., etc. Where was this Mr. Stazic when his party broke down in the past term HSLS and created LIBRU from it, so when he went after those representatives the money. And I'll talk about it later in my debate. I have a correction to an incorrect quote but I didn't...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30061	Yeah. Honourable representative Zvonimir Puljic. Correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30062	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Stazic's incorrect claim is that the SDP did not receive money for independent representatives. He did not prove it by any argument and my disputation of my claim because the evidence should be sources from the account, the government's budget according to the SDP account, but he tried to strengthen that claim once by amletic articulation. The fact is that they received and still receive money for MPs who are independent of their party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30063	Honorable representative Ivo Loncar, correction of an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30064	Mr. President, who here could make all the inaccuracies that Mr. Stazic said correct. He says a representative's break, working in the Parliament, that you can free and transport, etc., etc. That's all incorrect. Mr. Stazic, the Law on Political Parties was passed in April 2001. Remember who was in power back then. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As far as I know on the list there were six independent representatives, tell the Croatian public if you received money for them in the past term. Ivo Lončar has not received a lip in the past four years or so, and now that he's going to be in the future I don't know, that's what I'm going to fight for. And one more thing if I can put it in front of this House. Please, when you and your party buddies go out to the field who's costing you, is your pocket paying toll, fuel, hotel bills, etc., etc. ... I can do this... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30065	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30066	Did you take the loans? Can you show that you've been taking loans for the election campaign? Can you prove it? I can do it. And don't talk casually.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30067	Thank you. Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30068	Thank you very much. I'm sorry Mr. Stazic said a lot of incorrect facts. I'm really sorry about his whole speech. Only two of them I'll mention and correct. First of all, there are no independent representatives, I'm here with one four terms, so I guess Mr. Stazic hasn't seen me before. The other one is that eye, and I'm here, and I'm really sorry that I have some sympathy for Mr. Stazic, and I'm sorry that he talked about corruption and shopping. Because such things must, such accusations must be directed to his colleague, Mr. Mati Arlovic, who voted for those decisions twice, not once, twice.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30069	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected Vice-President Mato Arlovic, will clearly indicate which article of the Rules of Procedure was injured.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30070	An article of the Rules of Procedure which discusses the solemn oath of MPs has been injured. I ask you nicely to warn Mr Furi Radin that he is obliged to keep an oath under which he undertakes to respect the Constitution and the law and by law it is forbidden to influence how any representative will vote on any matter. And in that respect I ask him to stick to his facts of the law. That's number one. And number two. As I voted on the Committee on the Constitution in the minutes, I warned in January when I first voted on the fact that non-party deputies could be financed as criteria by the fact that this money should belong to the parties and that it can be talked about legal void and that when it comes to changing the law, I did not say that the Law on political parties should be amended but the law, I meant the Law on the Rights of Representatives when it comes to the individual part, but I will say that in my discussion. I therefore ask my colleague Furia Radin to observe the Constitution and the law and his oaths that he has sworn in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30071	With the best will of my colleagues, Arlovic, I do not see that this is an injury to the Rules of Procedure that you are calling upon to be hurt by Agent Furio Radin. The attorney's oath is that the representative will stick to the Constitution, the law and work on all the progress... The Republic of Croatia and by quoting whether it is yours, whether you and how you voted on the Constitutional Committee on that decision does not mean a violation of the oath or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja, the correction of an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30072	Dear President Mr. Stazic has made a number of incorrect claims that have come in the form of inappropriate remarks, inadmissible innuendos and qualifications. I will correct only one agreement, the Jordan-Sanader Agreement. The agreement depends on the votes of the three representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners as well as the parliamentary majority, not on newspaper inscriptions directed by Mr Stazic, among other things. The representatives of the Croatian party of pensioners have earned their mandate honorably and correspond to their voters and we also represent those for whom Mr Stazic did not have during the past term and today there is no social sensibility... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30073	IDS representative club, respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30074	I promise I'll be as decadent as possible. Dear Mr. President, the distinguished IDS attorneys clearly have no doubt, the compensation belongs to the one who has run for counsel. If this is IDS and if someone on our list has entered the Assembly then that money should go to the IDS, if this is HDZ HDZ, SDP SDP, HSP HSU, HSU HSU. It means that if an agent leaves the candidate party during the term of office, the compensation should remain with the party who has invested in it certain funds which are clearly returned to it from the budget. That's fair, that's the only logical thing, all that's left of us is a political whorehouse. So much of this law is amoral. So the fee has to be followed by the client. There is a clear question of what to do with independent MPs. How do you treat them? So those who entered the election with their name, or their last name, rather than the party's exhibits. To assume that they had a certain cost, say, at the mandate as well as the parties. There was a moment ago Mr. Lonchar assured this Parliament that he had taken credit for his campaign, which I believe. However, he entered the parliament as a member of a small party. We're all aware that he actually brought that party into parliament and not that party to him. But for me, it is mentioned the principle with which I started, which I have said that money goes to the one under which you sign enter the House of Dogma. It means something that's not being questioned. Like the Bible. We have one problem with independent agents. The former law did not assume compensation, which is also questionable. Here's a case in Istria that all the independent council members of, I don't know the City Council of the city of Poreč, Pula are still seeking compensation and it seems to me that local self-government is calling for this former law we had, and it's mostly not paying them. But the question arises, is that okay, is that perhaps questionable? It would be convenient to see how this is handled in some other units of local self-government. The fact is, this law will make us a gift-mar in the field because everyone is now going to refer to this parliamentary analogy. Clearly, today it will be treated as buying independent agents. However, I agree with Mr Furio Radin, why it was voted in favour of the decision, among other things, and some opposition MPs, in the first month of this year. I personally believe that was the wrong decision. But the question is, was such a decision unfair? However, there is another problem. Some MPs, as Mr. Hrelja said, have the support of 15 or 20 thousand votes, and some have been elected to the Assembly by 500 or as a thousand votes have said, are representatives of national minorities. It was guilty of anything past the House's meeting, this one gave up the double right to vote, more specifically positive discrimination, because it was directly punished by the parties representing minorities, and it was wrong there in 99 when it decided that the number of MPs in this house would increase from 128 to 151, today in 152. Now we're here, though, where we are. This mandate was due to pass when fees were due under the old law, according to an interpretation that had been so far. And possibly these new solutions that are now being applied, or proposed, should have started to apply after the new elections. So it's for that future convocation. This is how we encourage a well-paid conversion, and that's not right. And someone good said from the HNS Club that this law is not fixed, but that this law is being manipulated. It is certain that as Stazic said, this credible home is being disavowed. And it kind of discredits everything. No matter how many representatives don't have a table, no phone, nothing, we're left with a red cloth for all public frustrations. On the other hand, I'm reading, and that's what I was talking about this morning, that the directors of the INA recently or they're going to share it, they're dividing millions and a half of kuna severances. So these deputys, Mr. Dragicevic, who should go now, I don't know there, are getting a million-and-a-half refund. Croatia's insurance director, which I think has been wrongly replaced, has also been severanced if I'm not wronged by 300,000 kuna. Compensation is now being proposed by public officials, media employees owned by the state. It's a principle that's certainly true in our local utility companies. But on this occasion, I'm pushing for that practice of high severance to be lifted. They are all, so all these directors are there because, I will also say my political merits and in the event of a change of government let those gentlemen have their mandates at their disposal. If the minister or representative has nothing, after losing his status, let the directors of these large state-owned enterprises who are all paid better than parliamentary representatives, ministers and Prime Ministers and the president of the state follow the fate of the Prime Minister or of the state or parliamentary representative. We clearly do not support this Law, but nothing would be disputed if those rules were in force for the representatives of that future calling. I agree with Mr Loncar, who noted that it was certainly not fair when the money instead of HSLS was rerouted to the LIBRE Group in the past term. But the fact that it wasn't correct back then shouldn't be repeated today. For the end, MPs have nothing but a salary that is certainly not small for Croatia. But it is certainly not excessive, especially if a person lives for 15 or 20 days 200 or 300 miles [300 km] away from his family. But I honestly think that MPs should be in a different status, but that's what's going to happen when we fight for this direct election of MPs. And then one half-parliamentary system where we are now going to be replaced by a paraliamentary one. For the end, the IDS Club does not support this principle as a single convocation itself should not adapt electoral legislation, nor should we call them material rights a constituency should not adapt itself to itself but clearly for a future period, so that everyone enters an election race with pre-clear views. That's it, and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30075	Thank you very much. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first is representative Ivo Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30076	Mr. Vice President, counterpart Cain said I quote "if a representative leaves the party during the term of office, then he must return the mandate to the party and the money remains a party". Please. So that's completely incorrect. A colleague Cain and his party in the past term were in the coalition government, then it happened that first they left the HDZ no one talked about it, so the Croatian bloc left, so no one talked about it. After that HSLS split up, gone to Libra no one talked about it, followed them the money, followed them the mandates. I assure you, and it's not that, it's not hard to check. In the last term, I'm not talking about which party I had a better election result than the party's president. It's clear how long I've brought a representative behind me for as long as I am now. And I'm gonna say this next. Let him check himself out, and I'll say that, and after what, in ten years, is the party on whose list I've entered in all 10 years, how many total votes? A few hundred. And another correction to the incorrect allegations, some opposition MPs voted for this decision in January, according to counterpart Cain. That's not true. This Decision was adopted unanimously on 13 January, 24 March and 3 November this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30077	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30078	I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30079	Thank you, you gave up. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30080	It is quite inappropriate for the debate to raise the issue of the establishment of LIBRE. Mr. Agent Cain said that it was incorrect what happened at the time of the establishment of LIBRE which was not only incorrect on his part, but was incorrectly alleged. The party was formed, it received money in accordance with Croatian laws, and no subsequent changes were made to the laws after the party was established. The people who founded the party followed the programme chosen by Croatian voters. And they have the right to do so under the law. And whether the question is correct or not, I leave it to Mr. Caine. I think it is politically quite correct to follow the programme on which you are selected by Croatian voters. And connecting it to this story here, it's really incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30081	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30082	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I am correcting the quote of my colleague Caine, who says it was not fair that Libra was later received on the basis of her representatives after being formed and established after the results of those representatives from the HSLS. It is completely incorrect, however, that LIBRA has received this money fairly and if not, for the simple reason that the financing of the parties is regulated by law, it is regulated by law that each party has the right to a proportionate part of the funds in relation to the number of its representatives, provided that there is at least one representative, and in this respect LIBRA has received all legal and fair money in the past and in this mandate. It should also be said that in the first month a decision has been made and I voted alone for such a decision because I believe that the party may have representatives on its lists and in the Assembly who are party members and non-party persons who are on party lists but it does not say that such persons could not be obtained but that the political party is given a relatively large number of its representatives in the Assembly. Therefore, the part needed and was properly decided and, if the decision is to be made, the law should be amended, but not the Law on political parties, but the Law on the financing of MPs, which is something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30083	Thank you very much. Let's move on. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30084	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! There's really not much to talk about here. Maybe there's a lot to argue about, maybe there's a lot of corrections to the exact and incorrect allegations, but I don't really see that there's a lot of reasons and there's a lot of room for some kind of debate. First of all, this Parliament probably more than any other institution commits to the public's position, both in other things and in this matter. And the public attitude was very strict and very clear, and that is that such things are not acceptable. And secondly, the subsequent harmonisation of the law with some kind of state of play even when there are legitimate reasons, the deep reasonable reasons is always risky and in this case I think it's particularly risky and it's for a number of reasons. First, for reasons referred to by colleagues and colleagues, which is that the institute of an independent representative in the right sense must be protected from any kind of manipulation. And that it must be a matter of free choice for those who opt for that kind of political action either at local or national level. And any attempt to bring the Institute of Independent Representatives into contact with potential financial benefits or possible financial recovery simply endangers the Institute of Independent Representatives and the meaning of independent representation. And that, in my opinion, is another important reason why we shouldn't engage in this business. Another reason that is particularly important to me is because I am a representative of the national minority of one although elected on the political party list and as a representative of one political party representatives of national minorities are elected in accordance with the specific provisions and the Constitution, and the Constitutional Law, and the Law on Elections and the Law on Political Parties. And if nothing else is to protect the national minority representation or representation institutes should be particularly careful with how it is supported, funding the work of national minority representatives. And that in my opinion, for all of us and especially for the representatives of the national minorities should be a motive, there should be a reason why we should try to avoid generalisation when it comes to the debate on the issue of independent MPs. And at the very least get out of that debate as a special case. However, because, in part but in the case of representatives of national minorities, the principle of positive discrimination is applied when it comes to the number of seats needed in the Assembly, the number of votes required for the parliament's term of office. And now I'm going to say something that I think is correct to say. This is where coffees, lunches, travel expenses, etc. come in. Let it be said publicly that 12, 13 or 16 thousand as much as any of us receives at the salary flats and the possibility of getting a car, to get travel expenses that it is not enough to carry out a parliamentary mandate within a certain national minority. Let it be said to members of national minorities and let it be said to the public, and then we will clearly be able to see that it is not an argument holding water. And it can't be. And besides, it is indeed the fact that the decision, by January decision of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, has violated the reputation of the minority representative institute in the Assembly. Well, we weren't a minority club anymore than a millionaire club, and we certainly don't need it because we're not. Because most of the time we represent the poor woman bigger than we are alone. I have to say it for myself and for those I represent. The third thing, maintaining a political party, and the parliamentary mandate is not the same. Developing the ability for parties to get a mandate and develop the possibility of appearing as an independent election representative is not the same and cannot be the same. The party needs to develop infrastructure, all of which will work every day, and this is a single election appearance, for one electoral term. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that there can be no equality in this regard between the fees paid by political parties and the fees that independent representatives could receive. If there is a need to consider fees for independent representatives, then it should be considered as specific cases but not based on the general position as well as political parties because there are no grounds. I'm sorry, but the money that the SDSS gets is not only not to see but it is still obliged to provide certain funds so that the party can function from what it gets for pay. No one is forcing us to do this, but it is a commitment that we have made in our decision so that we can do better the work that we consider the party to be doing. And someone here said, I don't know who, whether a colleague of Hrelja or a colleague of Cain, representatives of national minorities are elected from 500 to 1,000 votes. Maybe some. Representative Stanimirovic was elected with 26,000 votes, me with slightly less than 26,000. I don't want to expose it to anyone as an account, but it's the result of the party's activity and not just me. And this party has an activity to act from national to local level. Both HDZ, SDP, and any other that appears there. Therefore, comparisons of this species cannot stand. Because the provisions of the law are not the same. These are specific provisions in the Law relating to both the election and the mandate of representatives of national minorities, and I suppose also to the mandate of independent representatives. And the doubt that could be heard here could be a cause for transfers from party to independent deputies is, of course, justified. Especially if it is a large amount of money and we simply have to be able to remove that doubt, and therefore I ask representatives of national minorities where I belong to get out of it and to seek out some other modality to compensate for their work and their representation mandate in what they lack funds from what they get for their wages, i.e. travel expenses and other kinds of expenses. Under the circumstances, we'll be able to support it. And under these circumstances, now that it's started with this SDSS Club proposal, it won't be able to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30085	Thank you very much. We have two corrections. First Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30086	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Pupovac was talking about how we have here, depending on how who, 13, 15, 16 thousand kunas, we have the possibility of using the car, that we have the possibility of a parliamentary pause, etc. I'm either for it or for us all to be equal and not for someone more equal or for us all to receive or for no one to receive. I'll tell you now and it's very easy to check. Since the beginning of this term, I've been in my constituency 35 times, 35 times all about my own expense. In my previous assembly, I have not received a single lip, only if I ever left on behalf of the board as I am now, would the Parliament cover it for me. So please nicely, when someone goes on behalf of their party, on behalf of the company, on behalf of anyone, is he covering it from his expense or from someone else. Well, I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for it, and I'm up for this money to go into a special account, and we're just as well as the parties have to justify it. One more thing! Every MP who was party-organised pre-annual elections for him received 260 thousand kuna, I did not get a single lip. If you want colleagues, and you need to know that in 19 days, I drove my own car myself, I made 75,000 miles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30087	Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30088	Mr. Chairman, my colleague Pupovac made an incorrect claim that independent candidates for one term, for single use, are about that way. This is not based on either the Constitution or the Law and the simple claim is incorrect. They are equal participants in the parliamentary election competition at any level. Therefore, there is no legal basis to claim that the construction of infrastructure, co-financing of political work for independent representatives or independent lists does not apply as well as to parties. Nowhere does this party's exclusiveity exist in the Constitution and the laws that treat this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30089	Thank you very much. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure in 17.08 expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. It is next to the HSS Club and Mr. Representative Luka Roic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30090	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When a law is discussed in this way, when the hall is unquestionably developed and passiond, it means that it is a law that surely suffers great criticism. When we argue the reasons why we support the amendments to the law often and exaggerate in the argument of others we cause a reaction that must be the same or worse. These laws, especially when they come from the most relevant body, the working body in the Croatian Parliament, which should take care of the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and all the values this Croatian House has as the most legislative body, have the responsibility that such a law can never come to these benches. That's what I'm saying because in this law we can speak this way. Some people before me said, "Dear MPs, this House is a chicken house and some say it's a circus." And I could say, unfortunately, he's become both a market and a drink and a casino and that's very ugly. This is not where you bid on financial resources, this is not where you demand money for certain privileges. This is not the place all the media are talking about, and the predecessor before me was talking about. It doesn't matter what we think of this law. This Law is what the Croatian public thinks and the Croatian public condemns this way of policymaking. First of all, I would not want to enter the political and legal dimension of this law at all. First of all, I'd like to talk about the political dimension. But I must say, first of all, is an independent representative, does such a representative have in this Chamber, is the independent representative the one who was elected to the electoral political party in the election system that is the proportional system and in which each of us was voted for by the political party, were there independent representatives? There could only be non-partisan persons. Is an independent representative just the one who, with his name, went out to the Croatian public and chose the passage to this House of Commons. It's the only independent representative! And everyone else, forgive me, but you're all just dissatisfied MPs, dissatisfied for any reason, I won't say the other word and it might stand in this House and it's inappropriate to speak in this way in this House. And you're just that no matter who you are, me or you or anyone else third. And since you already feel so invited and so important that in the name of the Croatian people in front of this House you are talking about the need to finance all those who deal with politics why don't you choose the position of the one who belongs to you in the nature of things? If you had the right to speak from this pay phone, you'd have the right to be an independent representative, and I'd support you in that. The basic right of every representative and also the task is to talk about problems, to paint problems, to bring them to the public and to take positions and not to receive wages. It's a shame and what we're receiving, let alone what we still want. Our integrity is completely disrupted. I don't know if anyone's watching this and it's better if they don't. I wish we had locked ourselves in this hall and talked about it with each other and discussed what the implications of these attitudes and such laws might have on the Croatian public. The height of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian representative is very low and all public research shows this. And that's disturbing. And if this is how we treat the work we do, if this is how we look for a fee for our work, whether it is the rights of political parties, then we better not be in the Croatian House and in the Croatian Parliament. I think the idea of legislation was, I'm not a lawyer, and I totally don't care what the right to think about it, but I think it was certainly the idea to finance the political party as the basic foundation of the democratic structure of Croatia, the development of pluralism and multilateral life in Croatia. The party has its own needs, has its material organisational needs, all those needs that should have an organised society and need money for it, but the political work of an individual needs a healthy attitude, a fair attitude and I am sure that the people will approve this position and will receive a mandate on that basis and then have the right to ask the issue of funding from their work and their additional needs. And I would, and I would even support them in that. I would support them if they were alone, if all those who will, and we know how many thousands of candidates apply to the election and never come to this high house. I believe and want to believe that this is a quick decision, a quick decision and a committee and all those who have proposed such a law to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. I believe in the integrity and morality of all. I believe you will vote exclusively on this law on your own conscience. I believe indeed, and I invite you to do so, and I believe that this bill will not be passed in this house. Not because I'm saying it couldn't be solved differently, they all said different laws, changes in other laws, all other mechanisms, but this law means a public invitation to trade in our mandates. All of us, and many can't resist the sirens calling money and the succumbing and most morals. And that's the only reason anyone does it. And I assure you that this law calls on people, calls on parliamentary deputies to join, to join this institute because we have the right to think so, I have the right to doubt that because other colleagues said so, I know from practice that no independent agent has stayed on the opposition side. And that's enough doubt that we believe this is deliberate and careless, I believe careless, but it's a very dangerous precedent. Very dangerous precedent. If we allow it, remember? It was also in the past term of MPs who left the party and went to non-party, not or independent so-called now independent candidates, but we did not then discuss giving them material compensation. We also remember Mr. Canjuga and Mr. Ljerka Mintas-Hodak and perhaps many more that I have forgotten, and all those who have come out means no, does not care about the financing of the political work of MPs the motive of this law. The motive is completely different. According to my assessment, he is immoral and dishonest, and I believe he will not get a pass in the Croatian home.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30091	Those qualifications of dishonesty and immorality, I think they're exaggerated, and now we have two corrections to an incorrect assumption. The first is Mr. Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30092	Mr. Vice President, I was really surprised by my dear friend Luke Roic's speech, but let's start by correcting the incorrect allegations. He asked if there were any independent representatives in this assembly? Luka, there is. I was in the last session, I was now. Please, Luke, how long have you had in the last session a representative in the 5th constituency, what in the 4th, how much in this election now? I had 3% more votes than your president. Your president's been flying around me for a year like a cat around hot oatmeal to keep me on your list. It is my political position that I am not in any party because I believe that the parties are corrupt and that the parties are destroying the integrity of the political system. Right, right, right. [[Applause.]] Likewise. And I, I, I'm not asking Luka right now, but I'm asking a lot of people here would the way I got into this Parliament and they came in? ... Yeah, right, that's why you're around me, and you, and that's why you flew around me for two years. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30093	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30094	Because I thought you were a party but you're nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30095	It is also also inappropriate to claim that the parties are corrupt. I think we're crossing, crossing the frameworks of a normal debate using inappropriate terms and offensive terms, I must say. Please refrain from such qualifications in the follow-up to this debate. And now the correction of the incorrect quote by Mr. Zvonimir Puljic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30096	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, the tone of what fellow Roic said was inappropriate, but I cannot correct it. However, I am correcting the incorrect assumption that no independent representative has remained on the opposition side is entirely incorrect and at this time, fellow Roic. Independent MPs are now on the opposition side and still allow the funds, that the funds they belong to for political work are paid at the expense of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30097	On behalf of the promoter, President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and Political System, Mr Drazen Bošnjaković please welcome [[Intruder: Where do you get this interpretation of where it says it?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30098	My colleagues and colleagues have gone into a more dynamic tone of debate, and I think some are calculating and resolving their relations from the previous assembly. I'm here first, my first term in parliament is so I'm not obliged to participate, is I? What I'm saying is, first of all, I don't think there are any MPs in this House that can be bought, that can be manipulated, and I think that all of these people sitting here are honest and honest and it wouldn't be right for us to create a different picture of ourselves in public, and I don't think that discussions of such a level should lead here. This is obviously about two different concepts. It is one concept that represents the view that the means to work should only be obtained by political parties, and another concept here is the proposal that the means to work should also be obtained by independent representatives and representatives of national minorities. What I want to say again: It is not about personal means that go into someone’s pocket, which one should use for his private purposes and for his private needs. It is the means for political work because, like all of us who are within certain parties and who are working within political parties, the party gets a certain amount for us, and from that financial amount, that work can be financed. And this decision, which we are proposing, we just want to create the same conditions that all the other ones, who are not within the party, are equal to us. Yes, they too have the resources necessary for their political work. Because they, too, agree, we'll agree, I think as Parliamentarians, should work. They should have an office somewhere, they should have some fax, they should have a secretary. They are likely to communicate with their electoral body in order to be able to express these attitudes in this assembly. And that's all it's about. And very easily we can see we are approaching the European Union, we can see experiences outside. Experiences outside are very different. In Germany, you have a parliamentary salary of EUR 7000. It has a material cost of 3000 and some EUR, and it still receives EUR 10 000 in compensation for its employees, and yet more parties are participating in those funds. So I don't think this debate should be based on some kind of personal conflict, on reasons and all that. There are, indeed, two different concepts that I see from the debate. Our decision, indeed, would be based exclusively on having equal and equal conditions for all. Both the parties and those other political entities sitting in this House and who must present their views and their electoral bodies in this House. And just in that sense, we're all equal and we're all equally worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30099	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30100	Mr. Vice President, here I am in the heat of a struggle, I would like to apologize to all the political parties. I said they were corrupt, I meant compromised. Because I see what I've written here, so I apologize one more time to all the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30101	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of National Minority Mr. Representative Furio RAdine please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, if it hadn't been for these words now, Mr. Bosnjakovic, I might have been tempted to pollute sharply with those who are presenting their arguments trying to challenge the fact that the representatives who entered as independent do not have the same rights as the other MPs. Although they all have the same duties. You see, today there's been one thing that doesn't usually happen here. We're discussing a serious topic and it's the theme of funding political entities and no one has questioned the fact that it's not on television. Which is why this happened because if we were to start a debate in front of TV cameras now, then we would have to say how much we really have on the basis of political action on the cheek of treason for political party work. How much SDP gets money, how many of you there are MPs, times a million to four years. What about these money is you went, see how many times you justify these money to the same Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure did you go to see how. That's not the way to pass the audit. And the review in the parties has never been. No, I don't. No, I don't. The second thing I'm saying is she's never been serious. Well, we'll go see, we'll go see and we'll give it to the press, and I agree with you how you've justified these last four years' money. Give it to the press. E.V. enters the record, please give it to the press. Because the press doesn't know. Then the normal thing is that when we ask the parties how independent representatives will be financed, so normal old that we will have the answer that independent representatives do not have the same funding rights as the party. So what are we gonna do as if we were going to ask the fox how she feels about chickens? That's normal. So now we should go ask those who can lose that kind of MPs and lose them, because they don't agree with the party anymore, now we're going to ask them about that money more that the material resources for those MPs don't get. They mean bad. But at a time when, for example, The Liberal Party received 2 MPs who entered the minority list as an independent, and played the club in the past term in a rhyme, no one disputed the fact. Everyone agreed it was a good thing. DA intercessors Tibor Santo and other representative from the Ukrainian minority that they practically made up the club made up of a liberal foreign club and thus strengthened the position, not the opposition, but the position. No one said that. Then it is said that simply if you become an independent representative that you have no right to receive funds as an independent representative, then that should also apply to those who go out. And they form a new party by staying in the Parliament. I'm not going to mention Libra, DC, but that's the fact that new parties have formed and that the money went with those parties. What's not the same thing as someone who becomes an independent agent from a party. It's absolutely the same. I'm going to invite you now to compare the current location of the report to the spent funds of my office, because I opened the office and your clients. I invite you to advance, you, you, because you dispute, I invite you both to the HSS and which. I mean, I'm sorry that you said before that none of the MPs stayed on the opposition side. Well, I was an opposition to Tudjman's HDZ for eight years. I mean it's, those facts don't hold water. And I was an opposition to you too, Mr. Djapic. So we're simply here it's an unequal one of an unequal battle. I think independent MPs especially those who enter as independent advocates to have the exact same rights to their work that other representatives have. And I guess that's what you handled when you were your party when she voted on the board, and now you're angry with you against it. But you voted for January, you flattered Mr. For. And now you voted for and then especially you voted for, as is HSS, no HSS voted for, was not for, but HNS voted for, Mr. Lesar voted then in January with an atom. But you've made that distinction between those who enter as a dependant advocate or not. The HSP, also through its independent representative, also voted in favour of the decision on the board within 1 month. I'm sorry if they didn't tell you, but that's because I saw the papers. It is. So to sum up, I'm also, I've reacted a little harshly because I don't like after 14 years of work, and that's the first year I get some money for my political work. A real year and I've been in this House for 14 years. I don't like being told or alluding to things. Especially when it's first voiced and then alluded. I understand that the parties do not like independent representatives, I understand that the parties do not like non-party life. But in our constitution, it says he's based on a multiparty, that's true. But it doesn't say anywhere that the foreigner has to be financed anymore. Let's be real transparent once, as you always say it is and give up that money, and take the money as well as the unions. From your membership. Why would the citizens? When the citizens decided to finance the parties. You're gonna tell me. But when that law was made, no one ever resisted. And secondly, when the bill went up 100 percent of all SDPs and the opposition never objected. They went double on the bill, budget bonds. No one said no because it goes to the parties. And you tell me what the parties mean I don't know, I if I were you I'd tell the party president one part must go for the MP. Because a representative also has needs. And in all the parlametts, that's how it works, and let the presidents spend their money on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30103	Thank you, lyapa. We have three corrections to the incorrect quote, the first Mr. Nikola Vuljanić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleague has said that we are also discussing the financing of political entities. That's not true. I don't know where that euphemism came from. We are discussing amendments and amendments to the law on political parties. Not about political entities, there are various political entities, we are talking about parties today. Let's stay on it. The colleague also said that we claim that an independent representative does not have the right to funds. an independent representative shall have the right to funds, each representative shall individually have the right to his own representative's fee. If it is necessary for an independent representative because there is no party to have the right to a larger pause, we double it, we factor it in, we triple it, but let's not interpret it as financing political parties, because it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30105	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Ms. Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30106	I'm correcting Mr Furi Radin's incorrect claim that the parties don't account for spending their funds, it's simply incorrect. We therefore have a law that obliges us to use money for certain purposes, and that is how we as a party are subject to all tax inspections and state audits.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30107	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30108	Mr. Vice President, I am correcting again the incorrect assumption that some MPs voted in January and for independent candidates. That's not true. It was voted in January for MPs who are non-partisan persons, but were elected from a list of parties and are still represented by these parties in parliament. Therefore, under the law, we felt that this could then be, and an open debate on independent representatives who were not elected or representing the interests of the parties was then said to be amended and the law should be complemented, which would be particularly regulated by these issues because there was considered to be a legal gap and that the issue was not regulated. The second amendment is related to DC and LIBRU. It is not true that they were getting money until they registered, until they became political parties. When they became political parties and had the status of parliamentary parties, they also received the money from the Liberal Party, Tibor Santo and counterpart Graljuk were members of the Liberal Party and had the right to be representatives of the Liberal Party club, not only independent representatives as representatives of minorities. And it is not true that the parties do not submit a report, that parliamentary parties are obliged and submit a report to the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, on the financing obtained from the budget, and that these parties have also been subject to audit checks by the State Audit and, as far as I know in some of the parties in particular in mine, there has been multiple audits but have not found any illegality in spending these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30109	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30110	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at first I will point out immediately that the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community fully supports the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system as a competent and working body for the purpose of saying the questions which have been discussed and the Law on Political Parties. Before I go towards what I was going to say in this debate, let me also say two sentences as a member of the Committee on the Constitution, a Rules of Procedure and a political system that was present to the sittings when this proposal was crystallized after the debate and participation in this debate were taken by not only by members of the Committee who were therefore appointed there on the basis of the proposal of their political parties, but also by the external members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, very prominent and the Honorary People, the Supreme Lawyers and I would really like to present the minutes from the Committee's meeting and to see in which way these people and as experts discussed this issue, and I will say for the purposes of my debate that they have discussed exactly in terms of the proposal, so the Committee on the Constitution and the political system and that any segment of this problem has been discussed and that it has been agreed that the Committee on the terms of the Constitution and the amendments would be made to the political amendments, and the amendments to the amendments, which were made to the amendments. As for the position of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, which I had originally said, let me divide my exposure into three wholes. First, in relation to Article 19. The law on political parties. Secondly, I would refer to the allocation criteria, but also to the character of those funds that are thus transformed towards political parties and third not least, so the purpose of these funds. When we talk about Article 19 of the current law, we will all agree and therefore should not be a lawyer by profession, that he has actually entered into this sphere of our relations, that is to say, one legal void, that is, has not been adequately or properly resolved in that time after the election, the financing of political parties or all of those representatives who entered Parliament after the elections have been made and the verification of their mandates. I think we're all going to agree with that fact, because if that wasn't the way I suppose we wouldn't even be discussing this today. And indeed the problem has been seen, this problem has emerged in what way to interpret this article in 19th because its formulation is that money belongs to political parties, but relatively to the number of its representatives. So, in a grammar sense, how legal regulations can be interpreted, can be interpreted grammatically, that Article 19 can be interpreted as belonging to political parties relatively to the number of its members in Parliament, and I think that, then, under quotes, we could conclude "the mathematics" because it is clear and logical, but it is an open question and what about those MPs who are not members of that political party, but according to this proportional system Dont's method of calculating, and then they fall to those mathematics as far as they are worth in terms of numbers or voters one mandate, so in such a way they have entered the Croatian Parliament, which we will do with these representatives, or whether they are entitled to finance them under this article or some other article. That's where I'm going to move on to this second part, so the distribution criteria and the character of the funds. If the allocation criterion, and indeed it is and in law is given as a percentage, to be calculated by the number of mandates won, that is the criterion. So each political party gets the total amount of funds when, therefore, calculated primarily by which agent, the mandates are summed up and these are the annual cash. Those are the criteria. And the character of these funds especially when we talk about people who are therefore not members of that political party are independent candidates, we cannot identify their political work and action not only in Parliament but also in the field with any political party defined as defined by the Law on Political Parties and whether they have the right to these funds under that key or not have the right to such funds. After a comprehensive debate, and not anywhere, on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of this House, it was unanimously after the debate that these people also have the right to these means, but these are not their private means, these are not the means to buy cars, to spend them in one or another way or another, these are precisely the means that they serve to act normally, because despite their being independent, so let's say individuals or individuals, it is obvious that they are politically exposed, that they have their own electoral unit, have their own electoral base, have their own political work which is not exclusively and solely tied to Parliament but, therefore, both in terms of both representative and representative and legislative body as defined by this House. So it's obvious, to cut back, that these people have those costs, too. Each of them, I guess, has the right and the usual terrain, so I guess they have the right to both computer and internet access, so that I don't say any other things, and when you see the amount of these assets that it is a year, it really isn't about such categories... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Are you talking to me? ... Are you telling me something? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not about big funds, it's one thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, the purpose of these funds is, in terms of the role of the Constitution, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, that these people have an obligation to subscribe to whom after the funds have been spent? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system which has an insight into how these funds have been allocated or spent. And to conclude, all that I have heard here, and especially from qualifications, that the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system are immoral, dishonest, that they have made it possible for the system of corruption to be made possible, and I have also written it down, but it was at the beginning of the debate itself. That they were embarrassed, that, in fact, by doing so or by working on the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, they were doing absolutely contrary to some ethical principles. Absolutely not, and I will conclude my debate on behalf of the club as follows. The Croatian Democratic Community MPs' club supports this solution and this is the only way to resolve this problem by amending the rules themselves. In the sense of that legal gap that the existing Article 19 has certainly left to the contrary. Therefore, Article 19 of the existing Law. And finally, I propose that this Proposal for a Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system be fully supported because it will surely resolve this matter in a legally acceptable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30111	Thank you very much. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Mr. Nikola Vuljanić first.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A respected colleague all the time speaks of party-listed non-party representatives as independent candidates. Well, people, they're not by definition independent. They accepted the programme of a particular political party. They're not members, but party membership is not mentioned anywhere in the Law as a criterion. The mandate is mentioned, a representative who came on the party list is mentioned, accepting the party's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30113	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30114	Mr. Representative Tomljanovic said it was not about large funds. That might be his opinion, you should ask the citizens what they think about it, and that it's big funds, shows also the fact that we've got these days' enquiries on clubs. Instead of five daily newspapers, we choose three, and the total savings in a year for all 12 clubs is 30 thousand kuna. At the same time, six independent MPs will get about a million and a half, 500 thousand kuna, which is 50 times more than this savings on newspapers that are going to lose constituency clubs. So much for not being a big asset.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30115	Thank you very much. It's all relative and the size of the funds, I think. Well, it's a pure controversy about whether it's big or small. Replica, Mr. Representative Jaksa Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30116	Well, now I don't know how much it makes sense. It's my replica because Ivo Lonchart's back. I was going to say that em doesn't waste any wild words because there aren't any MPs from national minorities or Mr. Lonchar, here he is now. And on the other hand, it seems to me that it would be best for us all to declare ourselves independent and to take away one 10, 12 years, 15 years, and take what we can take. That would be best. Why do we need parties and what do we need elections for? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30117	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30118	So I'm going to replicate, or respond to the replica in a way that I spoke in front of the club, and then you have no business right to replicate me, you can correct the incorrect assumption. But I'll replicate you in a way. Of course, we can caricate things. We caricate things at any time, we can joke. However, there is one level of responsibility, responsibility in terms of solving some problem that is imposed or should be resolved in a normative way. We have, we've heard the most different debates here today. No affirmatives. How do you resolve that? The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has been open to all of you, so why don't we just accept some sort of over-proposal of yours. I have not heard these proposals today, and neither in this ad let alone the time of debate but only this problem, I think we are serious people, used for daily political purposes to create one false perception or concept in public. And you, of course, in your opposition have the right to do so, but in our position, we have the right to recognize it and tell you the truth in your face. You're politicizing this problem because in the last term when there was even more, let's say, you haven't spoken a word about it. Today you use it as an unsuspecting, unargumented, caricated attack to show it to the public as it suits you, as it pleases you. And since, under quotes, the media is almost inclined to say that you have succeeded, but you are not entirely because I hope the public is listening to what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30119	Neither Mr. Marasovic should have received the replica nor could you have answered him, but both happened. I apologize to the Parliament. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Mr. Representative Joseph Leco. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right. Ms. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Indeed these legal carnages, the question arises as to what limits they can go to, but these are legal carnivores that don't break their necks, but they break both the little and crumbs of trust that we all have together, and that is what we have to do to restore it in some way. In any case, to rise, not to humble. This is the Law, it's been said more than once here, this is the Law on political parties and is exclusively talking about parties. He's talking about a legal person. Here and there they are mentioned, and that as a measure here was said, here is the controversial article of 19, which speaks with a saying exactly how they are financed and even indicates the way money comes to these political parties. So he says that the allocations of this article are presented to the political party's central account three months ago. So there's no doubt what the legislator meant then. Legislators have changed, so it was 93, 96, 98, and 2001. Sometimes the truth, the truth of the will law says more than he wanted... , sometimes less minus quam voluit and then sometimes requires such an indetermination by the legislator, or the law itself, necessary interpretation. [[The speaker speaks Latin, he doesn't understand.]] There is no need here for any interpretation of the committee itself, and at least for amending the law if we want any irregularities that are here to be corrected. Then it does not belong to the Law on Political Parties, because there will indeed be one disaster, and the people indeed do, may not know all the provisions well but really feel what is right, which is unfair and already in advance condemning such an act. So no parliamentary representative, whether he was a party, was a non-partisan, was an addict or an independent has the right to funds, has the right only to a political party. If he stands down and so on, the law may be unspeakable, but he didn't say. This is stated in other rights of MPs, i.e. state officials who can then be changed and some of the illogicalities or shortcomings, what is not covered by this law solved by another law. But this law could have said that because this Law on political parties is quite clear. But what are we going to get into here now? So everything that is illogical is born only by one greater illogicality. Paragraph 3 of the existing law, which is not proposed to be amended but only to add two new articles, says exactly that the amount of funding for each representative in the Croatian Parliament, so that the individual political party belongs to the amount of funds in proportion to the number of its representatives. And that so far has not even been questionable but is the question of who they are and who they are. But it is not disputed if they are members of one party. But what's going on here now? There is something that unfortunately preceded it, and one that preceded a course that was not at all moral and which does not serve any party, or any party member, either by party or by party. Our people on the SDP list after the election, long after the election, five, six months were invited and called to resist the Syrian name. Everything and everything was offered, up to one. However... And we'll say it in public. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And then, however, the rest of the people didn't cross, they didn't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what they are now offered with this law. They are offered and promised, and now these funds, you have the right, what this party has previously received, whose list you have appeared on, you will be entitled to these funds, or you will have to... take them because the party will not get them, and then it will fail if you do not take them. It's dangerous. But let me tell you something else. Not a colleague Mato, but a public one. Article 6(6) of the Law regulates the position and financing of political parties. So it's a constitutional category. This Law on Political Parties was adopted on the basis of explicit provisions of the Constitution. So it's a constitutional category. Both the constitutionalist and the legislator at the time and the legislator thought neither they could, nor the legislator could think otherwise than the founder said that he wanted only political parties to be financed in this way. Why? To develop parliamentaryism, but not only that, but also to develop the political infrastructure of a particular party so that it could be both developed and democratic. Because it was also a guarantee of the democracy of the entire society tomorrow either that party in opposition or was in power. Therefore, there is no dilemma or interpretation, and these changes alone will come into contradiction with the Law on political parties and contrary to the Constitution. And so I think we should leave this law alone and not put him in such a position as to be in conflict, or war with the Constitution itself. And only in the end. I think the perfect law is clear that not a lot of stories should be spent here, perhaps quoting an English historian who said that indeed someone else can bring us misfortune and trouble, but for the shame of gentlemen and for the responsibility that we ourselves, or humiliation, bear our own responsibility. And I really believe here, and once again, don't let that happen, it belongs to all of us. I don't know, maybe that's exactly what he's up to, so that's when everybody's guilty. Now maybe there's no camera, maybe there's someone and someone here said it's a good thing the public doesn't know about all this. But let's think about it one more time. Let's not pass laws that are contrary to the Constitution. These things that cause the opposition, how to resolve them, can indeed be solved as counterpart Arlovic explained by a completely different law. After all, they solve these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30121	Thank you very much. We have one replica and three corrections of an incorrect quote. First replica, Mr Emil Tomljanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30122	I will only replicate distinguished colleagues in that segment when she calls for responsibility, shame, morality, the role of our representatives in the sense of regulation. Your Honored colleague, you are also a member of that committee, so why did you not come to the appropriate working body for your opinion? That's one thing. ... Secondly, if it's an anti-constitutional one or you think it's an anti-constitutional regulation, the law, so you know how these, regardless of whether the cameras are involved or not, how this problem is solved. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30123	Replicate response, Ms. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30124	My dear colleague, I'm not obliged to explain to you what I'm going to say on some committee or what I'm not going to say on some committee. And in detail how it was voted at the first decision and what was said on that occasion I believe that you were not sitting in your ears but listening carefully, and then you heard what your colleague Arlovic said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30125	We can hardly see here or at all that anyone has been sitting on their own ears, but it is not appropriate to say so in the Parliament, but here we have a correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30126	Mr. Vice President, I'm extremely fond and lovable colleague Ingrid quoted Article 3 of Article 19, so I'm going to read it too. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament shall decide on the allocation of the funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article for each year to which it determines, I am now particularly emphasising this on the same amount of funding for each representative, so it is the representatives of the Croatian Parliament so that each political party belongs to the funds, the proportion of its representatives. Paragraph 2 of the same article reads, the resources referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be allocated to political parties who have at least one representative in the Croatian Parliament. In the past four years, I've been constantly explaining this, why don't I have the right to the money and why there's no right to get a party on whose list I'm on? And that was no less explained to me by anyone but the leaders of your party, respected and dear colleague Ingrid. I'm not a lawyer, but I consulted the lawyers. Can you please explain this to me and the Croatian public? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30127	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Zvonimir Puljic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30128	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It's incorrect what my colleague Ingrid said, that their people were offered everything and everything, that they were invited and persuaded. She didn't argue that with anything but an empty claim, so I'm going to deny it myself. But I'm also going to add that their people call them what they call them, but actually independent representatives from their lists receive this money neatly, the truth at the expense of the party. And if, miss, if this bill doesn't pass, I will personally ask the SDPs to return that money, because the independents have no right to these funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30129	Thank you very much. Let us continue, don't shout. Correction of the incorrect allegations Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30130	I am correcting my respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, who said the Law on Political Parties should leave the one now in effect. I believe that it should not be left alone, but should be amended and complemented, because Article 26 of the current Law still provides for penalties to be imposed among other things in the Kunian equivalent of 200 to 350 deute marks. As you know, that currency has ceased to exist, it's gone. And it is quite clear that a second criterion should be laid down for determining the kuna equivalentness, and it is obvious that the legality of the amendment and the addition of the law was not taken into account, but rather the purpose and purpose of the amendment, which was intended to be achieved. So it was a political achievement, not a legal goal, and that's exactly what we're discussing. Therefore, this should be discussed, not the legality of this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30131	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Milanka Opačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30132	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. I really, like many colleagues before me, think that the public attitude in this case is a question, whether we like it or not, I have to say that I don't like one part of the public opinion, which is that all politicians are mostly unfair, that thieves, that we steal, that we don't do our jobs here, that I don't like that attitude, but that is, the public attitude, very few of us who perceive us as honest people who fight here for the benefit of citizens. When it comes to this law the public's position is, some here have no home education, so they haven't learned to keep quiet while others speak, I beg you to..
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30133	Please allow Mrs. Representatives to continue her presentation. Don't interrupt her.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30134	So, when it comes to the public's position and this law, the public's view is that here seems to be something that is immoral, which is unfair, and that I'm afraid we'll find it difficult to tell the public what this is about, because all people now think that each of us will get a million kunas for a four-year term, so with our salary and it's hard to explain to people that I won't get that money, not a colleague of Bosnjakovic, but will get some other people. It's really very difficult, so explain it to people. Of course, it is even harder to explain to those who are very hard to live and who are really very large in our salaries and unattainable, let alone when it is said that someone will receive an additional million kuna in four years. I think that this is a very dangerous precedent, primarily when it comes to non-party representatives, or those representatives who have stepped out of the ranks of political parties on whose list they have come to Parliament, which could open up a very dangerous procedure in this House, a dangerous practice, which is that now there may be some exits from their clubs and political parties to ensure additional resources, because this law is now allowing it. The parties have certain laws, this law that is being amended here today by the Law on Political Parties, which primarily regulates the work of political parties, the financing of political parties is intended solely to ensure and support the development of multilaterals in Croatia, to support therefore democratisation. The parties spend money on the development of their infrastructure, and as one predecessor here said before me, and in the SDP, it is the case that MPs do not take money from their party, but, reinforced by their personal incomes, therefore, make an additional contribution for their party because we believe that strengthening our party's infrastructure is important to us and therefore we contribute to that, and that is our decision, so we do not take from our party. Similarly, money is not taken by our non-partisan colleagues who entered the SDP list as non-party individuals, and it is indeed a lie when it is claimed that these coins go to those individuals. So, these money goes to the SDP account and these money is used to develop the party and that money doesn't get any of our colleagues who are impartial, because these colleagues are working and are members of the SDP Club, so they don't come forward as non-party, they come out here as members of the SDP Club. It should be said that it is quite certain for all of us in this House that many stories and inscriptions in the Croatian press, for example, were in two or three times stories about how an independent representative in this home asked his party for money, which, therefore, asked for the money to be paid on his hands, payments were made even in some restaurants, so such articles in the newspaper certainly hurt all of us and it will be difficult to explain to the Croatian public that I did not receive this money, but in such a way, an independent representative performed immorally. And for this reason, this Law should, in my opinion, be withdrawn in some other way but not the position of those representatives who come out of their clubs and from their parties, but only that part of which may be the representatives of national minorities that are not therefore covered by certain parties. But this, in this way as well as the explanation written before the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, that, as a result, the criteria for inclusion in this decision on the granting of additional resources for a representative's office are therefore granted and, to one representative who has stepped out of his party, but also to another independent representative who has been elected on the list of one party and who has broken all ties with that party. So, theoretically, i.e. under this law and practically, I can break all ties with my party tomorrow and get so on with my salary additional funds, so in four years, it's an extremely large amount of money and indeed one dangerous precedent that I want to warn you about, and I think you should think about this solution before this solution is passed because it is anti-constitutional, illegal and opens up a big, big peach I'm afraid in political life in Croatia. Here, so that we will not all be treated together in this House as millionaires, as dishonest people, because I think in this House, the largest number of MPs earn their salary fairly and receive only what we have in law do not ask for any additional funds. Here, myself and the SDP Club will vote against this law and I think it would be good for the motioner to think again about this solution because it is a very dangerous precedent that whoever leaves his party, who thus fails his voters because he came to the list of one party, represented a particular programme of that party to get a million kuna now, gets extra funds I think let's think about it one more time and not bring this law in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30135	Thank you very much. We have one replica and one correction to an incorrect quote. First replica of Mrs. Zdenka Chuhnil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30136	Thank you very much, Vice President. I would like to remind my esteemed colleague that as many as one million kunas have been allocated to her work as an independent representative or minority representative. That the funds through the political party will be used exclusively for its political work with the electoral body. Do you think independent MPs and minority representatives have entered the House without an electoral body? Unlike those of you who have a particular electoral unit, the electoral unit is a minority of all of Croatia and perhaps this is a way for representatives of national minorities to contact and work with their electoral body and thus justify their mandate in the Assembly. And let me just look back at article 19. We all read what we want from him. We forget to read that it says that the funds are shared with the total number of MPs, which means they count with the total number of MPs. Another is that in recent times other MPs did not have who were not defined in the party the right to their political action although they are expected to do so as soon as they enter this parliament because I say they have their own electoral body, their own electoral base. Moreover, minority representatives were elected to XII. the electoral unit with the majority system and certainly have the trust of their voters.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30137	Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms Zdenka Babić-Petricevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30138	Mr. President! My friend Opacic, my mother raised me well. She sent me into the world counting on my good environment but I never let at my age affect me people like you. And it doesn't matter what was said, it matters who said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30139	What was the correction?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30140	I'm home-grown, I'm well-bred.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30141	It's not Mrs. Opacic's name. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Now it's ten minutes from now, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30142	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Here, I'll start with what I'm sorry he's not here. I don't like Luke Baby's very nice man who's at one point. ... Excuse me. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Luke Roic. There's more of you, Luke. That's a nice name, then. Mr. Luka Roic, who at one point in the enthusiasm of his speech, said what the Croatian public would think of us, so he listed how this House was called a henhouse, that it was a circus and that it was a market. After all this, I can afford a luxury when a man a little summed up this debate that there was a confident demonstration of primitiveism here and that one can talk about a moral and one moral political primitiveism. When it comes to the public, I'm going to say something now, we're not going to talk about the papers. You see, in one newspaper after two SDP MPs came forward, I won't speak their names because I never talk about people, I'm always talking about appearances, and one HNS MP in one newspaper tomorrow was entitled "Independent MPs in the Assembly will get a million kuna bonus." In another newspaper, there's "35 thousand kuna for independent representatives of salaries", and then another million kuna per MP, etc., etc. When it comes to the public, you should imagine, yesterday a daily newspaper brings more than a shameful text and believe me, I understand little about journalism because I was 27 years old in it, 21 years professionally "to an average representative with a salary of 12 thousand and 500 kuna another 520 kuna for additional expenses". Dear colleagues and colleagues, you who travel on the side here in this text say that you get on a separate life, says that you get two or two and a half thousand kuna for apartments, writes how much you pay for the directorships, and please all of them count on you to pay for it. Who's to blame? Who brought this Dom to this place where we are? I am sorry that this House is not in the right sense of the word parliament. He never was. For the first ten years, it was a voting machine. During the coalition government it was a voting machine, unfortunately it is today. I would really like this to be the centre of political events in Croatia. Now let me get back to the subject. Gentlemen, remember the Stalinist Max. She said, "Organization is everything, individual is nothing." For me, an individual is everything and individuals are a group. I'm fighting for an individual. That's what my spiritual father, the late Vlado Gotovina, taught me. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What is the difference between you who are party-organized and us who are not party-organized and me who am not party-organized? I am organized in such a way that I am organized against those who are organized. I have my family, I have my friends. I've never told anyone in my life you have to. I saw the political scene, the Croatian political scene progress. It's no better in another world, because everywhere you go, you can go if those who decide your fate get involved in what you don't say. Now let's take the turn. We have a law here in front of us that was passed in April 2001. I'd like someone to remind me of who was in power back then. I've consulted some Supreme Court judges, some Constitutional Court and county courts. And now to read the first three paragraphs of Article 19, which says, "Part of the funds for the work of political parties provided in the state budget for the next financial year is 0.056% of the current expenditure of the budget of the previous year." Paragraph 2 states: "The funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be allocated to political parties that have at least one representative."who have at least one representative. At least ten times the leaders of the coalition government have told me in the past term that because of this formulation, neither I nor the party on whose list I entered have the right to receive money. And then in Article 3, I quoted him earlier when she spoke to her colleague, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic, also going to determine the same amount of funds for each representative in the Croatian Parliament. In order not to speak further, I will now quote indeed a man whom I respect and who knows the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. This is a colleague of Mato Arlovic's otherwise vice president of the House. Recently, in one big interview with a newspaper on a journalistic issue, I literally quote everything for credibility, the quote begins: “Is it not heard behind the mention of the Constitutional Committee's decision to strike another blow against HDZ and the Government over the Zuzul case?” It's a finished quote. Col. Mato Arlović answers: “No, this is a legal void interpreted differently by HDZ and a different opposition.” It's a finished quote. My colleagues and colleagues, I will stick to what my colleague Arlovic said and I will not speak, I have the minutes here from January 13, 24th and November 3rd. I know who voted and I know what anybody was saying. I'm not going to abuse this pay phone, but the product of all this is being watched next. Two colleagues from the SDP and a colleague from the HNS on November 12th this year organise a press conference which tomorrow all newspapers, so on November 13th, transmit and say the following, quote, this is very important colleagues and colleagues agreed whether we agree or not, but let us also respect opinions that we disagree with, quote: “The price of Zuzula's survival is 8 million kuna.” It's a finished quote. Afterwards, they say, in addition, I quote: “HDZ bought independent representatives with 260 thousand kuna per year because of the foreign minister.” It's a finished quote. Is that true? The Zuzul case broke out two days after the annex was made with these two decisions. My colleagues and colleagues, please go to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System and see from 13 January we have a decision on the temporary allocation of funds for the work of political parties from 1 January to 31 March 2004. A lot of legal decisions are made on 24 March 2004, on the allocation of funds for the work of political parties in 2004 and the annex on 3 March this year, on 3 November this year. Why didn't anyone talk about all this then? All decisions have been made unanimously. A colleague from the HNS who was the hottest, who spoke 8 million kuna, I don't know how he calculated it, let him look at all the Croatian press media and see when the Zuzul case came out on the surface and when this happened. Why didn't he answer that? And now let me say one more thing! My colleagues and colleagues, you who have made a coalition in the last meeting, I would be grateful for a lifetime to explain to me why Mr Furio Radin and I, in the previous assembly of the Parliament, have not received a single lip but have repeatedly been called upon by the applicable law adopted by the then coalition authority and says, only the funds can be received by those who have at least one representative. There are six SDPs on the list, as you say, not party ones. So what difference does it make if it's the same law? And I'll tell you something else. It was here and he was saying everything and everything, and so on, and so on, I respect that in the heat of a political struggle, a man says things, and I said a little while ago corrupt instead of compromised, and one more time I'm drinking, and so I wrote, I was compromised, etc., etc. My colleagues and colleagues were best shown in the coalition government. We didn't have a political system at the time, but we had a partner system because six partners were involved and ruled Croatia. It convinced me deeply that I couldn't go to any party. I've never been a member of any party, I'm not a member of any party today, I won't be in the future, I wasn't a member of the Communist Party. But you see how it will happen, what will happen in the next local and parliamentary elections. The geneticist of all this will be drawn by independent MPs, but they also need money, as it comes to him. Personally, I can tell you, very responsiblely from this pay phone, I could have gotten a lot of money, but then I wouldn't be a free man, so I couldn't say what I'm saying. And my colleague Stazic knows very well what I went from the 95th to the end of the 99th year on Croatian television. And instead of choosing the graces they offered me, I chose to be thrown out into the street like a beast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30143	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Mr Furio Radin and one correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30144	Thank you very much, I, Mr. Vice President, have to replicate to Mr. Loncar when he says that we who come from the side have certain privileges, may have, perhaps some of them are asking for some privileges more, but I have to say and I can only speak for myself, I have to say my case, in 13, 14, of 92 that I am, that I am a representative in the Parliament, and I come from Pula where I am and I am resident when there is no Parliament session, I have never slept at the expense of the Parliament, nor have an apartment at the expense of the Parliament, nor have I understood, any of these privileges, so I wish Mr. Loncar, we had no opportunity to talk about it, to tell him that some of them might get it but, for example. Furio Radin never got it because he bought an apartment from his money here in Zagreb and then lives on his own account. But otherwise I'm replicating what Mr. Loncar said when he spoke about the resistance he has in this case, he spoke of the SDP to independent MPs, according to the independents otherwise. I am, by the way, a former member of the Croatian Communist alliance, which is, here and I would like to point out that I was a member of this Croatian Communist alliance, I know what relationship he has, has left, this type of left, better said, this type of left towards the independents, and then I am especially grateful to Mr Arlovic for interrupting that tradition, however, gave the right to independent representatives in January this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30145	Thank you very much. The answer to Mr. Ivo Lonchar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30146	Mr. Vice President, I'm glad my colleague Furio Radin was replicating what I said. I wasn't thinking about you, and I wasn't thinking about anyone in particular, I was thinking about this House, gentlemen, we're still the representatives of the people, who we are, we keep the integrity of this. But if in one newspaper they also tell you about themselves that they are democratic, professional, they must, etc., see the title, the average representative at the salary of 12 thousand and 500 kuna another 520 kuna for additional expenses. And you see what extra costs are. So, I was talking about general things. This concerns all of us. I live in Zagreb and I don't have these 5 grand and 520 kunas but I wouldn't think of telling anyone or telling my colleague Marin Jurjevic that he has no expenses until he gets to Zagreb from Split, because I know how much he spends both gas and this and that and how much he pays the toll. But it says here how much a representative costs, pays about 12.5 thousand kuna, an apartment in Zagreb, 2.5 thousand kuna, plus 500 kuna directors. Arrival to sessions, then mileage, so this, compensation for a separate life, representative's cobwebs, etc., etc. Well, that's embarrassing, but that's what we did by saying and lying that a million kunas were bought for Minister Zuzul. If we know when the Zuzul affair broke out and when all this was done. But I'm undermining it one more time. The decision of power was reached on 24 March this year unanimously. And gentlemen, I'm telling you, what can be checked, in the last session of the Parliament, I have not received a single lip, not a single lip. Only if I were to go on behalf of the Committee as I am now, it was very rare, and besides, you can check it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30147	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30148	Thank you very much. Well, I've got two quotes from my fellow Loncar. I've got to make it right. First, the latter two times, and now in response to the replica, reiterated that the Committee on the Constitution in January, in March, made a decision and established the right to those same fees and that only the annex of the decision was in November. This is simply not true because in January and March, the Committee gave its decision to the only three independent representatives in this House who were on independent or non-partisan lists and were thus elected to this Assembly. Such a decision was in January, March, and in November extended to a new category without its existence. And the second incorrect quote of fellow Lonchars is that he's an independent representative. An independent representative is the one who entered the Parliament with an independent list. He was a non-partisan candidate on the party list, and the president of the party on whose list it was to be at a constitutive session of the parliament sat down here as president of the parliamentary party.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30149	Thank you very much. You've corrected what you've been able to do, and he's reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30150	Mr. Vice President Lesar has injured Article 214. Let me explain: Comrade Lesar, you are from this area where I am elected representative, and I am proud to say so, and I will be proud to represent the end as you are. And you know very well this party in 10 years in all elections had several hundred votes. Well, then you can't talk like that at least you, a union man who's been fighting for the truth all his life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30151	Article 214 states that, as the reminder is pronounced. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30152	Dear Mr. Vice President, allow me to apologize at the beginning of this individual debate to all those MPs who have been injured or who could have been hurt by my advance on behalf of the club. Especially that part of the exit that went ad-hominem. I have a need especially to apostrophe Mr Furi Radin because he is indeed an independent representative. He, like Mr. Jenna Adam and Mak, were independent representatives, and as independent representatives were elected to this high house. However, I still don't think that their problem can be solved through the amendments to this Law. This law simply treats one another matter. He treats the way political parties work and finance, not the way they work and finance MPs whether they are party, non-party, independent or independent. If there is a need for some things to be arranged in a better way than they are now arranged, then it is possible to do so through changes to another law, not this. Law on the rights and obligations of Parliamentarians. In principle, it can be established that independent representatives who do not have a party behind them who would support their parliamentary work have the need for additional resources and for a larger flat-rate. But then it needs to be changed there so that the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure can decide how much of this increased rate should be for that type of representative. We colleagues meet with our picture in public. That picture isn't just individual, it's individual, but it's not just individual. She's a collective painting. She's a picture of all of us. Unfortunately, that picture is not particularly convenient. The public on politicians mostly has a bad opinion, especially on MPs. They think we're overpaid, that we enjoy God knows what privileges we don't deserve. This law that is now proposed will not fix that picture. He won't, he'll make it worse. The greatest damage to this reputation will be suffered by those representatives to whom this Law will apply. I fully agree with my colleague Pupovec that we represent those who have far less than us here. And this debate, no matter how anyone discusses it, will be too much for all of us. You see when the newspaper inscriptions on the possibility of amending this Law, that is, the decision of the Constitution Committee, met me people on the street and said to me, "Oh, here's a million. It'll be ready in a million bucks. I was ashamed. I was embarrassed. And it took me a while to explain to them that I wouldn't get any million. And I'm not sure they believed me. I'm not sure that most of the people who follow our work on the surface will eventually not conclude: Here they are, they've again passed some kind of law by which they share their money. And it's not small money. That's why you've been so angry with me since the start of the debate. Let's do everything because it's in our mutual interest. It's in the interest of this House to fix that picture in public. Let's not irritate that public unnecessarily. So if there's any problem, then these things don't have to be solved unprincipledly. They should not be addressed in the interest of the moment, the current political needs. And I'm afraid this is the kind of solution offered in this law for that very purpose, so I suggest that the Proposer give up on this. He'll do himself political damage. It will cause political damage to the reputation of this House, damage the reputation of the MPs to whom this applies, and ultimately, the question is if this law is challenged in the Constitutional Court as it will ever pass. If you really think there's a problem, solve it more logically. We'll discuss it. We'll work it out together. It makes more sense. Through the law through which it is dealt with. But I think in the interest of reason now, in the interest of this House's dignity, it would be in the best interest of all of us, where we are in a hurry, to withdraw this proposal, because otherwise you're going to have to bear responsibility for a bad picture in the public not only of yourself but of all the representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30153	Thank you very much. We have three replicas and two corrections. The first replica is Mr. Frano Piploic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30154	So I'm listening to this debate and I'm trying to react to it in a piece and my colleague motivated me. I haven't heard this much demagogy since I heard it during this debate. There's an old latin saying regret is a quad facial yovi, non facial bovi, which is allowed to Jupiter it's not allowed to ox. She's obviously doing well here. So why is it that people who are also involved in politics are challenged by what is allowed to be a political party? I mean, that's just what a man's asking is a question. I only find the answer in the fact that apparently people want to pet these people because there's no good reason here to be exposed to what's been said here. Therefore, if the Croatian Parliament is to be defiled and this is the way the Croatian Parliament is defiled when discussed in this way, when the thesis is presented in this way which simply does not stand. The responsibility for the Croatian Parliament for its dignity is borne by each individual. So when this one political struggle is being fought in any case, one should choose the words rather than the way in which, at the end of the fall session, we end up growing up this way before Christmas. It's clear to everyone that one mistake has to be corrected here. And calling the people and calling him here to help defend your thesis, I think it's really immoral, and I'm gonna end this. There's one thing in the people, I'll put it the other way around. What pop does when there's nothing to do. The goat crosses. And it seems to me that there are a lot of those in this House who cross.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30155	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30156	Dear fellow Pipplić, I have answered for a reply to the replica, but I have to admit that I didn't understand anything at all from what you said, so that's how I can't replicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30157	Thank you very much. Replication saturation. Mrs. Jagoda Matincevic is also a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30158	I would like to replicate to Mr. Szazic only one claim that Parliamentarians in public have a bad image. But I'm not going to refer to this subject to this bill of law, this controversy of income on money. But I'm going to say that Parliamentarians sometimes have a bad idea in public because of something called gossip, which is strange, I would actually say unworthy denunciation. Or now it's very popular to talk about listening. I'll tell you exactly and a concrete example. The other day in the papers was one of the daily newspapers was one small news of Jagoda Maja Martincevic shutting down her uncles in the Assembly room. Strange newspapers that deal with such news, I don't know who's interested. But I know exactly how the NGOs got that information. Because the truth is, I turned off my uncle in the bathroom. It's true that it wasn't a reporter who walked behind me in the bathroom, it was a colleague on my left in this room. So I'm asking you on the right now, I'm sorry. I am now asking you in all these reasons and arguments which have been presented here for and against whether you think that this is the kind of journalist's information that paints the possibility that might change the image of the presentation in the public of parliamentary representatives. I don't know who cares, I don't know why we do things like this. It doesn't occur to me personally that for anyone on my left or on the right, I walk around the Assembly in the bathrooms and count what they do there. But it bothers me at all that my name was in the paper on that matter. But I do mind if you're very, very smart and with some very important reasons here you're talking about our dignity. And from the other old lady, you have colleagues in your ranks who do such very primitive jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30159	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Mr. Nenad Skazic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30160	But dear colleague Jagoda, here we are not making the law on toilets, on chics, on smoke, on journalists, on newspapers. This law is about money. Not a small amount of money, be aware of your colleagues that the public has a negative idea about it anyway. Not with a device, but it has a negative idea. If this law is passed, I assure you that the public thinks that the public will think that you will receive a million kunas too. They'll think so. They'll think we've voted another privilege that doesn't belong to us. We'll do ourselves and this establishment political damage. We're going to bring down the reputation that collapsed anyway. Which is why. And let's not talk about smoking toilets in the toilet about smoking in the toilet, complaining to the press, getting involved in this very serious topic. Which won't stop tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Which will rescind the entire term of office until the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30161	Thank you very much. We have another replica of Mr Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30162	Thank you very much. I answer to that part of Mr. Stazic's speech where he's in one tone that's a little pathetic... answers can tell certain truths, talks about the privileges and occurring how all those we represent live worse than us. That's true. But I have a memory for you, not because I have a special memory, but because I've been sitting in this House for a long time, which brings me back to time when I was part of the opposition. Well, then I was part of the opposition's information. I remember, for example. That we were 92, and my colleague Bebic certainly remembers, all those who were then, our salary killed 750 euros today. After that, by our consent, I mean by our consent as an opposition and by the consent of the SDP, 95, 96, she went on double no one had to say anything. That eye at a thousand and 200, 300 euros. No one had anything to say. And that was a little bit more. Because in 89, 99, parody, that salary then went to practically the salary we have today a little less. And then also.../The speaker shut down/... she had nothing to say. So I would only pray that when it comes to being compassionate to those who have less than us to remember and how we acted when our wages were raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30163	Time has passed for replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30164	I'm sorry, that's right. And I repeat my proposal once more and then I'm done. My proposal is next. Let the parties give up funding, let them have no money from the budget, let them have money from their many memberships as they have unions, and then at that moment we'll all be the same, we have to be the same, or when we have funding, or when we don't, and that's my proposal, and... to write about this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30165	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30166	Well, esteemed colleague Radin, I really don't know how this would move the salary of a representative at the time of the first HDZ administration and how many times it has been and how increased. All I know is it's in the last term, so in the Parliament's last session we were in it together, that pay cut by 40%. It's down 40%, and it seems to me that the public impression was as if it's been increased by 40%. That's how it was received in public, how many times we've been and how we've discussed that salary here. What a public impression this move will create, I can't imagine, but a favourable one certainly doesn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30167	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First, Mr. Representative Ivo Lonchar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30168	Mr. Vice President, Col. Stazic said this law will not improve the picture of us but will make it worse, then be they, thoughts of MPs, independent or independent have no right to money. I'm going to deny it here in this 24th March decision that was made unanimously, your foreigner, because you've talked about millions before, it's going to get 9 million and 66,000 rabbits every year, and that's going to be four years from now 36 million and a little bit more. Since you're talking about dignity, since you're talking about dignity, so let me just give you an example of our president who is now a citizen and has come to the list as a citizen president, he is now a citizen president and still enjoys your support, so now I don't know how he's going to get out of the state budget of this money, whether from your parties or from the budget. That would be nice if you could explain it to us. And one more thing. It would be good for you to say what your party is doing with your millions and who will cover your expenses when you go on your journeys? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30169	Thank you very much. Deminutives are actually easing things, I see. It's good. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30170	Mr. Vice President, I will correct two incorrect allegations. First of all, fellow Stazic said he would not get his million. So he'll get his million at the expense of his party, check it out on your party's account. You'll get your million and then don't argue with those who deserve the same cost of the same money. Another incorrect allegation is that the bill will bring political damage to parliament's reputation. No, I don't. Political damage to Parliament's reputation has been done by your colleagues and colleagues who maliciously and incorrectly interpreted what these decisions are trying to do and it is very clear and reasoned by Mr Loncar, those articles that were in the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30171	Thank you very much. We're done with the corrections. It is now up to Mr. Representative and Vice President Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30172	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I remain with one of my already stated claims in an interview, that this is a legal gap if it is to ensure the financing of a single representative for the development of parliamentary democracy or for the development and co-operation of MPs with its electoral base, i.e. for citizens. However, the question arises which law fills the legal gap. I personally believe that it is not possible to fill in the Law on the Completion of the Law on Political Parties or, at all, the Law on Political Parties, because it is subject to the regulation of the Law on Political Parties, secondly, and quite justifiable. What's the first reason? First, according to our Constitution, multilateralism is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order, and at the same time it is clear to everyone, especially after World War II, when a multi-party democracy is more developed and when the position of parties in the system begins to be legal, that in such a situation the parties intercede with the achievement of the interests and objectives of the holders of sovereigns, i.e. the people to their representatives in parliamentary, or representative bodies of the legislative authority. Second, according to our Constitution, Article 6 of the Law regulates the position and financing of political parties. Thirdly, the Law on Political Parties itself explicitly states: "The political parties, with their free establishment, are the expressions of the democratic multilateral system as the highest values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. The legal position, conditions and methods of procedure for the establishment, registration, termination and financing of political parties are governed by this law." Among other things, criteria have been adopted to finance political parties on a flat-rate basis, and in the second part, the criteria and degree of evaluation for the financing of political parties shall be their representatives elected to Parliament, i.e. the representative body of the units of local and regional self-government, since the provisions of Article 19 of the Law are applied adequately to those bodies. In fact, the question is what is the purpose of the law. So the purpose of the law is in something else, to ensure that political parties from an independent source are financed so that political parties do not come into a dependent position because of their material financial poverty and inability to perform their political function in the social community. Therefore, political parties from the budget should be financed so that they do not enter into pre-election, electoral conditions in their political action for sources of donations and other systems of known things that can actually enable tomorrow a dependent position in the behaviour of the authorities or the most responsible functions when the parties are in a position to exercise power. And that is why this is the subject that needs to be left behind and tied to political parties, and therefore the Law on Political Parties has made it quite clear in Article 19 that political parties are financed, that the criterion of evaluation for the financing of political parties is individual representatives and the number of MPs, its representatives. He is not talking about the number of members of the party but from its representatives who were elected from the political party's list and it was quite normal practice so far that when the party's representative left the party that the party was no longer able to get the money or could the representative as an independent agent get the money. There's also something else to point out. The fact is, we can discuss the financing of MPs and their work, but let's not forget that we have it even legally. The second question is whether, by its scope and by the content of the financial resources, it is enough for the work of a single representative, it is a second question. But the fact is that we have the Law on the Rights of Representatives, the fact that there are a whole series of decisions by the competent working body of the Committee on Selection, the appointment and administrative affairs of this Croatian Parliament which has arranged the question of the co-operation which is actually intended to work on the field of representatives, which has regulated the question of financing the accommodation of representatives coming from the field, which has arranged the financing of the material costs etc. Whether that is enough or not, we can talk about it, but we cannot regulate this law by my deep conviction, if we want to provide additional resources from the budget to strengthen the commitment of elected MPs to the electoral base, or to their electoral body. We can accept something that exists in the world in Germany, Sweden and many other countries where it is besides financing parties, the funding and work of individual representatives and it has actually in addition to its salaries and material costs it receives and an additional budget to carry out the activity of representatives and then is financed not only accommodation, terrain, etc. but even advisers who carry out their duties and in its preparation for the performance of the work, etc. This can be accepted but cannot be financed from the Law on the financing of political parties, i.e. the Law on political parties. And I personally think that this proposal for a law supplementing the Political Party Act is a failure and that it should or should be withdrawn, I will personally be against it because there's no point in this sort of thing, because it's just not two going together, it just doesn't go together. I'm not going into that question whether or not we're going to, tomorrow we're going to get to the bottom of how and in what way if the issue of financing the work of an individual agent opens up. Now here comes the particular issue that needs to be mentioned in particular and set out for such relations for the development of parliamentary democracy, for relations with the electoral base, the electoral body needs additional funding. So far, it's mostly party-funded for its members. But, in addition, the basic intensity of the Constitution is the development of a multilateral democracy, and that is why it is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order in Article 3. We must therefore be aware that the Constitution is primarily financing, and if I may intensify and extend the multi-party system rather than independent representatives and individuals, of course, not prohibiting them. In particular, it cannot be prohibited when it comes to a specific type of independent MPs who are not independent representatives, but are representatives of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. And precisely because they are representatives of national minorities under one special law, it's called the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and have national minorities certain means of development, I don't know culture and every other democracy. And in such a segment I can... Of course I don't think it's enough for this kind of work, you can, because it's never enough. The second question is that all of this should be put into a general dimension which is equally important, it is a question of possibilities at the moment of the Republic of Croatia and its economy so that it can finance all these necessary activities and representatives and political parties and, of course, representatives of national minorities. Of course, in this context we need to keep a few more accounts, we cannot rise up absolutely in the amounts and in the sources of these funds without taking into account the general position of the average citizen of the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia and the opportunities of society and the social community. And in such a situation, I must be quite clear and precise. You know some of the questions that have been raised here, which, for example, my colleague Loncar mentioned as ex, for the past term. The fact is. The party was winning, the HSS was getting money and based on you as a representative while you were at the club, or when you were a member of the council. The moment you left the party, the club, you did become an independent representative, but no longer the party could count you, because you weren't with her, nor could you get because you weren't a party. And that's the problem. So far, you have also won in January and in the third month because you were a member who was elected from the party list and was given a party. As you've arranged your relationship with your party, I will not enter that part at all. Now it happened in the fall that a political position should be taken to resolve the issue of independent representatives and the financing of their political work on the ground, etc. I don't think it should be solved just by them. If it is to be settled then it should be settled through the Law on the Rights of Representatives and should be seen what kind of relationship it is. It is likely that independent MPs should certainly be provided with more certainty than is necessary for those who are related to their parties and party membership for the last reason because they have, however, and invest much more as party people in their parties for the development of the infrastructure party. But also to carry out certain activities of political action with the field, they have far greater opportunities, given that their parties are behind them right now. Therefore, we need to speak clearly and openly of all this. And that's why I repeat, I'm still standing on it and on it. If this issue is to be settled, this will say the issue of funding independent MPs who are not biased but are independent because they are not even elected from the party list. This issue can be opened but in the current legal system, it is a legal void and this legal gap should eventually be filled in and discussed through the amendment of the Law on the Rights of Parliamentary Representatives, not the Law on Political Parties. Because the Law on Political Parties on the subject of its content, in its scope, is intended for a completely different political objective, which is ultimately prescribed by the Constitution and which is thus contained and quite different from those. And I think it would be completely wrong for this amendment, i.e. the supplement, excuse me, to accept the law in this segment and in this form as it was offered because it would be actually very dangerous for another reason. A serious issue of constitutional legal nature is being raised. We, the Law on Political Parties, need to ensure constitutional value, the development of the constitutional value of multilateral democracy, or multilateral, multiparty system rather than create political conditions that could devalue it. It is clear, if the criteria for individual funding are put in place per agent and the belonging of funds per political worker that it will detimise people to stay in political parties. That's actually disabling the constitutional norm of multilateral democracy. That is why this cannot be the subject of this law, and therefore it must be subject to the second law and it must then be discussed and sat down and debated about this legal void but in a completely different way and without any need to bring in specific emotional matters. I think we should sit here and discuss it. There are such examples in the world. It is necessary to see whether we have achieved such a material financial opportunity, such democratic maturity and such a legal need that we can debate that the Law on the Rights of Representatives opens the issue of funding and working with the field and, of course, to prepare for the exercise of representation with cooperation and with the assistance of their parties in Parliament, and especially those who do not have party support for themselves because they are not elected from party places or belong to individual parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30173	Thank you very much. The first is the correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Ivo Lonchar, not the replica of Mr. Ivo Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30174	I chose the replica only because my colleague Mato Arlovic can answer me because I will ask more questions through this replica. But here I am colleague Arlovic very grateful. Now I've got one piece of information I've been waiting for for five years. Now he said he was taking HSS money on me for a while. I didn't know about it, and they kept denying it to me. Therefore, I am also interested that my colleague Arlovic, whom I highly respect as a legal expert, in particular as a medist for the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the political system, would explain to me the following in Article 19 of the existing law. I'll read the whole paragraph 2. The funds referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be allocated to political parties that I stress, having at least one representative in the Croatian Parliament. Is it at least one representative as I have heard all the time today in a debate by the SDP that they are their non-party representatives? And I was a non-partisan agent, so I didn't get any lip, no lip was given to my colleague Furio Radin, because it's always been said, "Come into the party, you'll get the money, if you're not in the party, you can't get the money." I don't know what's changed and the law is the same from that mandate to this. I still have to say, I didn't receive 260,000 kuna for the pre-election promotion in last year's election. I've never used an official car, I've never used a train, a boat, a bus, one plane to Split, and that's when we officially went to one funeral, a cell phone always own, a phone, etc., travels all organized. But the focus is on my colleague Mato Arlovic, I will be very grateful to him for explaining item 2 which has been explained to me for four years in Article 19. The law on political parties adopted on 20 April 2001. Thank you very much and thank you in advance, colleague Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30175	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr. Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30176	Dear colleague Lonchar. The moment you stepped out of the HSS, or... From the club, I'm sorry from the HSS Club... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You didn't, well, at the beginning of 2000, you were elected on the HSS list, you were at the HSS Club, and until you publicly stepped out of that party you had the right to receive money as well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When you stepped forward, you could no longer win you or the party won, so was the rule in the previous assembly. Secondly, I interpret such a rule and now, in this article, the provision of the 19th simple reason, because it states, the criteria per individual agent are determined by means, but the funds are written to the political party. Fellow lawyers, especially those who have read older textbooks, and especially the script, such as Chad Rajačić, will remember the concept of belonging and adoption. And here you use not the notion of adopting an economic, but the concept of belonging in terms of... which the party acquires in such a situation, and not an individual and cannot afford the means to you, which is why I interpret it so, and that is why I said it was a legal void, both in this Law and in the Law on the Rights of Representatives. And the second question is, what I don't think is that this Law, for the reasons I've said constitutionally legal nature, is that it can't be solved, but it needs to be settled by a special law, if it's wanted. And that's the Law on the Rights of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30177	Thank you very much. Replica Mr Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30178	My colleague Mato Arlović, I would only ask that you press me, let him finish, because he has to make a phone call, and yet I answer. Comrade Mato Arlović, I would only ask you to direct me to this, on which party to come the funds belonging to me as an independent representative, elected as an independent representative and who have the same rights and the same duties as you? So these money belongs to the clients. Tell me, please, when will you conclude yourself, which party should my money come to? I'd tell you one other thing. You see the left parties, and I choose myself historically to the left. The left parties, for example, dealt with this in different ways. The Communist Party of Italy has now given up its salary in the Italian Parliament to the level of wages of a metal worker. So they were getting paid by a metal worker, and the rest went to strangers. Now they've changed in a way they've been bourgeoising, so now you're receiving everything that can certainly be received as a party and as individuals. But then I would advise you if you didn't want anyone to go to you, that no one escapes your party, becoming independent representatives, so give a deal to the party, half the money go to the party, but the other half go to you in a way that you can spend as representatives in your constituency. Think about it, why would everything go according to democratic centralised? Let something be left to you as representatives who do the same thing on their own and act on the ground, here's another suggestion. So either you pay practically strangers all the time, and you stay metal workers. Or on the other hand, that the party gives you a certain portion of the money as part of the modern time of today's left. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30179	Answer to the replica Mr. Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30180	I understand fellow Furia Radin that he, as an independent representative, would love to regulate political relations and democratic relations within a political party. Because it's always been the wish of quasi intellectuals trying to edit the structure of individual organizations from the outside. And in such a situation, it is clear to me, because they do not have the courage to enter that organization or similar organization themselves to show their democracy and their relations, and it is easier sometimes to be independent and to carry out certain tasks such as often done through their office or through a brother’s publishing company. No, well, about that later. Secondly, I'm very interested in you explaining to me your esteemed colleague, where did you read in the Political Party Act that the MP belonged to the money? Nowhere. The representative also measured the criteria. It says in paragraph 2, that they are deployed to political parties, not to a representative, but to a representative. Then they belong to a political party, not a representative. And there's a place where a representative has the right to certain funds for his political work. It is the Law on the Rights of Representatives and on the basis of the special decision of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. its Board on Administrative Affairs, Selection and Appointation, it has been found to be 17, it seems to me to be 10 journals for political work on the ground which each representative receives, and again, I do not think it is enough, for people who are not party members, who are independent if they want it, it is a legal void, only then that law should be resolved, and not the Law on political parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30181	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr Furio Radin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30182	Article 214th, Mr Vice President. Mr. Arlovic called me a quasi intellectual, I'd like to tell him if I wasn't a quasi intellectual, but I'm not an intellectual. Because if someone in politics is an intellectual, or a quasi intellectual, he can only petrify relationships. I deal with interests, and I don't deal with criticizing everything that's in place. So I'm not an intellectual, nor a quasi intellectual, but I'm not an intellectual and politician like all of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30183	Also a violation of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Mato Arlović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30184	It's not a 214 injury. 214 is talking about penalties, but it is about the violation of Article 209 that the colleague reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and in fact he abused that institute and spoke of something quite different. And by the way, the word quasi means something other than what a colleague translated.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30185	The question seems to be how we're going to address each other. Whatever representative requests while I chair him to be named as Mr. Letica, I orderly title him... and these others do not, because they did not seek him, and when they ask for them as well. So the question of titleing might be to cut it short to that Mr. Representative, without listing the titles except in Mr. Letica's case, he specifically requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have Mr. Bozidar Pankretic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30186	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So allow me a few sentences, too, about this proposal, I'll be as short as I think I am the last speaker in this part. I think it's said enough so far, I'm not a lawyer to be able to go into some detailed matter about it, but I'm going to say principled thinking. And in principle, it certainly states that it is impossible for someone to get some money that is directly intended for the parties if a party has run for office. And that's a very firm rule, and I don't think anyone can dispute it in any way, whether it's big, small parties, how much a party has helped or not, I think it's a choice for all of us when we're running in a certain way. I am, of course, exempt here from those who are independent advocates, who have run like such. I think there is certainly some option to be taken into account, but of course such advocates who collect signatures that do their campaign in this way should find some possibility to be given in a certain way as to whether, in this case, they are chosen to be able to obtain a certain portion of the funds. I think it's a proposal that needs to be considered in detail, seen in that section and certainly proposed for a certain future. I don't think it's very good at this sort of thing I'd say now I'm already breaking over my knee, no matter what some things are made, but a detailed thing to prepare before the next election, before the parliamentary elections and define. An independent representative who collects signatures with as many and as many thousands as it already goes, or with representatives of national minorities all in that part, he will get a certain portion if he is elected, the parties cadet and when someone is running on their list of money belongs to them. Everything else is I'd say one free I'll call it an acrobatic which, of course, we can be sure of some articles, some things, but I think we all agree on that. They're not standing, and I think we need to accept it and get out of this solution. I will not be rude but I will appeal here, I think that something that would go this way is not good and if the ruling party here together with its coalition partners so decides I think they are doing definitely to their own harm because they are not doing something that would be useful for the development of the overall democracy in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30187	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the final Mr. Drazen Bosnjakovic, president of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30188	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! First, I want to thank everyone for the debate. Unfortunately, she was quite fierce and often crossed over and those limits seem to me to be some tolerances that would be desirable for them to be in this House of Commons. After all this debate, we were unable to bring our opinions closer. This law obviously won't be passed by consensus which I personally feel very sorry for but I repeat it once more. The difference is only in two concepts. One concept advocates only that the funds can only be obtained by parties, only political parties for members who are in parliament. The second concept proposed by this law and I will say that we are only adding to Article 19, paragraph 3, to the claim that the right to funds for their political work also has independent representatives and representatives of national minorities. That's the difference between us. Another difference that also respected counterpart Arlovic and other colleagues said that this could not be regulated by this law but by another law, I believe it is possible because it is precisely that Article 3 of Article 19, which gives us the right to do so because if we interpret it, we see that we are directly attached to that paragraph 3 where we cannot actually allocate those resources to those independents. For the use of these paragraphs 6 and 7 will not be possible when members of the parties only sit in this House. So, by this law we have not taken away any foreigner any means, we have not endangered the multi-party, we are not contrary to the Constitution. I think this is a very correct law and I am very sorry that there have been such difficult words, difficult discussions. It's ugly, I have to say, to hear that it would be best if we all called independence, took the money and left. I think it's a very ugly message and everything we said was our picture in public that the public has about us pretty bad. This is exactly what will lead to the fact that the picture of us is even worse than it is, and the picture of us is not that some MP is less bad and the other one is more than the picture of us is the same as the total. And that's why I think that in this House, it should absolutely be more tolerance and more respect for different opinions, because if we respect each other then the public will respect us and I think that then the debate in this House will be better quality. And what I must finally say very often was the word shame, corruption, and such things used here. I have to say, I'm going to vote for this bill, of course, and we're also promoters and I have to say that I won't be ashamed to vote for this law at all. And you know why? Because I would be ashamed tomorrow in front of the voters of Mr Furi Radin and the other representatives of national minorities and other independent representatives, I would be ashamed in front of their voters if my party for me were to receive funds from the state budget for political work and that the funds from that same budget that they are also filling as mine that they cannot get for their political work and that we are not equal. Then I'd be ashamed. And this law is exactly what we're going to erase, and we're going to make our terms and our terms as party members and theirs that aren't equal to us. And that's why I'm going to give a voice for this law, and there's absolutely nothing to be ashamed of and all of you to support it. Thank you very much, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30189	I would like to thank the applicant's representative. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to - Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with the guarantees issued by the creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. Rijeka The Proposer of the Decision is the Investigative Commission. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When making this decision, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. Mr. Representative Anto Djapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30191	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with Article 84 of the basic Regulation, The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 129a in conjunction with Article 177 thereof. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament Research Commission for the determination of facts in connection with the issued state guarantees of creditors of the private company Brodogradište "Viktor Lenac" d.d. Rijeka submitted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with the state guarantees issued by the creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 2 and 3. The law on investigating committees which are prescribed the possibility of establishing investigative committees in matters of public interest and the extension of the time limit within which the commission is obliged to carry out its task. Since the Croatian Parliament, at its 10th session held on 1 October of this year, adopted a Decision on the establishment of this Commission of Investigation, where the decision was prescribed, worth the decision that the commission should be completed with its work no later than three months from the date on which it was established. Given the extent of the documentation received so far and the need for financial and legal expertise, the witness statement that will take place after receiving all the documentation, the committee reached a unanimous conclusion at its 3rd session on 26 November this year, which decided to propose to the Commission a Decision amending the Commission's decision to establish a fact-finding committee in connection with the state guarantees issued by the creditors of the private company "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River. The law on investigation committees in Article 3(4) provides that the time limit within which the investigation committee is to carry out its task cannot be shorter than two months or longer than six months from the date of establishment of the investigation committee. In connection with this investigation committee, it proposes to extend the deadline for the task by another three months so that the commission can successfully carry out its task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30192	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Representative! ... On behalf of the club? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30193	The HDZ Club fully supports the need to extend the investigation committee's deadline by proposing that it be a month and a half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30194	I'm opening a debate. No one answered on behalf of the clubs. ... We're moving on to an individual debate. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The first was Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr. Joseph Leco. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Mr Ante Djapic's proposal has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30195	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, I have an understanding for this proposal that my colleague Jarnjak made, however, we have a decision from the Commission. We can accept this 1.5 month, not to waste any time, and at the Committee's session, we'll see if that's enough or we'll ask for more of those, another 1.5 months that we have options. So, I think we can accept this as, so maybe we'll be done in a month and a half, we'll make sure it's over. Thank you very much. It would be good if you submitted an amendment to this decision. Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30196	Until the decision is made, an amendment will be submitted in accordance with what Mr. Jarnjak said on behalf of the club. There are no further reports. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide once the conditions are met. And the proposed amendment please, hello, amendment promoter, Mr. Jarnjak, please submit the amendments in writing, correct. I'm closing the debate. He'll make up his mind, I said, when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30197	Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in connection with the guarantees issued by the creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. River. The debate is closed. ... I know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Pupovac, slowly please. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Okay. We'll check it out. We'll do it again. All right. We'll go back to that vote. Please engage. Please vote. Score. 75 votes in, 10 abstentions. It's exactly the same as last time we voted. We are going back to the vote on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the Research Commission for the Determination of Facts in relation to the guarantees issued by the creditors of the private company Shipyard "Viktor Lenac" d.d. The river, where the debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I'd like a representative of the proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30199	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30200	Amendment accepted. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please engage. Please vote. Mr. Chief, please take your place. You couldn't vote before I said vote. ... You can't vote before. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can see but you can't and please stick to the line. Representative Boras, please vote. Now you've voted yes. ... Score. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find that, unanimously with 83 votes for the decision to amend the Decision establishing the Investigation Commission in the text, it is proposed by the Proposer together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30201	We move to - Proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 23 in conjunction with Article 1. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 91/92. The draft act was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You received the motion for an act at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to take the floor? Yeah. President of the Legislative Committee. Mr. Florian Boras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30202	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At today's session, the Legislative Committee addressed a proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 23. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 91/91 and proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. First. At the 31st session held on 8 December 2004, the Croatian Parliament Legislative Committee discussed the proposal for a credible interpretation of Article 23. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 91/92, which I said was filed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in an act of 2 December this year. The Legislative Committee assesses the need to consider the doubts of the different interpretations of Article 23. The Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia in order to assess the basis for giving a credible interpretation. The Legislative Committee also adopted the opinion of the home, home, working body, i.e. The Committee on Justice who also held a meeting and delivered an opinion to the Committee on Law. Following the discussion, the Committee assessed that there were grounds for providing a credible interpretation, Article 23 and in conjunction with Article 1. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a Decision proposing to give the Croatian Parliament a verifiable interpretation of Article 23 in conjunction with Article 1. The Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia is also an integral part of this Report. I will now fully read you the text of the proposal for credible interpretation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 116(2) here is the correction in the Report that you received in article 22, however, it was corrected, the error of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was supported. The Croatian Parliament at the session, I suppose today has brought that the next credible interpretation therefore, and this part that makes the text decision is also a technical error in the transcription. So it gives the next credible interpretation. For the EEA Joint Committee Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” 91/92. In the doubt of criminal legal protection of assets, Article 23 Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 91/92 amending Article 106. Criminal law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 25/77, 50/78, 25/84, 52/87, 43/89, 9/91, 33/92, 39/92. and 77/92. In accordance with Article 1(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of this Regulation. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia, “National Journal” No 91/92. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European The criminal law of the Republic of Croatia shall be given the criminal legal protection of social property and property of shareholders, companies with limited liability, state property, units of local and regional (regional) self-government and other legal persons. Recital: On the basis of Article 1 Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” No 91/92. where the concept of social property is established, it is apparent that social property is considered to be all social property assets, funds to meet common general needs, as well as natural wealth and goods in general use. Furthermore, under that provision social property, assets entrusted to a state body, company or other social or legal person are considered or are found on some legal basis. In accordance with this, it is also necessary to interpret the provision of Article 106. The criminal law of the Republic of Croatia and in that part did not require Article 23. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia “National Journal” 91/92. to include an amendment and supplementation of the concept of social property. Certain regulations in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia continue to contain, in this sense, the concept of property, i.e. social property transferred to a state body or to another legal person such as the Law on the Conversion of Social Enterprises and the Law on Privatisation. This Decision will be published in the “National Journal” together with an explanation. Mr. President, if there are questions in the debate on the proposal for this Decision, uncertainty or openness or otherwise the need to report back to the word, I will do so after the presentation of respected colleagues and, if not, I will be satisfied with this opening statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30203	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. They'll decide when the conditions are met. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, it's now a break until 20 o'clock when there's going to be a vote, so I'm asking you to be exact so we can finish up as soon as possible and take a well-deserved vacation. Thank you very much. 20 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30204	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law amending the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I'm voting on a credible interpretation. Please engage. Please vote. Score. I find that with 75 votes for, 10 abstentions, a credible interpretation of the article of the Penal Code has been proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30205	Be kind enough to repeat and see who voted for the final proposal and who was in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30206	Who voted for the last proposal?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30207	So is who's in the hall. ... [[The speaker is not enabled, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30208	You're asking to determine who voted for a credible interpretation of Article 23, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-12-08-0.u30209	Mr. Chehok isn't in the hall. His key is. If the key itself can vote, explain it to us. Mr. Chehok warned us at an extended Bureau meeting that it was possible for someone to take someone's key and vote for it. I'm afraid that just happened. I'm asking you to establish that.
