ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20902	Mr. President, Madam Vice President, the honorable secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In the opening part in front of the promoter, I will say a few reasons why we went with this proposal of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, and after me Mr. Pero Kovacevic will talk about the legal content and the form of the bill itself. This is the third attempt by the Croatian Party to adopt the Law establishing the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. I would like to remind, for the chronology of the events, that in 98 C.E., we went the first time with a bill of this kind or similar law. Unfortunately, despite the famous, in Croatia known practices to always praise the intensity, to praise ideas etc. So the government will make promises as much as possible and more quality, so our attempt failed at the very beginnings after the debate in the first reading. The government's bill of law has never appeared which will later prove very harmful to the situation in which Croatia has found itself in connection with some of the processes before the Hague tribunal. We also tried the second time in 2001 or 2000 also with something amended by the same law, when also with lots of nice words and support of our bill ended up the same with the story that the government will prepare a more quality bill proposal, more comprehensively, in the end there was nothing and here we are now in a situation where there seems to be a real chance that this idea that we are pushing practically here for six years, so the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War still lives in one interesting way. Namely, the Government of the Republic, the Croatian Government also gave its proposal for a law with the same name, with a very similar, almost identical content, which was the result of which I would have said even a consultation between the authors of our bill with, above all, the Ministry of Minister Biskupić, where it was agreed and agreed that the Government would support with small, some minimal changes of more non-motive and stylish nature, the proposal of the law. But the government showed up with its bill, I don't know why, if that's what it is, I'd say again practice, according to which anything that comes from the lines of opposition of these proposals, if it can be good, but better when the ruling majority gives its proposal to the law, because when you compare these two laws to the Government and the HSP, there's practically no significant difference in content, so I'd say even in form. But about that, by that. I hope that our bill will also pass into a second reading and then possibly a second reading that together with the Government and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Rights makes a single bill that would finally be said, in a third attempt and there is a chance that it will be adopted and finally and live. So why have we been trying to get through this law in the Croatian Parliament for years? The reason is more than clear, because this is one public institution, so the Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War is the insatiable need of today's Croatian moment. If we had adopted such a bill and established such an institution in 98 years, then the Croatian position in relations with The Hague and the position of our Hague indictees would have been much better or much better. We do not pass such a bill, I hope that we will adopt it, either this or the Government, whether we will see it together, because we should convince ourselves here of the political parties and MPs that took place in Croatia in the 1990s, rather than with strong arguments, documentation, all of those materials that were related to the project of the creation of the Croatian state, the war that we have imposed on us, which we have received, and I would say even the roles of Croatia in the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, so that we can finally demonstrate what happened at the premises of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. We are aware of the fact that in the indictments of The Hague tribunal against General Gotovina, Bobetka, Cermak, Praljko, Petkovic and others, Croatia was declared to be a country created by crime, and the late President Tudjman, along with the political and military summit, attributed the legal fiction of the joint criminal enterprise of politicians and military commanders. According to the crime, the political and military leadership of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders, as well as those who defended Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity, became criminals, war criminals, etc. etc. We, with the establishment of such a public institution of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, reject all these facts. We are helping those who are in The Hague we are less familiar with the general fact that after "Storm" that the government has had one major humanitarian aid to the remaining Serbs in the former Krajina and over the winter that they do not freeze to be without minimal food products is not said almost never in all these relations with the attacks on the Homeland War the fact that Croatia took care of half a million Bosniaks in Croatia at the time of the war, however, it is known, however, there is no paper, no testimony, there is no video of anything that can practically collapse and disprove all those accusations that try to change the character of the Homeland War, and the role of this centre is there from the first-class importance. It is the responsibility of the current Croatian policy towards all those who created Croatia, so it would be in one place,... pulling parallels to be like Hrvatski..., I don't think that it must, we have its specificity, the Croatian war is something that is specific to other wars as each war carries its own specialities, and in this fact it is aware that a special war, intelligence, media and every other war that has been happening in these areas, that the formation of one of these centers will enable and help us above all to defend ourselves more in a more high-quality and competent manner what was done in the 1990s in Croatia and I would also say first of all, in this ad hoc situation could especially help our arrests and indictees, who in the Hague or outside of it already expect the trial on charges that are more than monstrousive, but I would not say so much about them now. Therefore, we expect that through this parliamentary debate we expect the support of such a centre that will systematically collect all that documentation, we have one situation very abnormal that part of our arresters in The Hague must collect data themselves, collect materials themselves, some have to buy, and in order to buy them first they have to get money and the whole series has a situation that is not worthy of Croatian policy. Therefore, I hope and believe that finally in the third happiness, it is said, in the third attempt of this proposal, this bill will receive support in the Croatian Assembly and we will very quickly and very soon establish a Croatian Memorial documentation centre which will be able to collect enough data and arguments in the Hague trials that will be of great benefit to our Croatian prisoners in.... Therefore, I hope that there will be enough hearing from the biggest club, the ruling club, which through its Government majority has its proposed law that both legislative proposals will go into second reading so that the debate that will then develop here today in the Croatian Parliament can make a single legislative proposal but as soon as it does not wait long, because what is also Vladin and our proposal is almost identical and very good quality so that we can move as soon as possible into the realisation of this law so that we can already do what has been done for years, unfortunately it is not for what reasons I do not know, because it has never been at least a declarative lack of political will to do so but there were obviously some important jobs "important" of this I would say today that there are a little more important jobs when it comes to work on the work of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President, thank you, I'd like you to give Mr. Kovacevic a word for the content of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20903	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Pero Kovacevic on behalf of the promoter as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20904	Dear Mr. President, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As Mr Djapic said, it is high time for Croatia to start promoting the truth about the Homeland War in both the country and the world. In order for Croatia to systematically promote the truth about the Homeland War and not allow history to falsify Savo Strbac and the Hague Tribunal, we must establish this Memorial-documentation centre in haste. Namely, what is the situation with the registrar and archive material that was created in the Homeland War will best bear witness to the facts when our friends generals who were in front of the Hague tribunal who cried that they could not obtain any documentation, and they know that there is, have been no use for them by their work. When the cacaths helped them then they brought them to the rooms where it was scattered, unsettled, and say, "Come on, get on with it." That's what's there for you. And what is the situation we know is who we were in that system. One section is located at the Ministry of Defence at the Military Museum, one part is in the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces, the other part is in the Ministry of Interior, the third part is in the Ministry of the Interior, the fourth and fifth parts are located in intelligence agencies, and one part is located and we know what is the fate and is in the Office of the President. What made this even worse is that it weighs part in private collections, and it cannot be approached systematically by fixing such documentation. In order for this to happen systematically, it must be established under haste, because we must promote the truth about the Homeland War for all who gave and died for this country, because of our children, our grandchildren, because no one will forgive us. And what the situation is now, the situation is still the same, I'm telling you the same thing Mr. Djapic said, many of our people who were in different stages before the Hague Prosecutor's Office whether in a phase of investigation or already indictees had to buy on the black market documentation that was in favor of them and the state did nothing, but it did nothing, and that's exactly why we decided to start with the excavating of registration and archive materials must go according to collections, get everything collected in one place, it's easy to figure out how it ended in private collections. There are manual records, you know what the subject is, which is the file, which is class, and it's easy to determine where it is. We know that let's say the documentation that was seized in "Storm" is in private hands, which says everything on the side of so-called "Storm." the money of the countries they created, it's in private, and even those privates at the Ministry want to sell such a single building. So the situation is more than alarming and now I'm just going to say for a moment, Mr. President said nicely it was two 90% identical proposals. How did that happen? On 19 April this year, the HSP Club referred to the procedure of the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, at the end of May Minister Biskupić came in asking the government to accept our proposal in the first reading and to agree immediately on the Final Proposal. And I went straight to the Ministry we held a meeting there was a secretary of state from the Ministry, Croatian defenders, pardoned defenders, Croatia always remains, so I have to speak because I can't accept it, the defender and we agreed together there were two doubts, and this is the doubt that this state institution should be a specialized form within the state archive, we agreed that we didn't know whether there was that possibility. And second, that it has a scientifically significant character, and look, they send me one. 6. Do I agree with what we agreed on? I said I agree now. That's what the government is now referring to in the procedure. Here, that's what happened, if we needed it, we didn't need it. What we needed, the Prime Minister said nicely when we talked about The Hague. So let's put it on the agenda right now, figure it out. But look at this from April 19th. Since April 19th. How, and it's still waiting when we'll get another reading if we don't react quickly. It's to expect us to really go together. I thank all the committees that supported our bill and government, these are the two same bill proposals, and we are going to be quick to come up with this final proposal. And we could have made that this was already the final proposal we agreed on. And we wouldn't waste any time. And people, their lives are at stake, the truth of the Homeland War is at stake. Well, we can't treat these things like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20905	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Željko Krapljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20906	I will correct the incorrect allegations of my colleagues, Kovacevic. It is not true that the Croatian government is not taking care of the generals, it is taking care of them, not only of their families, but also of their families, and it is making every effort, just as this team of generals has returned, and it is struggling to return these two generals and we are confident that it will be soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20907	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20908	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected Vice-President of the Croatian Government, I will correct the incorrect quote of my colleagues Djapic and also the incorrect quote of my colleagues, Kovacevic. In fact, they claimed that there were no significant differences between these two bill proposals, I believe there are them and they are described in Article 2. So the basic difference between these two bill proposals is in the form of establishment, in the form of the establishment of a centre and this means that this is a special, with a public archive that puts the center in a position to from the state bodies according to a special law... materials and archives can download... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which ensures the right,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] intensities of the applicant on the collected, on the pooling of available buildings in one place. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is an important and fundamental difference between these two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20909	Thank you very much. After the debate is opened, then you can get as a proponent of the word, when the debate is opened. I now ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mrs. Jadranka Kosor to explain the government's bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20910	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. I am sure that very soon after this debate we will get a truly final draft law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre and that most importantly, here are the two draft laws to implement a law that will be very soon under discussion. I suggest that it be in about twenty days and that here, we can say after that debate that this Centre is established which is rightly advocated by both ladies and gentlemen from the Croatian party of law. The Croatian Government proposes the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Communicative Center of the Homeland War for several important reasons, primarily because of the truth, of course, the real truth, because of the future because if we didn't know the real truth about the past, if we didn't defend it, then we wouldn't have a future. Of course because of oblivion, it's also something we talk about a lot. In particular, we speak at different meetings of Croatian defenders, their associations and members of their families. These discussions are little when they reach the general public, because they are mostly not particularly interesting to the media. However, these gatherings of Croatian defenders and members of their families discuss the need of a fierce community, a consensus on the agreed fight against oblivion. And, of course, one of the most important reasons for establishing such a memorial documentation centre, the fight against any possible reinterpretation of the new Croatian history. This Croatian government will, of course, not allow it. One way in which this battle is certainly the establishment of this Centre. I agree with most of what Mr Djapic and Mr Kovacevic were talking about. But there are some differences between these two laws. We think that this proposal proposed by the government is more elaborate in that the law is more enforceable, but I don't think it should be discussed today, raise tensions, it's important that as Mr Kovacevic puts it, we finally get to the centre, in which way, which law will pave the way, it doesn't matter. The fact is ladies and gentlemen that several different projects and research on Homeland War has been launched in the Republic of Croatia over the past years and hundreds of professional books and articles on the same topic have been published in the world. A significant number of these researches are based on unverified, unverified and professionally unprocessed documents which often rest on data collected from unverified sources, such as articles, interviews, comments, statements in the media that of course rarely reflect only subjective assessments. The current situation in which a large number of subjects are owned was also discussed by colleagues from the HSP. The documentation related to the Homeland War makes it impossible to complete, complete and of course use. Therefore, in order to ensure full professional and scientific processing of data and information on the Homeland War, it is necessary to establish one such institution. In that institution, of course, all documents, all data, to those from 140 to so far known mass graves from the Homeland War, must be concentrated. The data on one Ovcara, it is unfortunate that very often, here we meet in different statements, for example, when I mentioned Ovcara, different data on how many victims were found in that largest mass grave. So we need to know that information. It is therefore one of the tasks of this Documentation Centre as we propose and organise lectures and exhibitions and other forms of encouraging public interest, i.e. education of the public especially young people. For example, very often there is a number, a variety of exiles and refugees who have passed through Croatia, when we talk about refugees, or exiles who have been taken care of, it is little known that at one point in Croatia there were about a million exiles and refugees concentrated in one small space. So this is what the experts of the United Nations have said, and it is difficult for them to endure a much larger and richer country than Croatia. However, of course we were motivated, no one ever asked anyone who you were or where you came from, especially when it came to refugees from Bosnia and Herzegovina or what faith you were in, but we worked together so that no one would be without a doughnut over their heads and no one would be hungry for bread. Of course, this whole project is also a project to strengthen the Declaration of Homeland War adopted by the Croatian Parliament, the Declaration which clearly states that the Homeland War is just, defensive and liberating. In this sense, the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War will also enable the publication of books, magazines and other editions, as well as the organisation of which is of course the most important scientific research on the topic of the Homeland War. A few words, ladies and gentlemen, about the content of this law itself. So, this Law establishes the Croatian Memorial Center to promote the truth about the Homeland War. This is an article of the 1st of this Law, hence the truth from Vukovar to Dubrovnik, from Četikavac to Škabrnja. The truth is, of course, something that shouldn't be debated. The centre is founded as a public institution so specialized archive. The founder of the centre is the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of founders are carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It then lists the activities of the centre, the collection, the processing, the classification, the collection and publication of the registration and archive materials created in the Homeland War. Analysis, evaluation, statistical and scientific processing of materials related to the Homeland War, organising lectures, promoting public interest and getting acquainted with the Homeland War or what happened in the aggression in Croatia, co-operation with archives, museums and other institutions to improve their activities. The Centrom is run by the administrative council. It has a president and six members. Interestingly for, especially for the Croatian Parliament is that members of the administrative council are appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. The structure of the centre shall be governed by the Statute. The centre can have branches which I also think are well done in this proposal because it is important to have branches throughout Croatia so that not only in one place can collect data or materials. And, of course, the means to secure the work of this centre are State budget funds, but they can also be from other sources. Here are the ladies and gentlemen of the council, Mr. President, this is briefly about the government's proposal, about the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, and I am sure that we will soon have this centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20911	Thank you very much. Legislative committees, war veterans, for the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, for education, science and culture? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Mr. Peter Selem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20912	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture has for the first time discussed this topic on May 25th. on the bill submitted by the HSP Representatives' Club. At that time, a very thorough and serious debate was held and a unanimous view was that the initiative was absolutely welcome. I would say not only to help people in trouble what is now being said but for many broader and important reasons, i.e. keeping and promoting the truth about... and it's not one of the flat-rate truths, but the truths really based on documents and something that's scientificly relevant. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the occasion of this debate, the discussions were also made on a case-by-case basis. It has been noted that there is not a sufficiently clear relationship to the law, archives and archives. It also does not show too much whether it is an institution that will also have a scientific research intention or purpose. So, without even a moment in question the need for such an initiative and precisely wanting the initiative to go further, the Committee then concluded, on 25 May, most of the votes concluded that despite all these remarks that were very serious, the proposal was directed to a second reading. It was accepted in the first reading. On 9 July, the Committee discussed the proposal submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it was then concluded that the essence of the HSP proposal, the basic intention, the basic purpose of being fully understood, preserved, present, and that some of these were resolved, some of these, for example, formal but non-essential issues just as the relationship to law, archives and archives and scientific and research activities. So, as the Deputy Prime Minister said, this institution would become a specialized archive but also with an intention or task of scientific research. In that sense, we realized or came to the conclusion that this government proposal was more complete in terms of the details I was talking about and this proposal was unanimously addressed to another reading. I would finally, once again, and on my own behalf and on behalf of the Committee, heartily supporting this proposal and one and the other, say that, in fact, at a time when it was against the Homeland War, I would say a media war, a very unpleasant media war, that the establishment of this institution is very, very necessary. Another small proposal, one small bug that I will mention to the promoters, namely the external member of our Committee, the president of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts and our well-known renowned linguist Milan Moš referred to the name center. He believes that the name center is already over-expended and inaccurate, so he suggested the name of the institute or to think about someone else, preferably a more Croatian word that would replace this word center, which clearly does not change anything in the essence of the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20913	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. IDS Club, Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20914	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister, she is not here, Your Honor. I think everything would be good if, in addition to one such centre or institute, even if not the memorial and documentation were not very Croatian words, that this initiative did not in advance question the proponent, the promoter, the explanation that one, I dare say bold political provocation in advance condemned to failure. Name on page 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20915	Mr. Cain!
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20916	In paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20917	Mr. Cain, a moment! You can't call it and it's not in line with both good customs and decency to call the part of the reasoning of the bill a bold provocation with the indication that this already disqualified the bill itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20918	Can I go on?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20919	Here's to keeping order in this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20920	... On page 2, the HSP gentlemen literally state: “The International Court of Charges of Generals Gotovina, Bobetka, Cermak, Praljak, Petkovic and others in preparation declares Croatia a crime-emerging country, and the late President Tudjman, along with the political military summit, prescribes a legal fiction of the joint criminal enterprise, politicians and military commanders. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] According to this criminal part of the political military leadership of the Homeland War, Croatian defenders as well as those who defended Bosnia and Herzegovina have become criminals, war criminals... First quote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other one. In such a difficult and serious, truly critical political situation, because the foundation and future of the Croatian state were questioned, it was denied the right to self-defense as set out in Article 51. The Charter of the United Nations. The dignity of a Croatian man, a citizen, has been taken away. It is not enough to just legally or politically tear down all unacceptable content of the Hague indictments, but it should also include all other prerogatives of self-defense.” Done another quote. And a third. “It is high time to promote truth and testimony about the Homeland War, and it is necessary to establish the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, the state-constitutional authority, because it is right to ask the question of how long will Croatia be subject to abuse and ultra... The activities of an international institution, such as the Hague court for the former Yugoslavia. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] You should be aware of the fact that the obedient cooperation of Croatia with the tribunal and the sending of its heroes to the Homeland War before the court without guarantees and the possibility of fair tryal, a fair procedure in parentheses will ultimately result in all those who defend themselves against the charge that commanding accountability faces a verdict as soon as they open the gates of the Palace of Justice and so on. Obviously, the proposal for this law is a front to try to slow down co-operation with the Hague court. He is in that spirit this legal proposal is sent to the procedure. It was finally sent in the procedure of 19.4.2004 in the wake of General Mark Cicia's case. Apparently, it means that in response to an attack like this, it's under quotes, to a cooperative active authority that Carla del Ponte said was intelligent. I only know that one way can be led by a policy in the opposition, but when in power, if it does not want to ruin its people, it is duty to lead amongst other things and a policy that will correspond to international rules. And the one who doesn't understand is an adventurer. The people can make a mistake, they can't make a mistake, they simply have no right, because their mistakes take a chance on all the citizens of the country. I therefore personally believe that it is legitimate to de-commit with the assessment of the situation of this legislative proposal. I repeat in this legislative proposal that the international court declares Croatia a crime-emerging country. that everyone who defended Croatia in the Republic of Croatia and BiH became criminals, war criminals, abi micio. From the beginning. Third, the foundations of the Croatian state, fourth, were questioned, the right to self-defense was taken away. Croatia is the subject of abuse and ultrasource of the international court's efficiency above all powers, and so on. I personally believe that the arguments we have here are simply not standing. Perhaps the gentlemen of the HSP seem so, I claim that the great majority of the citizens do not stand. Just as it was just before when he was behind this speaker, Mr. Djapic, in front of the promoter, claimed that Croatia is on the accused bench, which I cannot believe. The Hague simply does not judge Croatia, Croatia is not on the indictee's bench, The Hague also does not question the Homeland War, does not question the country's right to self-defense. Neither does the Croatian state. And as for those charges that are mentioned here, I'm not going to let you go to the atmosphere in the assembly. However, I, who have no illusions about power, must admit that the government is indeed running an intelligent policy. Because if we were to question co-operation with the Hague court, the question is where would we be? And I finally believe that this government will close all open issues with The Hague by this year, and for the remaining three years, it will lead the country without a mortgage and without these pressures. It failed to bring exactly to the country to be free until the start of the trial of General Markac and Cerman but managed to return to the country of six Bosnian Herzegovic Croats and finally to Mr Blaskic's sentence was significantly changed. That's the first thing I want to say. I also think that today our citizens, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are not even of the primary interest of The Hague, but of the primary interest of the economy, they are primarily interested in their existence. Whether they will have bread, will they have work to do, will they have health care, but the same remarkable truth that happened in these rooms during the period from 91 to 95 before and after. I'm holding it that without this introduction, there's no way to talk about the law itself, because in my opinion, the explanation is a kind of provocation. Croatia has been deprived of the right to self-defense is said to be. Croatia is recognised 92. Czech Republic Slovakia 94. Well, not some way, and the world has helped stop the war in these areas. And so on. As far as the memory documentation centre itself is concerned, I don't think anything controversial appears in this part of this bill. We were all in such centers or a large majority of us were in such centers from the one in Israel to the one dedicated holocaust in Washington today. And I don't see a dispute in one such reflection and Croatia comes to one of its memorial documents, where all the historical structures associated with the Homeland War would be collected, what preceded it. And what happened, I'll say a few years after that. I clearly believe that World War II should not be forgotten. However, I personally and Klub IDSa disagree that such a centre has its headquarters in the Zagreb building. We have nothing against Zagreb. Yes, of course. But I want to say, in Zagreb, all state and para-state institutions. In Zagreb are the headquarters of all financial institutions, all major companies, i.e. the headquarters of their companies. Therefore, according to our court, it would be that the headquarters of the Memorial Documentation Centre should we call it, or the institution, entirely irrelevant in the city of Vukovar. Why? Because this city has passed a Calvary that no other city has passed for sure since World War II in today's Europe's space. Because if someone wants to see today what it looked like in their quotes, the fullness of aggression in Croatia should go to see and see Vukovar. I was there with General Bobetka right after the peaceful integration, then it was a totally destroyed city. 40 jobs, as stated here, that would be financed from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, are held at the IDSa Club would be far more necessary to open in Vukovar than in the city of Zagreb. And for the last time, one more time I'm going to go against this argument on behalf of the IDS Club. I believe that's what we're right to do. We'll vote for the memorial center. On condition that he is in Vukovar, unfortunately Vukovar will be able to show us his war wound for many years. And I think that the minimum should be correct if under quotes, don't literally understand me now, that the state of that city is being extended by forming one of these centers.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20921	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues are discussing two draft laws on the establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. I plead and beg all MPs and MPs not to drag the debate to another one of the colossals. TO discuss other topics, Croatia's relations with The Hague tribunal and everything else because it is a subject of another nature. The topic is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Krešimir Cosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20922	Dear Mr. President, I am correcting Mr. Cain's incorrect claim that he has hardened and said, it is not the interest of Croatian citizens of The Hague but of an economy and a better life. That is not true, Mr. Cain, you can speak on behalf of the IDS Club, on your own behalf, but you cannot speak for Croatian citizens, you cannot speak for me personally, and I think many and most Croatian citizens are very interested in how it works and how the Hague Court works. I personally and my family, as the Croatian defender and all those who defended and defended Croatia's independence and sovereignty, are very interested in how it works and what judgments and what charges the Hague court accepts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20923	Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20924	Mr. President, I would also correct the incorrect news of fellow Caine in which he argued that the priority of the Croatian state and Croatian people must be the economy and that is correct, but it is not true that it must not be a priority for both the Hague court and the indictments coming from it. In fact, through the name of the late President Tudjman, Šuška, Ante Gotovina and all other above are directly blamed for the country's war, the creation of independence and independence of the Republic of Croatia and is questioned that it is not... based on crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20925	Proposer, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20926	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues I agree with your orientation of the debate to discuss the subject of this but future Mr. Cain, who has been really acting unattractively in the Croatian Parliament lately, is throwing lies, I must now tell you Mr. Cain that we have directed this law and for your sakes to bring it, because you systematically in this Croatian Assembly have promoted, forged falseness and forged history. You accused Croatia of committing aggression against Bosnia and Herzegovina you accused Croatia of performing ethnic cleansing and therefore it is necessary to have a Croatian Memorial documentation centre to promote the truth both in the country and in the world. And this part of what you've been saying about the charges, it's a legal analysis of what's been contained in the indictments and against the late General Bobetka and all of these, don't let God make one indictment turn into a verdict with such qualifications, do you know what that means for Croatia, therefore, you don't even know what you're saying, I'm sorry, but you don't understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20927	Comrade Kovacevic, explain the proposal but don't, you're also getting into something that's secondary again.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20928	Look, Mr. Djapic, for this part, you didn't understand me very well. I said that there were two things that we've established together, it was in the Secretary of State to go for the Final Proposal, which is to be a public institution but specialized in the context of the archives and to be scientific, the distinguished doctor said nicely in that part there's no reason to argue and what Mr.... I didn't say at all, that the government wasn't helping. Look, the government and this move prove that she's both in intention... and cooperation with the Hague court and what's important to promote the truth about the Homeland War, so don't accuse the government here either. The government is here on the right level to finally get rid of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20929	On behalf of the SDP Club, respected representative Davorko Vidovic. And here it says on the application, change it. On behalf of the SDP Club, change is a respected representative, Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20930	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State. Let me point out from one additional aspect to the importance of these two laws that are before us. Both of them are small laws but it is a huge problem, and the adoption of these laws no matter how simple they are in terms of nomotechnical expression, the foundation of one institution is actually the adoption of a programme that must be set from the very beginning on its right feet to carry out its function. That function, if I were to describe it in just two sentences, would have to be at a level like someone said, and a worthy level of the Homeland War. First, it should be said that the Homeland War is the only war in history that has been waged on these terrains in which all Croats have been on one side and in which for the first time the Croatian state is founded not only by the state but also by the democratic state. It gives a special light to our responsibility that in research, the foundation of institutions and everything that is going to be called the Memorial Center, we do not make a mistake and that we do not take it exactly in this direction where we are now, as margins of these discussions, listening to stories that are below the level of the subject that we are talking about here. The Homeland War has really been written about a lot, it has been written mostly from individual views of those who have written, more serious historical synthesiss yet to be discussed. Although the government has, on several occasions, sought to interest some of the existing institutions in such opportunities, some have done so but to an insufficient extent to investigate archiving, and then all that follows, knowledge of the Homeland War leads to the level in which it can be competitive with up-to-date research, in which it can overcome any propaganda and not just propaganda. Because the definition would be insufficient, so I'm going to say something later that would kind of exhaust the meaning of this in terms of daily purposes or functions that aren't related to exactly one historical, archival fundamental dimension of an institution like this. How important it is that the whole of the building is collected, processed, and explored, and I have to tell you from one example in which I have somewhat and personally participated, which is that by the day of today may have been the most serious and systematic article published about the Homeland War, published in the Croatian Lexicon on one of the 25 major encyclopedia pages and that the term Homeland War at that time was strengthened because when it was moving in the debates of the 1990s and mid-90s there was no unanimity about the very term that we are talking about, today it was completely uncontestable. I am saying this to strengthen the position that serious work and serious justification can lead to serious results, which is why I will not talk here about the arguments of these or those, which are also in my opinion below the very text of what is proposed especially in the aspect proposed by the Government but I would warn that we will actually do half the work. With this huge program, we're going to do half the work because the other half of the work is really what it says here is that the memorial centre in charge won't be able to do this way, and it's that it's that it's also one monumental whole thing that somehow preserves memory, but not just memory, but that memory lives and lives in its noble elements. I have to say that several cities in Croatia have managed with projects of certain monumental features, I will only mention three characteristic ones. One is Osijek where... very well solved together with the monumental part, the Cyprus part one solution related to the Homeland War, one in Rijeka where it is also perfectly solved with one bridge that ends also with one Cypriot solution, an extraordinary memory, a feature of the Homeland War or one quite third in Đakov, where one of our prominent painters and prominent sculptor also made a very good one solution. However, we also have a series of solutions that are not at that level and that will not survive to say so the moment they came into existence. So even when we talk about such things as the foundation of a single centre, then we have to make it so that it can survive the moment it arises, that it does not respond to propaganda challenges, no matter how important these challenges are, and no matter how much they result in these effects, rather than being founded by themselves. Being founded by yourself means not subject to any controversy about the criminalization of this or that. Homeland war can't be criminalized. Individuals can say this or that, but what founded both democratic Croatia and free Croatia, what it is, to say what all Croatian citizens or a huge part of them participated in, and what opened the space after that and everyone else to join, cannot be criminalised. Therefore, there can be no basis for this law in response to anything that would be such or such criminalisation. I think that the text of the Government to get quite close to what might be accepted and what the SDP Klub would accept and support in terms of the adoption of the law itself, but precisely on these valuable assumptions that I tried to say a few words about, I would like to propose that the Proposer take into account some elements and perhaps correct the text in the context and definitions of the center itself, and then also in the context of some other descriptions of what he does. It is not good to say in the definition of the centre in Article 1 that it is established to promote the truth about the Homeland War in the country and the world. That's less than why it's being founded. It is founded and therefore, I do not dispute, but therefore it is established to carry out one collection, preservation, research of documents and all data related to the Homeland War. Let's not define it in a way that anyone can estimate that it's some kind of institution where the word promotion is going to be in the first place, because that's a lot more to be asked of itself. I think the definition of a public institution as a specialized archive is good, but maybe it's not enough. We have a chance, that when we've already passed a law on such an institution, we'll eventually determine it beyond that. If an institution that may not have all the elements to be a scientific institution because it is not subject to the Law on scientific work of a certain number of doctors of this or that, we, as a special law, can determine something that an institution that has attributes and elements of a scientific institution, especially research institutions. Article 4 in indent 2 should certainly highlight the aspect of research. It is insufficient to talk only about the aspect of statistical scientific processing, editing, classification, processing, collection of materials, but also research. It also seems to me that it is very important here to find a place to work with, to work with and with scientific institutions, also to say that there is cooperation with institutions both in the country and abroad, because the activity of such centres will certainly be related to cooperation with abroad in the broadest sense of the word and in the narrowest sense, with abroad in the sense of our neighbours themselves. He organizes scientific gatherings, doesn't just organize some public lectures, etc. rather than one of these basic works should be such, therefore, scientific gatherings. I hope that this kind of reading of this paper, benevolently, in the sense that, in order to achieve an institution that will really figure out something, which will fulfill its purpose, can, I hope, be accepted by the promoter as one useful template in which I can therefore participate and which I can support all parties. I am not sure of one thing, too, even as a useful perhaps note, that if the Croatian Parliament appoints and resolves members of the Board of Directors, then that this council, or centre, then submits the report only to the Government. It would be logical to submit it to the Parliament, if the Parliament were to report it. I'll only end up with one more note. So, as we would like this to be one institution that will justify this name based on what we've been talking about, I don't think we've done any other commitment, which is that in Zagreb, in one central place, we realize something that we started, but we care about the change of government. I don't believe he cares about the intention, but it just might not have been time, but I want to underline here that it should continue, and that's an idea that has come to a significant stage of development about raising monuments to the homeland. A monument to the homeland, as it has and where it has come to, is its committee, headed by the prime minister. We had several meetings involving both the profession and the association of defenders, in which the Council for Urbanism gave an extremely useful opinion, where even an idea was elaborated. I will just say it, I think it deserves to be mentioned in the Parliament, which is that in today's present square of Stjepan Radić, so in the extension that goes from the station, from Zrinjevac, the fact age of a profile and that it is a place where the issue of the monument of the homeland will then be solved, as indeed those places that will not only symbolize, but be an active part of the life of democratic Croatia, in the way of honoring both the homeland and the democratic plantings where it can only be developed. I hope that will continue with this, as I say also, one of the key elements of the rounding up of our relationship to the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20931	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20932	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I will correct the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who stated that there is no possibility of cooperation with scientific institutions in Article 4. It says "with other institutions" which is understood. And I would say this, that the activity may have missed you, in the last paragraph, "the activity of the centre closer is being arranged by its statute in which it will be extensively and comprehensively resolved what it does, how it works and what it collects from and from whom."
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20933	On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, respected representative Krešimir Ćosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20934	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. First, it is certainly full of support for initiatives to establish such an institution, full support to the HSP Club's initiative, as well as full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which recognised the importance and importance of this initiative. Certainly, to pass a law like this, to establish an institution like this called the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, or some others, is only part of the job. To establish an institution does not mean to succeed in a job that is set as a goal and I will talk about it. Many institutions we have established, they have not carried out their mission, we have also brought the Declaration of the Homeland War without the appropriate desired effects. I will repeat and highlight the basic reasons that motivated the proposings for the foundation of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, which is primarily the promotion of the truth about the Homeland War in the country. Promoting the truth about the Homeland War in the world is equally important, I will not say more important, but very important because of the credibility of the Republic of Croatia, because of the credibility of all of us, our citizens, and the generations to come. Storage and systematicization of home war buildings is very important, but what I think and believe is certainly the most important quality, responsible and professional processing of all available historical, military and other buildings that are related to the Homeland War. So I repeat, the initiative deserves support because it really isn't any flossula, it's no exaggeration. The truth about the Homeland War is threatened, it disappears for various reasons. I'll give you at least three reasons. The first and primary reason is time. Time's running out. It's been almost ten years since the end of the Homeland War. That forgetfulness factor given the priorities that change as we go away from those years, and that's something that worries. Most probably many today young people 10 or 15, almost understand or do not know anything about the overall political, social, security and other circumstances in the late 1980s and early 1990s, and this forgetting factor must not have an impact on changing the truth about the Homeland War and therefore we are obliged to react and I think this is the last hour and the right time to organize ourselves. What's the other reason? I'd say the second reason is the fact that we haven't done what we had to do in the last 10 years. We must be critical and we must be aware of our failures and mistakes in order to correct them, in order to function more efficiently and more responsibly towards ourselves, especially those who created the Croatian state in the Homeland Defence War from 1991 to 95. We haven't formed an institution like this that we're talking about today, and we've had to do it much earlier. Third. While we are in an institutional context sufficiently disorganised, it is not the Hague Court and it is something that we must be concerned about because institutions operating around the Hague Court in support of the Hague court's prosecution are very well organised as NGOs with significant financial resources, with significant professional, professional and, if you will, any other support. I wouldn't say scientific, because scientific support is not an inherent lie. And here are the reasons why they want us to react. I hope after proper preparation in the second reading that we will get a bill that will be accepted in all elements. What's going on? Still, something that I would say is dangerous and as wise and responsible people, we must always observe the worst scenario that can happen to us. We expect the Republic of Croatia to join and become a full member of the European Union in a few years' time. It is not impossible to activate certain Hague indictments that will aim to disqualify the Croatian state, disqualify that period from 91 to 95. This ability to predict the worst cases must be a characteristic of responsible, capable, and wise policy. It is offensive and humiliating for all those sitting here, but also for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to hear the words about the joint criminal enterprise. That's offensive and humiliating. I say that on my own behalf, because I know that in 90 and 91 I did not do much other than my own profession, other political and other circumstances, but when it became clear in 91 that it was an open brutal aggression on the Republic of Croatia, then I became a responsible Croatian soldier. I therefore hold that there is an important and responsible task ahead of us and that we will properly be able to organise and establish an institution that will be able to deal with all the complexity of the tasks ahead of us. I'd like to say something about how you can and how you have to defend the truth about the Homeland War. I think Professor Selem, on behalf of the Committee on Science, said something about it, and I want to be clear and explicit to the end. The truth about the Homeland War cannot be defended by improvisations, it cannot be defended by articles only in newspapers improvised, unfounded and very often with certain unnecessary and unacceptable political goals. The truth about the Homeland War can only be defended by proper scientific approach to the Homeland War. And that's why I'm going to say something that we need to do in this sense to be the basis of our work and our action within this institution when it comes to this task. Today I was surprised several times when I spoke to some people abroad, and by the way, there was talk of the Homeland War. They corrected me when I said Homeland War, they said civil war. Gentlemen, there was no civil or civil war, it was open, brutal, organized aggression. There is no civil war on the one hand, those who are armed with planes, tanks not to tell cruisers, destroyers, and on the other hand those who are disarmed. Both the Croatian people and the Croatian state in 1991 were without weapons or I would say much more precisely, it was disarmed. These truths, these simple facts of the year 91, should be responsibly presented to everyone in Croatia, but I would say equally important to both serious scientific institutions and the world. The truth about the Homeland War is particularly important to us on the international scene. Several times I had the opportunity to speak to certain ambassadors and dignitaries who were aware of all the problems facing the Republic of Croatia with regard to full co-operation with the Hague Court and at that time very often knew more or less all the same, or very similar suggestions, organize international scientific meetings, conferences. When it comes to these topics, call everyone, both scientists and serious, and responsible professionals from Belgrade and other places, because establishing the truth about the Homeland War of the Sea is our goal, because we know that in that war we have defended ourselves and that we have been exposed, I would say to an outrageous brutal aggression. And because this institution that we are talking about today, whose foundations are through this debate in the first and second readings we establish, are as high as possible, more functional and more responsible as possible, I will be free to propose: I believe that this institution should have the name of the Homeland War. The Institute of Homeland War as an institution subject to certain laws above all to the Law on Scientific Research will be determined in its work to comply with strict standards of profession. Instead of dealing with everything and everything and in the end nothing, without proper results, without adequate opportunity for this information to be presented and to the international community in our wider environment, I believe that this institution must, and I hope that by the second reading through appropriate discussions and arrangements we can agree that it be the Institute of Homeland War and that this institution functions as a modern... The kind of Croatia unfortunately does not exist. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Given the importance of this problem, I'm holding that we're going to organize ourselves and do everything we can to make it an institute, to be in line with the Law on Scientific Research, with the Archive Act, which you were talking about. The collection of buildings is very important, but what is my feeling is far more important quality, responsible, professional, professional and in scientific ways to process these buildings, I would say the most important thing is all. And ultimately, this institute is as a public institution, extremely important, but I believe that it should also have certain elements of freedom, independence that is very important when we talk about modern forms of civil society organisation that it really acts as an NGO or half-government, a scientific institution. Today in the world, as you all know, there are many NGOs who, with their numbers and their budgets, are estimated at several hundred million dollars and form many important, large strategic issues on the wider international political scene, including the Hague Court. Unfortunately, such Croatian non-governmental organisations do not work, there are no, and when we talk about the structure, the way such an institution works, I believe that we will also have those elements in mind. Certainly here in the debates it was stressed that this was not the first initiative. You said in 98, 2001, I also remember some initiatives that are for various reasons, I would not talk about them, as they passed, and their goal was very simple and clear within the relevant national scientific programme to launch scientific research projects that will deal with scientific work, it was not and it was one proof of the weaknesses of existing institutions and insufficient responsibilities and lack of interest to find themselves on the agenda under the Scientific Research National Programme of the Republic of Croatia and these topics and receive adequate full support. The initiatives I'm a member of, we've written... A scientific analysis of the Homeland War without the data on the artillery destruction of Croatian cities, without data on the expulsion of the Serbian population, etc., there is no real truth about the Homeland War. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Without proper scientific, objective, professional, professional approach to these problems, there is no stable political scene, long-term in the Republic of Croatia and responsiblely informed Croatian public who must be able to recognise and protect their national interests and values. And here's a few words about the articles of both proposals. Both proposals emphasize what I was talking about. HSP proposal, Article 4 of the professional and scientific historical work on the collection of classifying and handling of registered archival buildings. In addition, Article 4 reiterates the importance of scientific processing of information, Article 8 referred to the scientific research department of that institution in Article 9 concerning scientific work, in Article 12 on doctorate, science, etc. In a similar way, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal stresses the need for organised quality professional and responsible scientific work. Article 4 emphasizes the scientific work, the materials related to the Homeland War. Article 6 I agree with the observation given here by the centre of one year of reporting on its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, however, that institution must submit an appropriate report to the Croatian Parliament at least once a year. And here's what I'm going to do. The HDZ Club supports these initiatives, with expectations that, prior to the submission of the final proposal for this law, consultation at the level of clubs, as well as meetings with all bodies, relevant government bodies, parliamentary committees, relevant public institutions and individuals to obtain a proposal that will receive full support in the Croatian Parliament. And here, I might end up being a little bit and immodest, perhaps ambitious or too ambitious and say when it comes to this project and the foundation of that institution not only in its initial stages but also in its work, then I hold that because of the lessons learned in the past and acquired experiences we must pay particular attention to the supervision of the institution's work at all stages. Here, I apply voluntarily as a parliamentary representative and as a Croatian defender, a retired Croatian general to lead, help, the foundation of a parliamentary commission that will devote itself to overseeing the foundation of this institution and ensuring all necessary conditions for it to function in the way that it is defined here by the set goals that I felt less everyone agreed with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20935	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, Mr. Representative Zeljko Kurtov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20936	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Proposal for a law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, we in the CNS and PGS support the awareness that we are the truth and chronologically and neatly drawn up documentation and any other building from the Homeland War can make order and display the Homeland War in exactly the same way, i.e. objective and impartial frameworks as he ran. We are witnessing various attempts, twists, and creations of some of our truths, and unfortunately the participants themselves and that same war are involved. However, our opponents twist such arguments and try to portray the Homeland War as criminal and criminal. We in HNS and PGS think that the centre should be formed in already known institutions and we know that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision at its meeting on 9 March 2001 to launch scientific research into the Homeland War. A decision to launch scientific research into the Homeland War. The fundamental value of the Homeland War is the establishment and defence of the state sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, thus creating assumptions for the rule of law and the rule of law and for the coherent development of the Republic of Croatia as a country that accepts the democratic standards of the modern Western world and opens up a number of approaches in this world and a political security, economic and cultural sense. I'll just read a few more of that. The Government of the Republic of Croatia estimates that only an objective and scientific approach based on relevant documents enables the creation of legal images on the causes and course of and casualties during the Homeland War. She concluded that it was necessary to implement a special scientific project to deal with the Homeland War. The Croatian historical institute is designated as the project holder, the study project of the Homeland War and, to this end, it is necessary to establish a special department within the Croatian historical institute. This project will be financed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Ministry of Science and Technology, which is tasked with carrying out all necessary actions to implement the project as soon as possible, informing the Government. The scientific advice of the project will be established to monitor the project. The Government of the Republic of Croatia encourages the Ministry of Science and Technology to, through scientific projects and in other ways, approach the study of historical processes from 1918 that led to aggression against the Republic of Croatia, including the victims of the population in the period from 1918 to the end of the Homeland War, with special emphasis on victims of political accounts and war crimes. The scientific project “Creation of the Republic of Croatia and Homeland War 1991, 1995, 1998” with 8 scientists and young researchers working at the Croatian Institute of History should be near the end and should be seen at what stage their work is. This project gives us a bill of papers and monographs about the Homeland War in 1991, 1995, 1998. The whole work must be taken by experts already involved in this work, and only if necessary can they take teams and individual experts if needs are indicated and in order to make better work. We believe that a new department should be created within the Croatian historical institute and the State Archives, which would unite all activities and could eventually have the title: Homeland War Documentation Centre. Since the Parliament has so far made no report on the realisation of the government decision that I mentioned earlier, I consider it necessary that before any decision we get a report on what we have done so far. What has been done so far in this regard? If it turns out that the simpler it is, the more important it is and the cheaper it is, to go to the establishment of a completely new Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War, we in the HNS, the PGS, also support such a sequence of events because we are aware of the importance of handling the situation in the Homeland War, about the Homeland War. And around the Homeland War. This way I would ask all those warlords and participants of the Homeland War who have various photographs and original documents and various maps from the Homeland War to hand them over to a new center for better insight and more genuine work of the Centre. Why did part of the building and documents stay with the commander? Simply because part of the building on weapons and weapons return was requested from certain institutions and logistics and a large part of the documents simply did not ask for anyone. So we as commanders, me and one of them concluded that it is best to keep it and today I see that I was right and that it is good that we did it and I personally have a part of the building, means one cardboard box that I will gladly hand over and help my colleague Cosic make this part of the job right and that we are all in the Republic of Croatia agreeable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20937	Thank you. Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSS Club, Mr. Zdenko Harami. Here you go. So it's not Zdenko Harami, it's Mr. Ante Markov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20938	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We welcome the debate of, and the proposals of these two laws that speak about the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre, a documentary centre which is of course very similar and which solve the same matter regardless of who launched the initiative. At this point, it is more important that she came to the agenda, because, as the truth has been pointed out here repeatedly, it is always to be kept, the truth should always be confirmed. Unfortunately, in the modern world, with all its differences in action, either on a political, economic or social plan for truth, it is necessary to fight. The struggle for truth is actually the creation of truth even though it seems paradoxical in itself, but if we don't create the truth then we lose our right to the truth. And then someone else got the right to interpret what wasn't true. The world is full of examples where truth is lost. The world is full of relationships in which the truth was gained more than it existed. That's why the question is whether this project is too late. It would be better if the Croatian state had long before very strong answers on the defence of the truth about the Homeland War. It is in nature to defend the truth about Croatia. That is why, because of the constant cascade of events, it was constantly threatened by events, and as soon as they threatened it, they had the opportunity to shape some other forms that did not correspond to the truth. That truth was interpreted differently and in the context of this bill I see two sides and two goals of this. The first one's on the home plan. The second is on the international agenda. That's two seemingly the same goal. Unfortunately not. Of course, the goal of home is to agree first. As one good and decent family, to agree on the truth as it was and to be witnessed by the whole family for their credibility. It is therefore necessary to carry out the selection and collection of the archival structure of all those experiences and of all those witnesses of the times that God has many thanks. A lot of us are, are witnesses of that time. It is precisely these witnesses of time who must not be vain to express their truth no matter how much it is sometimes caused by something else. That is exactly what this systematization of truth and opinion on the domestic agenda is the fundamental and first objective of this entire project. Of course she has to revive as a scientific institution. So he has to get that character that belongs to the truth because the truth after a while belongs only to what science has confirmed. What has been proven and what will never be discussed in history again. And everything that isn't that way in, included is always possible for the court of time and the court of history to change it. It's a far more serious matter, unfortunately and more difficult on that international plan. The plan that defines, directs, guides Croatia's current policy, and in the future will have a very powerful impact on our, our place, our role and our rights in the modern world. This truth on the international agenda is an expression, one unification of domestic truth, the strength of Croatian diplomacy and the use of our friends, which unfortunately we have forgotten lately. Thus, when creating this truth on the international agenda, there is no thing that can move us on that path either left or right. The creation of this truth is so crucial for economic Croatia for political Croatia and for better Croatia than for each other. When we establish this goal, then we are a sovereign people, who have the right to their own culture and to mark their expression differently on an international basis. Unfortunately, we don't have that today. Today we are the kind of hostages of those who plan the future of the modern world, in a way that we accept or have to accept what does not suit us. It's not today. Our problems in international proof of Croatia as a sovereign state that grew up equally at the will of the people and in justice was not enough. That is why an idea that has been supported by Croatia's establishment of the Hague tribunal has grown into its negation. And when the truth grows into a negativity of truth, then it's hard to turn processes around to be the other way around. But it's not just the Hague tribunal that's subject to the international plan. The whole relations of events and of the enlargement of the European Union, and the predictable future for the area of South-Eastern Europe, contributes to the need to strengthen its negotiating positions, but also to strengthen the political being of Croatia, and that all those expressions that come from Croatia must be unique, must be scientific and must safeguard our fundamental value, which is also the subject of this Law. Therefore, in order to achieve, above all, the messages of this Parliament, regardless of the submissions, it should be that this is one of the strategic documents of this House of this lovely and this Government. What is the expression of the will of all parliamentary representatives of all political parties and all political options. Because otherwise that document will be nothing if it is the expression of the majority or the expression of vanity. These two categories are equally bad and I will do the same bad thing to the future of Croatia. Therefore, we have a lot of time to read, and I believe that we have a lot of good will to really make a step forward and to enable those who are leading the country today and those who are leading external diplomacy, that with much greater intensity in terms of efficiency, they can deal with the problems they are dealing with today, but unfortunately with all those who will be thrown out in the future. Therefore, this strategic document and this strategic project, regardless of the fact that we were late with it, and that we did not take advantage of all that flight, enthusiasm, power of will, but also the reputation that once enjoyed and that reputation in the context of our truth, which was both clear and recognizable, we did not know how to use it when it was time. But let's not let her disappear any further. I believe that we have the strength and political will and consensus to turn this document into a strategic document that will give the right to a better and better quality future of the Republic of Croatia and of all its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20939	I thank Mr. Representative Markov. And I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 207, it is time for the debate hearing to be discussed for 10 minutes and now the word has on behalf of the DCA HSLSA Club Mr. Representative Frano Piploić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20940	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here's after these first arguments by the motionors and after these debates so far, I'm convinced that when the aces finish this procedure we're going to get to the law that ultimately we're going to have what we're all behind here for. TO get one institution that will be able to get through the work of that institution, that we will be able to come to the truth very much needed truth about our present and our future. This Law is first and foremost for us to first learn these truths, to learn these truths, because this period since the end of the Homeland War so far shows that we don't know ourselves enough. There's that old saying, man. Meet yourself. People of Croatia meet yourselves. Meet your role, in creating a Croatian state you know your failures in creating a Croatian state so that they can be cleansed with these truths in the end to all those who have other intentions on the international agenda. The Club of Representatives of the Democratic Centre and HSLSA gives full support to the adoption of this Act. Which will lead to the establishment of such a significant institution. We believe that it is high time to establish a facility like this because our memory of the Homeland War has entered a very dangerous stage of oblivion. Unfortunately, we seem to have begun to get used to the fact that often very significant dates have been forgotten. I can say that qualified for the environment I come from. And it finally became embarrassing to remember these glorious days of our history. It is known that the people who cannot appreciate their past are also questionable to them. A difficult and painful experience from the past 40 centuries of the 20th century gives us a responsible and complete approach to one of the most famous eras of Croatian history, so this is the era of Croatia's creation. The Age of the Homeland War, which was both liberating and defensive. And after which we created a modern Croatian state. Unfortunately, the events of the 40 ’ s last century and the days today burden our present and our relationship. It would be much easier for a young Croatian state if we had no such reasoning and had mastered all the truths of that period. The Club of Representatives of the DCA and HSS is holding precisely because that history would not have happened to us unhappy from the 40s of the last century, which was ideological. Divisions conflicted, full of blood and self-destruction, that today we need the truth and the documented truth, the truth about our successes, the truth about our plight, the truth about our sufferings, but also the truth about our failures in the Homeland War. The size of the Homeland War was also in that despite the difficult divisions from this past period, that our small ordinary Croatian man and citizen showed strength and will by turning from a small and peaceful citizen of craftsmen, workers, into a warrior. And I witnessed this transformation, the man in the county of the ship's Posavina, the ship's council. People who couldn't handle almost a gun forgot the training they completed in the former JNA years ago. People who had no greater knowledge of war as they responded willingly to the call of the then leadership of the state and the president of the state, and should defend the country. The size is also in the historical role and unity that the Croatian people showed just then when it was needed most, and I believe that we will today as we advocate such a law, that we will show this unity and show that wisdom. Unfortunately, there were also those with whom we as a people and as a state cannot be proud in that age, there were both deserters and frauds and war profiteers and benefiters as well as those who have sinned against man, human rights and freedoms. The DC and HSLS Club believes that we need the truth and about them so that we can truly valorize the Homeland War and bring this truth to our younger generations for inheritance. We also need the truth about those citizens of Croatia who were on the other side, including those who have also become victims so that they are not unduly suspected. We also need the truth about those who are around peaceful neighbors turned into beasts, ferocious killers and robbers. This memorial center isn't a center against the truth. It's for the truth. It is not the place to produce historical lies, nor is it the center for creating the bright past as we have witnessed in the former system that we have almost had at every step of such a centre for creating a bright future. We believe that the most important thing is this first stage, the building-gathering phase. As the war was waged on a large part of Croatia at different levels and in different entities, many documents and testimonies of the Homeland War were created. This documentation is scattered, unconventional, nor scientific-professional, exposed to decay, exposed to the teeth of time, must be collected first of all, preserved, processed, cleaned also from the propaganda that we used in the strategy and tactics of war. We are witnessing how these structures are used very effectively today to forget the Homeland War, especially when it so unworked comes out of different sources from different owners and goes uncontrollably into the world. Finally, the DC and HSLS Club believes that it can make some concrete proposals to improve the proposed text of the draft. We will give this more detail for a second reading, but it seems to me that in Article 7, Article 4, paragraph 3, paragraph 4, is to be added, or that the centre should set up branches in order to be more efficient in order to build on the Homeland War within the appropriate time limit. So we suggest that it be in Dubrovnik, Sibenik, Zadar, Gospić, Karlovac, Sisak, Slavonski Brod, Vinkovci, Vukovar and Osijek precisely for the very reason that it is now necessary to collect and collect these buildings because people who, because they were mainly created on these grounds. Furthermore, it should also be taken into account to interest local administrations and self-government, as this whole project will not be able to be realised without a stronger involvement of local administrations in the whole project. It is particularly important for the financing of employees, as local self-government could give space and pay for the costs of the operation of these spaces. We also believe that it should not happen to create a large facility here in Zagreb and that this building is actually being collected from Zagreb. So this could be a headquarters, and it has its branches in the places that we listed here. Finally, an interim director should be proposed in Article 10 here, we propose that the interim director be appointed before the Governing Council, and the aim is to get the centre started as soon as possible, as it is necessary for the interim director to appear before the administrative board with a final draft of the statutes. As a vision of the development of the centre is necessary in further development, we are of the opinion that a four-year development plan of the centre is needed immediately, and the administrative board has control over the implementation of the plan through financial plans, annual plans and reports. We have two suggestions here. I am convinced that both proposals will deserve attention and that eventually we will have a single proposal and that we would actually show that we appreciate all those values of the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20941	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club Prof. Dr. It's a famous Leticia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20942	Dear Mr. Baby. As a kind of pedagogical teaching, I will remember in 1990 when the Museum of Revolution was to be abolished at the time of the Fascism Victims' Square, and later on, the square of Croatian giants, currently the market of victims of fascism. Then the late president and I decided to establish a war museum that would in some way be the treasure of the wartime traditions of the Croatian people, but we didn't want to do it alone, but we invited leading historians, curators, architect experts to one debate. I mention this because it would be good to have a assembly hearing between the first and second readings with a similar purpose, to invite historians who deal with modern history, from different institutions. Today in Croatia, we have 10 or 15 serious research centres dealing with this problem. Speaking on behalf of the HSP Club, I need to say two facts, that this is the third attempt by the HSP, a party, to establish one such institution, and for that party this centre is somehow a struggle for a useful past. The big step made by the party in changing its ideological or ideological and political inspirations is based on the original justice of Dr. Ante Starčević and the so-called modern compassionate conservatism and the tradition of the Homeland War. Therefore, it should be respected that this is the original proposal of the HSP. When I talk about it, I'm not happy, I'm a professional scientific worker, in our profession plagiarism is something that's a hard crime. That'll be Professor. Cosic understands well. On similar occasions when laws are made, it is good to pass the best laws, but the minimum of intellectual honesty requires that people are not seriously involved in intellectual harvesting. I'm not saying that as a criticism, but that in the future, simply to save the intellectual energy of this House. If someone does something and he's just being someone unsimpatisfactory, I'm going to say right now, I'm going to strongly support the excellent proposal on the rights of Dr. Ive Banca, who is very important to this nation and it is good to read it and it is good to discuss it in an adequate way. And in a similar way you must know that at this time there are wars in Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other wars in Southeastern Europe, printed over 2,000 serious books, about 2,000 non-serious books, over 20,000 expert and scientific discussions and articles and over 2 million different articles. So these are newspaper articles, reviews, memoirs, documentary series, documentary films and movies played. I'm telling you this because you have one idea of what this institution should look like, I forgot to present, welcome the representatives of the ministry. So it's very important to say where she's going to be and what her concept is. Maybe it should be the Liberty Multimedia Center. Maybe you should put it in Dubrovnik for a lot of reasons. Because of international scientific communication, because of the archival tradition, because of the suffering of Dubrovnik, of course Vukovar in this Homeland War, there is a lot of reason to support it because of the demetropolisation of scientific and every other life in this nation. So it's allowed in some areas to be useful in an adequate way, and in that sense I think, first of all, that the concept of the institution, the determination of its location, should be depoliticalised. It is often said that the purpose of this institution is to promote the truth about the Homeland War. That can't be the point of any professional, let alone scientific institutions. It's a systemic error in both proposals. That's what other people do, diplomacy, journalists, researchers, skaters do. These hopes will come to Zagreb by a friend of mine named James Atkovic. He writes a political biography of Dr. Francis Tudjman, otherwise he's a serious historian. At the same time, he's working on another type of biography of the late president. That's what Darko Hudolist does to write his popular biography. Behind that popular biography there are about 40 hours of recorded authentic conversations. These talks are the subject of this future center. It's not about interpretations. So there should be original documents at that center. There is a great deal of trouble and a great abuse of the role of the President of the Republic, manipulation and destruction and abuse of the archive building of the late President Tudjman. This should have been submitted to the Croatian Archives. It has been used selectively, used for day-to-day policy purposes, to demonise others and to glorify and beatify their own roles. This should also be permanently prevented in this legislative proposal. I have a lot of authentic documents. I'll mention the three I have in my own writing. The first is the fascinating letter of General Rashate to the mother of Gordan Lederer the moment he was killed with typical arrogance, insolence, criminal spirit and the former Yugoslav People's Army, he boldly and rudely declares that he will not provide her with help. In writing, I have a letter from General Trifunovic's son, quite the opposite letter. I don't know where he's been with his friends, his girlfriends, his girlfriends, and he's asking his own father not to destroy his friends, his neighbors. I have at home a letter of authenticity, "The White Eagle Diaries" from central Slavonia, a young Serb soldier fed up with a Chetnic spirit came here to kill Ustasha, left alone, hungry, unhappy, miserable, and perhaps his parents did not know that such documents existed. There are thousands of such documents, whoever takes the job to do this job, it has to be a deeply impartial job, it's gotta be a long-term job, it's gotta be a bloody job, because in that area it has to take the truths of the other side. We'll face the network of institutions. There are Serbian truths about Vukovar, there are American truths, right now the situation of Croatia is very bad. There are finally letters from the dead home, if you've seen in the last week, you have a letter from General Markac about living conditions in his cell. I've talked to him, and I'm going to end up with the late government of Gotovina more than once about the life of a slave. When he wrote My Case, there was no cell description in the book, and I asked him why there was no cell description, which is why, because it's something Dostoyevsky would write. He said it was such a terrible experience that he simply couldn't get the emotional strength to write about it. General Markac describes how his daylight comes through window 15 to 15, he's a severe diabetic patient, takes him to his insulin in the morning, puts a vest, handcuffs on his hands. Therefore, it is not important to collect the points declared, but rather to try to help at that level, and I appeal to Prime Minister Ivo Sanader tomorrow to help General Markac take his insulin without a vest and without handcuffs. It has nothing to do with loyalty. It has to do with patients' rights, it has to do with simple human honesty and kindness. So, I welcome this initiative, and I would like to pray that by the next, until the next reading, what I said is, that the best historians, preferably different generations, those who deal with both modern history and historical methodology, that there is no discrimination, to call Dr. Ivo Banca, and if you call me as an amateur and as a witness to history, I will gladly give out from my own letter a lot of documents for which unfortunately, let's say, that ends, the last document is a description from a minute to a minute of Vinkow military-redarative action. Perhaps it is the only document that exists today in Croatia, perhaps somewhere. There are people like that wherever you want from different areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20943	Thank you very much. All I'm gonna say is that yesterday the lawyer was Mr. President. The marker is a good part of what you said here denied, that it's a letter from General Markach. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Professor Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20944	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. It's absolutely certain that there are those in this hall who think, even though I'm the last on the list of speakers on behalf of the club, that maybe I shouldn't actually talk. But that's one of the reasons why I came forward, that in this House, in our public and political life, in other aspects, we don't, above all, talk about science, we don't extend taboo topics. Although it is necessary, quite clear, that in some matters in the debates and in the public and in the public, we refrain because of respect, feelings, sufferings that people have been through, or because of the attitudes and beliefs of other people. Guided by that, I'll say a few things about these two proposals. First, in order to raise my hand for one of these proposals or some third that will come, audited or reworked, it will be necessary for them to meet some of the following assumptions: First, not to be party proposals, or to come from parties, but not party spirit, but general spirit. In Croatia, we have seen party pluralism as deep party divisions that have disrupted the general national spirit. And today it feels like it's in these discussions that we've been having. And not only today, but also today, with all the consideration most speakers had for others. But we feel those divisions. And that's why every possible proposal that we raise our hands for should be as much as possible. In addition to the indisputable facts about the different behaviour of individual parties during the wartime, before wartime, wartime and return periods. But it is quite certain that the proposal for a solution for a memorial, documentation, research centre in the Homeland War would have to have a general national character. Secondly, it is quite certain, as has already been said here by some speakers, that the establishment of the Memorial Research Centre should not contribute to the divisions either politically or ethnically in Croatia but rather to their unification. I'd like to say next. Not only would I like to have my child but also the child of the voters who choose me for this House can enter that Memorial center and feel like in their home. Maybe it's the ideal, maybe it won't be with everyone, maybe it won't be possible under these circumstances, but for that ideal I am in the political life of Croatia. Because of this ideal, I have accepted to represent the Serb community in Croatia. The third thing I would like to say is, it is understandable that so far there has been more politics and political talk about this topic than scientific. But it is also understandable, as many colleagues have mentioned here by the HDZ and by the SDP and the third and HSP, that the research dimension in its complexity from building collection to building processing cannot, it cannot be cared for by the government and the government is even less able to interpret it. And that is why it is good that if it comes and I hope that it will come to the realization of this, not only of the law but also of this important project that then this Parliament, with all its internal pluralism, which is a reflection of national Croatian pluralism, will be the one who will take care of the required breadth of research and the necessary independence, which will, in fact, be protected to the best extent, by what we want, which is values, dignity, facts and what people call truth, regardless of the differences that exist in this respect. And finally let me say this. I can't hear it as someone on the side but I can't help but notice that much more is said about the truth than the memory. The memorial center should be one mention center. And I think that we on the political stage should do anything to emphasize that very dimension. And to those who have experienced, who have their own personal experience, whether direct participation, as a fighter or those who have been victims, we leave the question of truth that people will wear long-painted one way or another and leave it to researchers who will sometimes be favored, sometimes unfriendly, but we have to create space to do so. In other words, if you'll let me finish. A lot of things that started in the '90s for which people from these or those positions fought during the war and after the war we have yet to finish, we have yet to bring and calm down including us here in this assembly and including most of the people who live in Croatia. It's not a question of whether or not the Hague is interesting to people, it's clear that they find it interesting. And it's not a question of whether the economy is important to them or not, so clearly it's too important to them, but people expect us to bring them peace and security in that calm. And that they have the opportunity to know that a place was also created for a memory that would not conflict, that would unite and, on the other hand, that a place was reached for a memorial where people wouldn't doubt for a moment that what they went through was in vain. And if it was in vain then let it be for those who deserved it to be in vain. For most people in this country, regardless of the political, religious or ethnic dimension, it was not in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20945	Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to a debate, individual. The first to speak was Mrs. Ruža Tomasic. She's gone, she's losing her right. Then, Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20946	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues. We have here two legislative proposals that are almost identical. The differences are small, insignificant. This actually continues with a government practice that in relation to opposition legal proposals. It is interesting that the HSP's legal proposal has not even delivered an opinion, no opinion from the government. So we're not, we can't determine what the government originally thinks about this HSP proposal, whether it accepts or rejects it. We can only come to this indirectly, and that's when we read the text of the Government's bill, so when we see that the difference is almost gone. In the previous assembly of parliament, there was one precedent with the Croatian Party of Rights. It seemed to me that the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest when it was concluded that the elector, therefore, in cooperation with the Government, was making a final draft of the law. I think it's a good practice that was introduced as a precedent but that should continue. Because I can understand that the government rejects some legal proposals that we disagree with, it's perfectly natural and logical. But that he does not accept legal proposals that he agrees with just because the opposition proposes it cannot take it as reasonable behavior. In order to strengthen parliamentaryism, I call on the government to follow the good practice of the last call. Do we need the Memorial Documentation Center? I think we need him, I think we need him and that you really should be one of the Croatian... Now that we need him, then the question is, are we going to his place from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] political reasons, party reasons, or we really want to create a serious institution that will deal with important and serious business. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is what Mr. Vujic and Mr. Letica and Mr. Pupovac spoke of today inspiredly. And I think those three debates in what they intended should be the government's lead in making a final bill. Which means that this good start, the first step has been taken by the HSP, the government has taken a second step, and in that third step perhaps in collaboration with the HSP, with the suggestor to work on the seriousness of this proposal. Because if we don't, I think we're not just gonna achieve the purpose for which this law is proposed, but we're in danger of doing damage. It's true. The building has been scattered now in various places. There's one in headquarters, there's one in the ministries, in the president's office, in private collections. Here's Mr. Letica himself admits that he has important and interesting documents in a private collection. There's probably a thousand of these kind of documents. And it would be important to gather them in one place and it would be important to process them completely impartially. So with one scientific... Every, every, every political interpretation that would be day-to-day political, or party-to-party would be harmful. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The worst part is that the building is still forming. It's still building. Here we are, having a retrial of the Oak Court where witnesses will appear who will re-prove. And their testimony and their court statements will be part of the building for this Memorial center. Scientists who will process this will have to take these testimonies as authentic especially if the court declares them authentic. If he accepts them as evidence. It'll happen again and the trial will be... because the first-degree verdict was lifted. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in that trial, there will be a re-enactment. And that's why I think the argument of the Lord is right, I'm going to say idealistically, so I don't say it wrong in relation to The Hague. Because the Hague indictments and arguments of the verdicts are also construction. And they'll have to be dealt with by scientists at the Memorial Center. To think the Memorial Center would affect the Hague indictments, idealistically. Just the other way around. Just the other way around. The memorial center will process these charges and the verdicts as construction. Like the documents of one trial and one time. However, this Memorial center can do something else, useful. In all trials, whether in The Hague or domestic or, that is, that this building which is now scattered collects for the purpose of proof. And there, that, it can do and it would be good if it had been done so far. A small example, not a small, large example of Mr. Blaskovic. As we know, the second-degree verdict is significantly smaller, significantly smaller, and has allowed man to leave immediately after the second-degree court received additional construction that was not in the first-degree trial. Somewhere in the building is Blaskic's diary he was talking about. His private, own war log that was taken from him the day he surrendered. But it wasn't taken by the Hague court. If his journal had been on the first-degree council, perhaps even a first-degree verdict would not have been so. But both that diary and the fact that it's been taken away, it'll all be built. I do not agree with the provision of Article 6. HSP's proposal that the Centre report on the results of its work by the Croatian Parliament at least one year. You see, gentlemen, the rightful Parliament is a political body. He makes political judgments and makes political decisions. And this is science. And this reminds me, we have a negative example, and that's the so-called Vukojevic. A committee that knows what kind of disputes it's caused. Why? Because politicians started playing scientist. And then they made political conclusions instead of letting it go to scientists. And it would not be good for politicians to judge whether any scientific conclusion is correct or incorrect. I therefore prefer what the government has done to professionally monitor the archives, and in, supervision of the legality of the work to be carried out by the Ministry because someone has to do so. And that report to the government, which I think would only be a technical report in a business sense. What was the money spent in, what was made, what books were published? What's been done in the past year? But not in terms of quality control and work expertise. Because it has to belong to science. If we make such provisions until the second reading, then I think we're on the right track, but then we're giving everyone a clear message as to what we want that documentation centre to be. So it will be at the same time a place where it will be gathered and farmed. To be one monument, to be one museum. Yes, in the end, we have, in the end, an institution that will handle this area of modern history in the best quality way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20947	Thank you. We have a few corrections to an incorrect quote. Here's Mr. Joseph Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20948	Mr. Vice President, I will correct Mr. Stazic's incorrect claim that he has again vigorously claimed that there is no important, that there is almost no reason between these two draft laws. So I'll repeat since you probably didn't hear that the fundamental and important difference between these two law proposals was in the form of a center. Which means it's a specialized archive that puts the center in a position so that it can ask under the second law all documentation from state institutions that is MORH, which is the MUP and everything else. And that's, that's the important difference between these two laws that we're talking about today. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20949	Thank you. Correction of Mrs. Maria Byte's incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In one part of the incorrect allegations, I would stop at just that, we are all here for the accuracy and truth of this law, and the colleague is again trying to distort some facts, so the commission established in this Croatian Assembly in 1990 and lasted until 2000, and this is the Commission for the Determination of War and War II and Pores, a colleague persistently called Vukojevic's Commission, which is incorrect. And yet this commission, he says, has dealt with political cases of some kind, not that commission is likely not in the interest of a certain number but has namedly listed any victim that could have been obtained from the data collected by name. Unlike those books that were where we looked at the names of people from different parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20951	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote, Mr. Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20952	Your Honor, Mr. President, I would like to correct Mr. Honorable Representative Szazic's allegations. I'll try again. The idealistic view is that the documenting centre will influence the trial in The Hague or in the assembly of Hague indictments. I think it's completely wrong, it's true if we don't have what we're talking about here, and we're already late as the predecessors said. Until then, the main building around The Hague indictments will be obtained from Sava Strbac and his Belgrade veritas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20953	Thank you very much. Gentlemen, like this. The remarks that Mr. Stazic made such and such statements and comments are not prohibited, I even noticed that he gave instructions and suggestions to the Hague court and courts to work. Perhaps the courts will respect Mr. Stazic's opinion. And it's good to hear something like that here in the conference room. That's why he has the right to his own opinion and the way he thinks and I think more than Mr. Djakic specifically stated something exactly remained the same opinions. But how we tolerate correcting opinions. Then what I can do is let that opinion come out. That would be my comment on this. And now we're crossing. I have the right to comment, especially when you've been giving advice to the Hague court and that a final verdict must be established as true which is not true. But you have the right to think that, so I have the right to comment on this. I've been commenting on the corrections of incorrect allegations. Yes, I commented on the correction of incorrect allegations and gave Mr. Stazic the right to advise the Hague court and courts on how he would work. You're dropping the level of debate because you haven't responded to how Mr. Stazic is systematically moving away from the agenda and giving everyone lessons. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Well, if you were doing it from your club, then it wouldn't be necessary from the President's desk to say anything. Mr. Kovacevic, what did you want? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20954	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I'd just like to look back on the debate that I'm personally happy about as much as we are at the HSP Club, because I'm going to this one community to form such an important facility as the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Center. And I think that, in that sense, we should continue to talk in this sense about being together to come up with a quality predicate for a long reading that we're all going to be serving. And I'm glad that here are the gentlemen of the SDSS who support it by saying one important thing. He says sir, it's not good that it's a party proposal. Well, in order for there to be a debate at all if my representatives and clubs had no right to overrun the laws. So the Rules of Procedure rightly states that one way and then the government joined the project. A name, of course, that's an important memory. Of course it's an important memory. That's why the name is Memorial Documentation Center because two important things are connected, memory is the memory, documentary scientific research gathering and all other important things, and now we come to what Mr. Stazic is, it's not an idealistic approach, Mr. Stazic. In order for people to defend themselves in The Hague in order to promote the truth of the Homeland War, to be able to lobby then it takes all the building means both the registration and the archival gathering in one place, the scientific work, and a documented witness to the true of the Homeland War. If this Israel had had the Homeland War I tell you, that would have already been studied all phases of all operations, all stages and this would have been published and translated into all languages and all parliaments addressed. As well as Chinese and Albanian and Serbia-Montenegro and the United States. That's how you lobby. Unfortunately, it has to be lobbyed to get the truth. And how to lobby, lobby with arguments, arguments, evidence with truth. 'Cause look out there was a lot of words Mr. Letica was saying, the truth is the truth is there's no truth to this or those. The truth can only be one. And how to get to the truth rather than knowingly catch up, work it out. So that's what it's all about, and that's how we get to what we all want. Mr. Vujic himself said that he supports this part that the Parliament is also reporting to Mr. Stazic, he spoke on behalf of your club. And we support it. We wouldn't enter a parliamentary debate about giving it to political qualifications. It's whether the center revived if it started working, what it does, what documentation. Normally, we as politicians shouldn't interfere. And that's why it's important that part is out of party science, that what's being processed is scientific and no one can take it down. That's what it's all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20955	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Representative Zdravko Sočković answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20956	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Croatian government. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War brought by the club of HSP representatives on 19 April and the Croatian Government by its act on 30 June 2004. We therefore have two similar proposals from the Member States which are visible that both promoters have outlined the basic reasons that they have raised from the proposed establishment of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Promoting the truth about the Homeland War, systhematizing and processing of historical military and scientific buildings, and establishing an information system for interested citizens of institutions are important elements of this future law. As I come from the Posavina County of Posavina, which suffered great human and material casualties in the Homeland War, this bill of law has great support. The Posavina County of Posavina, to remind you, had 539 dead Croatian defenders. 2087 Croatian wartime wartime disabled. And 164 killed a civilian of 24 children. I certainly feel the need to participate in this debate, and support this great idea of establishing the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. The difference between the bill tabled by the HSP advocate club and the bill tabled by the Croatian Government has. They shall be primarily examined in the bodies to which the annual report is submitted. In the manner of selecting the Director of the Centre, in defining the duties of the Administrative Council of the Centre. I would say that the biggest difference between these two proposals is that according to the Government's proposal, the centre is established as a public institution, a specialized archive which puts it in a position to take over all available buildings in one place from the state bodies under the necessary law, the Archive Act. The tasks of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War will certainly be great to put forth a lot of effort, to gather all the citizens about the Homeland War, which unfortunately lies everywhere, and first often and privately with many citizens. The fair fight of the Croatian people and all citizens of the Republic of Croatia for Croatia's independence through the Homeland War, the great sacrifices that we have earned certainly are one center that would primarily be to promote the truth about the Homeland War, but also the pledge of future generations when they will learn the truth about the creation of the Croatian state and the truth about the Homeland War. In this way, we will make it impossible for all those who are trying to change the truth, but also to change history by talking about a joint criminal enterprise by ignoring all the sufferings and sacrifices in the Homeland War, trying to even the aggressor and the victim and even more so, to show the victim as an aggressor in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina. Personally, I believe that both proposals are good and HSP and the Government's proposal and that a good Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War will be managed from one and the other proposals which should certainly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20957	Thank you very much. Now we'd end the morning session. The session will continue at 15.00 hours and pleasant. The first would be Mr. Kajo Bucan, then Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec, Josip Leko, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20958	Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20959	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Victims of Vukovar, Skabrnje, Bor's settlements, Gospić, Celija and other towns of settlements, villages, 12 thousand killed, 100,000 expelled, many mutilated and unhappy, destroyed childhoods, careers, dreams going into unknown uncertainty, can list by the end of this term certain me for discussion but I certainly will not succeed in the time I have made nor the guilty blood balance of the Homeland War. But life itself, and especially life in war conditions, is unimaginable without sacrifice. Every decision, every choice of giving up something. And how in every new life period, a man must give up his past because of a new one, in a war these denials are particularly pronounced. Here we put emphasis not on what we lose but on what we gain. This was done by Croatian defenders, the emphasis is on the greater value that stands before us as a goal, and we need to know how to value the sacrifices that are built in for our sake. To deal with all due respect, according to each historical event is an obligation for each of us individually, and since the victims of this historic event are given for the common good, this knowledge obliges us to behave responsibly, to preserve the truth and to promote the liberation and defence of the Homeland War. On the other hand, a whole series of military operations, their systematic planning, preparation, objectives and implementation are part of team activities that need to be documented and archived in one place and in a professional manner and the archive itself should be the basis for future scientific and research, information and expertise and analysis. The Declaration of Homeland War adopted in the Croatian Parliament, adopted and to stop the radical politicisation of the Homeland War, and for stopping the polarisation of the Croatian Society and primarily for the protection of its dignity as unquestionable values of an independent Croatian state, will be one of the fundamental documents, which will be scattered and unsystematised along with all other available buildings. By entering an informed archive system, be properly presentable and accessible to all interested parties. In this way, we will make it possible, among other things, for generations that come to leave evidence and a lasting mention of love and respect for all the wounded, the disabled, a worthy mention of our tragedies and glorious battles, human approach to refugees and exiles, and in peace and freedom with the greatest reach of human intellectual and historical honesty, to show a duty to drink to the dead but also to thank those who planned and designed, and to spend in the work a centuries-old dream, independent and free Croatia. And not only that, it's the best way for everyone so wherever they come from for whatever reason they're doing it, to know the Homeland War more or less, to their dare tell the impression or truth to answer the justified and reasoned professionally and documented. I therefore join all those who participated in this initiative, the legislators, and all those who wish to win the defensive and legitimate Homeland War a scientific, historical, professional, evaluation in institutional form and support these bill proposals. Let us not forget our history and especially that part of which we have been living witnesses and all that we have created for years because some need to change the past in order to achieve their goals in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20960	Thank you. Dear representative Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20961	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I am pleased to have the opportunity to discuss two of these laws, not of course entering into reasons and circumstances, a climate that has so far ruled over which such an institution does not already exist. I believe that through these months, as the Minister has said and passed the Law that will finally lead to the place, institution, people and projects that will contribute to the fact that the Homeland War, everything that preceded the Homeland War, and its victory ending of course, has been made historic, human, social and in every other way valorised. We must be aware that this was a very atypical course of events, that this was not just one war consisting of military operations because although some military breakdowns through the MOTH system have been systematically done so far, no one has systematically said what was going on in the civil sector, this war started with preparations and balvanies in the 90th and lasted for a full 8 years in different areas and took place in all pores of the Croatian state and in places and areas that did not have direct military operations. Now, I come from the Koprivnica-Crysing County when everyone has pointed out speaking about general and individual, of course, that it's inexplicably tied together, so I'm looking forward to having this Center, and then I'm going to talk about the concrete law, so I'm going to say what kind of shape it should have, which this Center and the contribution of the wider Crossing Area of Homeland War is probably going to put in the right place, because we have to be aware that the truth is one, and the picture of historical events that is created through different media is often a little different, so I'm not going to talk about the system of twisted mirrors, but I'm going to say that something that happened and it wasn't on TV, it wasn't so many times in the newspaper as it happened. So I would just like to remind you that I am proud that last week we celebrated just the 13th anniversary of the liberation of Croatia's wider area than the former army where it is, of course, through the coordination of the Crisis Headquarters which I had the historic happiness of leading those days, where it made the population of the civilian town of Križevci. So I can't remember that unity of all Croatian people in those days who were united on the idea of being free, being alone on their own, the masters of what was historically theirs. With that, unfortunately, thoughts, and the dead to be remembered with piety, pride, but with a great commitment to remember. So we are here that, instead of them, they are in a way God's will and everything that has happened, we are obliged to continue in their name and create in this country such conditions as they have given their lives, and I will not talk about those great spiritual wounds, those material wounds that still exist and that we will still have to solve in the coming decades, so the war operationally on the battlefield is over but we continue the war for a better and worthy life and the true story of the Croatian Homeland War from 90th to today and through this Center. So let me maybe say a few words about this Government proposal. I agree, I support the proposal of my colleague, Cosic, has the form of an institute that, according to the Law on Scientific Activity, provides certain categories of behaviour, however, I would certainly like to have two adjectives in his title, to be an adjective of "State" and to be an adjective of "Croatian", so that it should be the Croatian State Institute for documentation on the Homeland War, I have more reasons for which I do not have to elaborate now, so I hope that the proposer will accept it for the next proposal to come in the form of a second reading in the form of a final proposal. I would also insist that, in any way, all of us, and I listened to colleagues who were active, have the original documents of those who had not been made public or in the possession of others, I have those, too, and I have very important reasons why I kept them. I will be very pleased to have them available, but in some other way it will be incorporated into the provisions of this Law as a duty and obligation. Just as, of course, all those who already through their institutions today have a duty, these are already other laws, which they have happily regulated, may not be a waste to stress, to make available to the people of this center or institute as it will be called for further processing. I would just like, therefore, more than the historical method of research on desk desk documents, to be particularly in this center, the institute or whatever it is called, to develop the expressive primary method of surveying living participants on the ground because there are many things that have turned the course of the war in a positive way in general contributed to the excellent victory of the Croatian state, the release of territories and not through official documents might have been written because, at that time, we were all engaged in a real life that often exceeded or went much ahead of the normative acts, so we came to certain weapons and tools, I repeat, so we were in Križevci on 16 September 91, and of course we couldn't have as much as wanted to book everything alive as we did for days later, and were publishing in other areas of Croatia where we were missing weapons that weapon. Therefore, in this sense, I think that there is still a lot of work for all of us, and I am unusually glad that this centre will probably not only contribute to the scientific, drying of the systematic archiving, cataloging and ranking of documents and describing events, but it will probably help to create a positive climate in which the Croatian soldier will be honorably again, and they remember the catastrophic statistics that say that this year and the last 10,000 young people do not want to go to the Croatian army, so that abuse of the Civil Service Institute to say so would have to be changed so that he will be one again as he is 91, so that a single Croatian youth has a conscience and does not want to go to the Croatian Army. And I would be glad to see that, reading today in one window in Jurisic's shirt taught it to be Croat, so I'm proud to be Croat or it's honorable to be Croat, each of us says I'm proud to be a country fighter, I'm proud to live in Croatia that had such a war that had the strength and will and the fighters but also all the people who were unique at the time. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20962	Correction. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20963	A colleague of Trakostanec said that many young people abuse the use of the right to civil service of a military term, therefore, it is not a Serb, it is the use of legal opportunities and it is a special story we can talk about but it seems not within this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20964	Dear Representative Joseph Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20965	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State and colleagues and colleagues. I have to say when I applied for a debate on this subject the first time I thought I shouldn't talk pathetically about it, it's the easiest approach but it doesn't help, it doesn't help. Of course I support the establishment of the Croatian and Memorial and documentation centre of the Homeland War, but at the same time I wonder, and I can't understand how no at least documentation centre has been established so far. What forces of the unknown have affected me that such a significant one is very important for the future, an important job has not been organised so far. Unfortunately for us, there are no answers. Now something a little pathetic but very real. The other day I'm watching a unit lineup from II. World War I in Normandy, Allies. In a certain way, I am involved in this, and at the same time I wonder how the units from the Homeland, the Liberation Fair War are not lined up in the Republic of Croatia or at least not doing it, it is not organised. I've asked some participants of these Vukovar defense units, I wouldn't even say it publicly, but they keep saying they can't do it at all. If, as an impression, I just look at the debate still being held, the debate is still being held, or the question of who is everything and what kind of a participant of the Homeland War, then the question of why it hasn't already been resolved is again raised. In the context of an acute and up-to-date trial at the International Court in The Hague and the indictment also raises the question why the Documentation Centre was not established. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a subject of supranational, supergenerational, I don't even think it's important for the Croats only to establish and evaluate all historical circumstances and facts but even generally for generations that come, because size and I hope that indisputable between us and the purity of the Homeland War can be historical teachers, can be historical teachers but this requires excluding the day-to-day research policy. This requires a truly maximum responsibility, professional and scientific standards based business subtly conclusion so that it is a lesson for generations to come, not to disturb the peace and perspective of the country and people, so it will respond to the task it is intended for it by this act that comes from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is the first reading, and this material even requires a broader discussion than a debate within the Parliament. Why are they having a wide discussion? Well, you'll let us, with all our good intentions, with great desire and effort, we're politicians, we're colored, we want it or we don't want politics. And when we take a rational and reasonable look at this, I really should be in the interest of repeating the future without day-to-day political confrontations and conflicts. Perhaps it should be pointed out in particular that in the world of events, current events related to The Hague try to explore and find, determine and assess the role of the individual, where and where he was in the Homeland War. Perhaps a serious scientific approach will give right to those who have different attitudes than they are today officially. In the end, because there is no need to support the establishment of a institute like this, a center, I must say that historical truths do not tolerate dictatorships. Anyone or anything. And time is certainly the best judge in history. I hope that it will benefit our efforts and that generations will benefit from studying the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20966	Thank you very much. It is Mr. Frano Matušić's turn. What about Peter Mlinaric? Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20967	Sir, Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting Mr. Lek's incorrect allegations that the Homeland War units are lined up on their anniversary. Just on Saturday, legendary 204. The Vukovar brigade I was a member of is proud to mark the 13th anniversary of the founding, so I call upon all those who may come to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20968	Thank you very much, but it's not a correction, it's a finding. [[The intruders don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20969	No, Mr. Leco said we're not marking ourselves, To mark the anniversary of World War I... [[- Okay. - Okay.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20970	Okay. That's an opinion you don't agree with. It's all right. But how tolerated we are for this kind of correction, then we move on, right? ... Okay. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's Mr. Frano Matusic. Mr. Frano Matušić. He's gone? Mrs. Katarina Fuchek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20971	Mr. Vice-President, in my debate, I would like to join the support which is of the largest and I can say from the almost absolute majority of MPs who participated in their debate on the day of this or these proposals of the law in which one of the main issues of the Croatian state will be addressed on this issue, which is the collection, archiving and quality, professional and scientific processing of buildings from the Homeland War area. We also witness that this problem, the problem seen back 10, 15 years. Of each event that occurred, there were certainly certain traces or individual witnesses and that people were self-initiated in creating their own archives in the way they knew and did, that they collected professionally, unprofessionally but collected, however what was missing, which is to be quality collected in one place and make it available to all those who needed it regardless of why they needed it. Do they need for one, for some scientific determination, for some reconstruction of events, but that the Croatian state as a sovereign state must have it. In view of the times and circumstances in which it was created and the way the Homeland War was created. At this point, I might also like to express a different view of the facts and associations that arouse certain sentences or individual words, individual names of individual situations or cities. For example, if we go back to the time of the Homeland War, if we mention the Kostanica, we certainly have certain images being created. If we mention Varazda's release of the military, we must be making other images. If we mention Gospić, we also have other pictures. Vukovar, special discomfort. They're different pictures. Why? Because it is to weigh part of these difficult, painful moments taken by audio-visual material which is largely stored in the archives of Croatian television and which has not been processed, which is not classified but also something that is particularly important, which is recorded on one technique which, now, VHS, which, after 10, 15 years now, is running out of time. So for a certain time, the footage will be unreadable. And then what? So how do we reconstruct the events? It is also one of the important, important moments to be taken into account recently. To put on another medium those images, those situations that marked one time and with which we each participated in our own way in the creation of history. I support the thinking, idea or solution of making a different version in one name, which will distinguish this institution as a serious, scientific, professionally based on the need from, from the need to mark individual, place of special battles, individual difficult situations that have marked a particular place of our own and in which our people participated by creating history or creating a Croatian state. If we look at a little bit more life, it's a great interest for people to go to Vukovar. There's a school field trip going on. They're children who were born then. They there need to get quality information which was, where was, how was it, why was it? Is there a great interest in other pensioners' associations, foreign tourists, to see what happened in Vukovar? What was the defense of Sibenik, Zadar, Miss? How are we going to mark that? Here I want to distinguish the marking of individual special historical sites which are significant meanings for the creation of the Croatian state from the institute itself, the institution that will collect documentation, archive, scientific processing and so on. We know from world experience that there is a holocaust, there are memorial centers, meaning that were once concentration camps that were once on the UNESCO Cultural Monument Protection List. They've been visited by, let's say, Auschwitz so far, 25 million people. 25 million people. Also to Hiroshima, who has been visited by 9 million people so far. Special battles, Waterloo or other things we didn't just learn about in history, but also in being published. They were written about, discussed, and thus presented the truth. In this way something was experienced and perceived, and this was what was in some way cultural heritage. That's what we have to think about. I want to support the idea that all of our important things that we are talking about right now with a special feeling and we are getting back terrible images and it's hard to keep the pathetics from being marked in the administration in such an appropriate quality way that quality information can also be obtained. And not for tomorrow and for the generation of our children who still have to learn from those people who are alive, and from the witnesses of the time to mark that time with a few monuments. In place and it'll be scattered. Because people cannot come to Zagreb and inform themselves about what happened in Vukovar. They have to come to Vukovar it's a real living image of the tragedy. That's why we need to preserve those buildings that are left like that, to witness time. And all those situations that will speak more than perhaps of someone's interpretation. This is if I have in some way contributed to thinking in this way and that in the name of an institution this distinction is made to be an institute, and memorial centers can be either in branches in places that should be marked in dignity, quality and in any case promote the truth about these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20972	Thank you very much. Next up, Madam Representative Jagoda Matincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20973	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I would talk about a segment that, in my opinion and in the opinion of a large part of the cultural public, belongs to this topic of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and, if you may at first consider it to be less important than any of these reasons and arguments we have talked about so far. It is about culture and cultural activity achieved during the Homeland War. In World War II, one great French composer Oliver... He wrote a quartet and called it the end of time. He wrote it in a Nazi camp, gathered his colleagues around him, so to speak, trapped in that same camp, he formed an ensemble with them and brought it to thousands of other rivals. [[You don't understand.]] This composition became a cult song as a result of its value and quality in the 20th century, so to speak. But she did mark the end of a time in memory of all those generations that came to concerts at a peaceful time, after the II of the World War and listened to that song as a special inspirational work that may not have had such an artistic effect but had an undisputed emotional effect. And it was created in terrible conditions. I only mentioned it as an example because at the time of the Homeland War, the husbands didn't keep quiet, as you know. The poets, the writers, the painters, the actors, the rockers, the serious ones acted. Everything that belonged to culture to true culture, it all worked. I remember a concert here at Upper Town at the SV church. Mark Mozart's streams where the Philharmonic came under a lot of difficult circumstances were constant alarms, instruments were very expensive but no one thought to cancel and in the middle of the symbolic phrase Lakrimose the alarm rang, we all split up, but it remained as one moment of such an emotional charge as it was rarely felt at any serious concert. What I mean. A lot has been done, and in reproduction production. We know that the entire theatre families went to the front lines of the battlefield. They staged plays, supported the morale of the fighters were both serious and shorter plays, but according to conditions. However, all of this remained scattered somewhere, written somewhere by some articles, some newspapers, and actually nowhere recorded anywhere systematically. I'm not saying that everything written and inspired by the Homeland War is worth it. That time will show that critics and theatrelogists or musicians will once say theirs. But in order for all of this to be created, in some way, audio and video and DVDs or in any other way, it also needs to be collected to be available for future research. Because it will also confirm a kind of memory. In this case of cultural memory, I think it's important. And that's why it seems to me that somewhere someone has made a suggestion that something could be found in the name of this center that would signify multimedia. This multimedia could perhaps be manifested in this way, so that, according to the model in the world, Berlin has this in its museums, depicting both audio and video records. To gather all these powerful songs like those of popular character from the Homeland War to very valuable works that we even sent abroad. I will now mention the Croatian Glagolitic Regiment of the distinguished composer Igor Kuljeric, who is directly inspired by the Homeland War, and the Croatian tradition. So it may be one way to concentrate and enable young musicians, theatrelogists, literature, anyone who wants to investigate, or anyone who wants to show it to someone. Because this way by looking for a single documentary on TV, looking for a single audio recording on Croatian Radio or on some other radio. It's all it's afraid I'm going into oblivion. And I think memory is very important precisely in culture because it will remain for many future generations as a testimony to the very one spirit of a special spirit in us, which has not fallen and when bombs fell when it was the worst. After all, I may mention, along with the artist I mentioned as the composer of the Messiah, only Picasso Guernik, who also witnessed not only his great art, but the testimony of a time of war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20974	Thank you very much, Mrs. Jagoda Matincevic. Now, here's a word from Mr. Representative Davorko Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20975	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are listening to today these proposings of our own, and the debate they've been having is evident that no one has questioned the need for the establishment of one of these centers. But also the fact that we were dissonant in our discussions. Obviously because there are different expectations from one of these centers from one of these institutions. And probably because there are differences in opinion what this center should actually do, what it does. My colleague Leko said you should avoid pathetics. I personally have an understanding of pathetics when it comes to the Homeland War, and these memories of the reminisce that individuals have shown here, and even of the references to the documents that we have each in our own personal archives, talk about how difficult it is, in fact, extremely objective to talk about issues related to the Homeland War. This objectivity is so difficult that even after this war, as well as after all the wars, something is happening that is almost legal, that instead of fictitious, truths are actually creating myths and these myths are beginning to figure out as historical truths. They intercede, sometimes with oral surrender, they become components of collective consciousness, collective memory, and slowly forgets actually fall into situations based on facts and truth. I think that as generations that participated in the Homeland War, we are truly mandatory to the generations that come after us to leave this enormously potentially valuable and historic structure, to leave it scientifically processed for generations that come behind us, in a professional, scientific and non-lethal way. The sooner and the more myths about the Homeland War, the more often we have a colope of lies, incredible simplifications, dangerous oblivion, so I would say all these years and subject to a very primitive political abuse. These myths are often produced to contaminate what is negative and what is blackest, and it is related to the Homeland War. It occurred to me that it would be interesting to do research and catch people and ask them what their first association is about the Homeland War. I almost dare predict the results of such research. It would be concepts such as: The Hague, War Crimes, War Profits, Unfeeling Expectations, PTSD, Injustice, Disrespect for Human Rights, etc. And indeed wars are not some idyllic times, for neither death nor killing, nor arson, nor persecution, fear that is dominantly associated with war are therefore not, something which would be abnormally bound to war. But also, contrary to all that in wars, there are those who bravely oppose it all, and therefore, murder, and arson, and persecution, those who give themselves honestly, human and unreservedly, so that we can say that the times of wars are at the same time and the times of the highest moral rises of individuals and societies, and I would say that this is precisely the concentrated evil and hatred that wage wars can mobilize the most moral potentials of a community. And our Homeland War was indeed such a time and I'm not surprised that one of my comrades recently told me when we talked about the Homeland War, talked about the good old days. So I ask, what the hell was so good about it, what's good about those times? Well, that's exactly what it seems to me that as a society, we've become a community, that we're based on common values of freedom, as the ultimate ideal, that we've made our significance known as humans, as individuals, our presence in time and our responsibility for the community, and it seems to me that we were then really, rather than just living. And historical evidence of what was the Homeland War, as it was in the Homeland War, there is. There's a huge amount of paperwork about it that's been scattered by who knows what kind of places. And they're not myths, but there are a lot of other myths that are almost out of question. For example, one of the myths is that the war was won, for example, by generals, by President Tudjman, by Minister Sušak or by masked Rambe with cream. It's not entirely incorrect, of course, because they are, but the true winners of the Homeland War were those little people, those of my Jozek, Stef and Franz who came from their fields or ironworks, refineries and stood and defended their country. They're real and real, real heroes. The real heroes and those guys from here are from Trešnjevka, Dubrava or Trnje who only saw the cow in the zoo or on TV, who also found themselves on the front lines of the battlefield, and those nurses and those bakers who made us bread and blew it up on the front line of the battlefield. They're not history. They were left in some kind of privacy zone, personal memories, etc. And they're true winners, and it's terrible if they don't feel like winners. And I think that's the problem. I'm not going to talk about how this people actually self-organized themselves. In 91, they were driven, so in the hardest of times, without weapons, people were self-organizing. We didn't have any ministries or we had them, I have to say I got my first memo before Christmas 91 from the Department of Defense, and then I said, "The war is probably about to end." Also, outside of bribes equated with these historical actors, with political leadership, all those who did not put themselves into politics nor understood war as a state of ideological bickering are all those who did not dream of Banovina Croatia, nor Croatia to Drina, nor were they entangled by Jurom or Boban, nor were they inspired by them, nor were they guilty or responsible for human or inhuman migration, nor were they considered, for example, that urban Serbs were enemies, etc., nor were they guilty and responsible for those who robbed and burned, and some were. And that's why we need the Memorial Documentation Center to know everything about both these and those. And the Homeland War as this nation led it has a greatness in its very liberating and freeing being. I see my time is running out. I could still talk about myths. Because, let's say, the myth that was created to be defenders, for God's sake, a dangerous part of the population, it's probably the ones that kidnap children, which are drunk, bearded, drugged, etc. And that myth is being created. Or people who walk and seek for themselves some rights. That's not true, that's not true, but it can exist as a truth as long as we don't even know how many defense attorneys there have been. And that's why we also need a center like this, because it's stereotypes that have to be broken with truth and only truth. The defenders are no caste excluded from society, nor are they looking for it for themselves. So I stand by and support the idea of such a center, but I immediately warn of what others have warned. Let it not be a government project, let the Croatian Parliament stand behind the project, let definitely as an institution get away from politics or God give political or any kind of other abuse. Let's face it, and the bad side of it...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20976	Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20977	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20978	Thank you very much. Before he gets the word of a proposing representative, we have two replicas to correct the incorrect allegations. The replica was answered by Mr. Niko Rebic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20979	Here we were listening to an interesting interpretation of heroes in the Homeland War. But what particularly bothered me, which is that too often in this House and always on the side, is also about crimes in the Homeland War. I'd say it is, so it's not a product of any party or force in this House. One thinker, a poet of Vladika and a statesman who attacked Croatia, said first: "To do evil by defending this crime there is none." So no one here has told the media where the source is that there are no war crimes in the war. So this should correct these delusions that are often mentioned in this House, therefore, and where the same group often happens in the Homeland War in connection with crime. It was a liberating, just, true war, and to stand up to those whom they were raised in such an attack on Croatia should be just as cruel to defend their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20980	Here's Mr. Vidovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20981	I regret that once again, a respected colleague confirms the myth story. If that's how you divide the right and left again, then we don't need this center. No one's questioning in any way, so I think I've got enough of that. Well, my participation in that war would have prevented me from throwing the specks of doubt at that big, fair, fair Liberation War. But don't open a story that's even logically hard to accept, that there were no crimes and that there were no wrongs that follow all the wars in the world of history, so I guess this one and this one don't have a crime on the fighters of the Homeland War or on the habitat of that Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20982	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by Mr. Krunoslav Markovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20983	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the thing. I just wanted to do a little comment and replicate. Namely, after these sad pathetic words about colleagues from the Homeland War, Mr. Vidovic seemed to be afraid he said too well about the war, and then he had to talk about arson, robbery, murder, etc. things. So maybe another way of thinking would help better. If we all agree that Milosevic's approach to this war was fascist, then let's treat our defenders as anti-fascists. Now their problem is that they weren't communists yet because then tens of thousands of people could kill unpunished.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20984	Answer to the replica Mr. Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20985	I'd almost give up anything after this, and I'm not answering my colleague. I'm not answering my colleagues. But to question that there were murders in this country, robberies, arson, so we have hundreds of tombs where innocent people were killed. So what do you associate with when you talk about it? ... Killing and burning were made by enemies in this country for God's sake. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Do you deny crime against the Croatian people in this way? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20986	Thank you very much. Ms. Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20987	So I would correct Mr. Vidovic's incorrect claim because he said that people had to self-organize in 91s because the bodies of the state didn't work because he got the letter quote, from the Ministry of Defense and thought it was the end of the war. That's not true. So dear fellow and therefore it is evident that it takes such a center to remind you that at that time the government of the People's Unity was a very active state, that in July 91s it had appointed crisis headquarters and local communities, the provisions of national protection and every honor of every individual, but it had to be organised by someone, and that was the Croatian State and therefore through the provisions of national protection, crisis headquarters, through the reserve composition of the Ministry of Interior which was the first defence composition and through all other compositions in the Ministry of Defence and the main headquarters which was formed 91st, the state worked in a way that organized the people, and I remind you only that you were an active participant and then do not distort the historical facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20988	Thank you very much. It's nice when the people organize themselves, it's the same power of the people. Now the word has Mr. Ivan Bagaric. Here you go. Excuse me, please, on behalf of the promoter, Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20989	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vidovic, I'm really sorry that you haven't been at this session since the beginning today, that you've heard all the debates so far, all the debates have been going very well in this area to achieve unity here, to be something above the parties of all and to do something that is necessary for this country, to come scientifically and professionally to this whole problem. You should have listened to Mr. Pupovec, who said that in that very sense, and I don't know what this part of the myth is for you. We of the HSP Club certainly didn't want to create any myth but we wanted all of these to be built, and today we heard here and in the debate, that many MPs have registration material from the Homeland War, that it really should be put into one institution, means in the Croatian Memorial documentation centre of the Homeland War, that this is worth it and that finally our children, our grandchildren and great-grandkids knew the real truth about the Homeland War without politics but professionally, scientifically based on facts and the whole debate was so far in this course. And I'm really sorry that you weren't in all this right away. And also look, we have these paradoxes. Mrs. Jagoda said that nicely. Be careful that the truly cultural contribution and the artist in the war is undeniable, we also know that they had troops and everything else. But the sad fact is that their contribution is far more recorded so far in Croatia than the contributions of Croatian defenders who went to the defense of the homeland and look at Mr. Vidovic as to why he told you that he was better off at the time, because he lost his dignity in the meantime. Because in the meantime, he was declared to have been robbed, that he was doing this, that he was doing what we needed, and that's why we need him, so back from that, we go back to this part, to the scientific approach to process it all. I'll just tell you one example. Last year my daughter, eighth grade finished, now she's the first high school, had a Homeland War, had a Vukovar. The teacher asked who the legendary Vukovar doctors were, no one knew, except my Peter, she said that's dr. Juraj Njavro, and Dr. Vesna Bosanac, and that's why it takes scientific access to everything, all but look at the same situation we have a lot of situations, we've even been thinking about being the headquarters in Vukovar. First, it was our version of being in Vukovar, and I said it on the Committee, but we were afraid it wouldn't work, and so we said that part of the branch would be in Vukovar according to our proposal and all the initial areas where they were choir areas, choir seats, and for all areas such as Gospić, Dubrovnik, Vukovar and all other places that died in the Homeland War. So let's really give without these parts of the dispute, let's approach this work because, look at all this showing us again what we have to take account of special and representative of the Government, we've brought the Law in the Croatian Parliament a lot, we have a lot of good laws, but the problem of implementing these laws is, because of this already, compared with when we go to the final proposal, we have to take organisational measures to create conditions, to determine already before, will not be able to appoint a manager and everything else to do so 1. One, it's working. Because we're going to have a situation where we're going to have a law and it's not going to be implemented. And that would be an even worse situation. So we have to take care of it in parallel because I have a fear and all the other situations when we've legally established something, ideally, wonderfully, coherent but unfortunately we haven't done it in Croatia, and we shouldn't do it again here, or we have to do it in parallel, and I accept the suggestions of Mr. Honorable Representative Cosic and all of us, let's talk about it until the end, in the way we've talked, let's not argue about some things, let's not let the profession, let's do the history, let's do the part, let's lobby and let's not do it, and that's not what our grandchildren need to know, because the same defenders ask me, when my child asks me everything, and where you dad were at all, what your dad was doing, which is why we have to do it. So it's the truth without politicians, scientific, professional, well-founded, I guess that's where we all agree now and let's not go into the debate beyond that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20990	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ivan Bagarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I think that today a common constant of this debate comes from this debate and that's good and that's that we're actually talking about a law that needs to be based and that's going to get the power of knowledge. So, in addition to all the other powers that exist in the theory of power, I don't know from the position, etc., this hour the power of knowledge is something we have ahead of us and we need to use as a people, as a nation and as a state. When we talk about it, and in the context of the Homeland War, then that knowledge can be what we have applied and our experience in the management of refugees, it can certainly be knowledge of how we've conducted logistics, how we've conducted certain military operations, among other things, how we've taken care of the wounded. From this context, one drama that happened during the war is taught, such as the Vukovar Hospital or the death of all those wounded in that hospital, that we did what we had to do, and if the world had recognized it, then we could offer the world new knowledge, so we could infuse world knowledge with the experience of one war hospital and the environment, why couldn't we offer that in the case of the environment, no matter where, because if it had been adopted then Rwanda and similar things would not have happened, in which case the International Red Cross would, for instance, enter the hospital and the hospital would be... directly under the command of the United Nations and in that time, the biggest bandits would have killed the prisoners. Now the question is, how to put all this into knowledge, I think that this idea of setting up this center I'm going to say something concise about that I disagree with that name and I'm going to go to all those who have talked about the institute, etc., how to actually translate all that into real knowledge. So first it needs to be collected, it needs to be investigated, it needs to be analyzed, and then the hardest thing to write and publish comes. If something is not written and is not published but not among ourselves, we sometimes write from our own weaknesses some worthless books and spend money and thus prove that we have made our contribution. The only important contribution is an international publication in the International Journal in English. Why? Because scientific work is at that point in evidence and it's only then evidence. That's why I'm in a certain way separating myself from this previous way of discussing this Memorial-documentation centre and proposing to the government, this is probably a bit of a deviation but with the best intention of getting it out of the name Memorial at all. For what? So I don't think memorial and documentation should be tied to each other at all. Memory can be something that will stand at the disposal of, say, the Military Museum or the Memorial center of that opportunity itself, with that intention alone, there can be shown some documentary film, it can be informative of the nature of these and those, then there can also be exposed to the uniforms of the commander, let alone the defence of Vukovar, show the document of the Supreme Commander for the implementation of the Storm, etc. the release of the Knin, etc. And then it's something in the purpose of memory, in the sense of memory of that time, and precisely with the goal of not forgetting myself. On the other hand, when we talk about the documentation part then it only needs to be tied to scientific and only then makes sense differently he has no purpose at all. So I appeal that he does not really bear the name center and according to what Mr. Selem was saying and especially later Kreso Cosic to be actually an institution, an institution that will have everything that one institute has and I'm asking, I'm going to take a step further and I'm asking whether there's even a need to make such an institute, maybe even think about it, we have an Institute of History, wouldn't it be logical maybe, one department in the Institute of History to devote these materials to collecting them, valorizing them, etc. However, if we have already chosen to create a new institution then it should certainly be an institute that will have an exclusive scientific mission and no more than that, and this should be a memorial separation. So I would conclude this brief address on this subject because a lot is said so and so, we need this not only to forget for ourselves what we have done and what we have but to offer the world new knowledge. THE world improves its knowledge at humanitarian level, medical level at the end and at the level of war itself. I know that about 500 scientific articles are certainly published by at least 300 in English in internationally recognized magazines but by doctors. I don't know who published it here, Professor Letica was talking about a large number of published articles I'm afraid that's not the case. Finally, I would refer only to two MPs and their speeches, and in connection with this, Col. Stazic said that we will have to take into account those documents of the UN court's indictments and observe them and judgments, etc., that is what I agree and it stands. However, if we do the whole job then what Mr. Stazic was talking about, it's just a little cube in the mosaic. And if you pull that cube out of the world's most beautiful and greatest masterpieces, say artists from painting, then it can actually be ugly, but in itself it doesn't mean anything if you gave the answer to the whole. I would say to my colleagues, dear Vidovic, when he spoke of names and mentioned them in the context of myths, I do not know Gojko Šuška, Franjo Tudjman, and then I draw attention to the fact that Mr. Washington DE Gaulle did not float in the air, they are specific persons, but in the history of a nation they played a great role and the people raised them to the level of bribes because it is to the benefit of the people. I therefore maintain, in this context, that, if necessary, the level of bribery is also viewed by Franjo Tudjman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20992	Thank you very much. We have one replica, Professor. Peter Selem.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20993	Mr. President, Mr. President, my colleague, Bagaric, I understand your intentions perfectly, I just want one thing to be precise, which is that it would not be directed to separate memory, to separate the collection of material from the segments of scientific research. It is precisely this scientific research that can be done in the best possible way in one material and documentation, an archival, writing structure that has been collected there. So, I'm saying, I think these two segments of collection are building, which is actually an idea, an intensity, the intensity of the bill and its scientific evaluation and the processing that they have to be absolutely connected and that there's absolutely no need to separate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20994	Thank you very much. The answer to the line, Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20995	I fully accept, therefore, this thought of a respected professor because then, obviously wrongly, I interpreted my point of view when I thought of that memory, then I thought in the sense that, that this could be shown in a certain way purely for memory and that everything else that follows in collecting that in documentation and keeping documentation, the publication absolutely stands and therefore I totally agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20996	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Representative Damir Spanish.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20997	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I will talk here from some environment and allow me for the right to really tell many MPs about what happened in this past period that we are all discussing here because we need to read first of all what is the main goal, so in these proposed materials that I am now not reading them here, but I can also point out that here we should talk about, say, 630 million euros of direct damage in the area of the cities of Pakrafc and Lipik whose and I am the representative of the one in that first part and certainly beyond. I would especially like to point out here that today is not a good time to discuss everything, therefore, politically what has happened. However, it would be very good to say what was happening in these areas between 91 and 98 and specifically discuss it, but above all also to establish this memorial and I agree with the Institute, because it is also an institute proposal. But allow me for the right should be contacted by people who come from that area. Perhaps immediately for culture, Jagoda's colleague mentioned well but I will tell you that five days before the military redistribution action "Bleek" was a complete symphony, philharmonic, Zagreb Philharmonic Philharmonic at the head of Milan Horvat was in the dark and destroyed town of Pakrac and tried to help us live in such difficult conditions. So, I'm talking about a small segment and all the artists from Croatia came in this difficult period and encouraged us. But I also want colleagues who have spoken about myths and everything that has been said so far. We who live in these areas know very well that myths were not, we know that people died, not only domestic but also all other parts of Croatia, and that today on this topic should not be engaged in any political debate but rather rushed as in the article, one of the articles mentioned, hasty establishment and... to the center. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, we who live in these areas don't allow and I here as an agent want to warn my colleagues, we don't allow this way to discuss who Janko is, who is Marko. But we can also tell you, it has been very difficult for us to live in these areas, and I can also say, many international organisations have come from both New York and other centres of Europe and have followed very well what they do in these small cities. We are proud and jealous and do not allow any politicisation because we have implemented state policy, because we have led, we have been an instrument of Croatian state policy on a very difficult ground. The agreements and agreements were signed in Zagreb and we consistently implemented them. And we received commendation and thus the Croatian state. I am particularly pleased that, with the establishment of the centre, there will also be subcenters in the proposal, whether five or seven of them are certainly suggested to be one of them in Western Slavonia. I believe that enough funding this year and next year in the state budget will be provided to make these subcenters work too, because here I'm going to tell you one example, in Pakrac, you've read probably communes living Professors. Slavko Craci wrote two books about the war. His column goes out in "Croatian Letter", these are historical truths and facts that have been happening in our area. So he's already a good argument to establish this center where you can take countless data from his war log, but also historical facts. And for the end. I would like to point out once again that it is not easy to live in these areas and that there should be no use of such topics as this point of the agenda for political bickering because what is important and what is the purpose of setting it up, at least that is how we understand it, that is, to record, to explore everything that has been in the field of human suffering, direct, indirect, war damage, economic infrastructure, environmental, health, culture, education, but I stress interpersonal relations. It is easy to talk about we need this, we need what, someone will sign it, they should live in such environments from Vukovar, to Konaval and build this Croatia. So in any case, we welcome the decision, the proposal to set up this Memorial Documentation Center where we put everything inside, where we will write what happened in these areas because of a history that no one can twist or talk about myths but, above all, because of the future, because of our youngsters to keep it jealous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20998	Thank you very much. It's Mrs Zdenka Babic-Petricevic's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u20999	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if there are any people in this world whose history is not in the history of wars, especially when it comes to the Croatian people where we know the most about reality and the most famous facts. And this history of Croatian peoples history of wars has not started since 1990, not since 1941, it began since the century 7. Surely every nation writes its own history and is read only or read after 50 years. However, in my brief introduction, given the short time, I will present something and warn that with these two laws, which I hope after 20 days or a month as the Deputy Prime Minister himself said, one single law will be created on the basis of which a single Croatian institution or institute will create which will write what really happened in the Homeland War on our pride and on our satisfaction. I will return to the commission today called the Vukojevic Commission. She wasn't Vukojevic's commission. She was a board of the Croatian Parliament and the Law on the termination of the Law on the Determination of War and War Victims of World War II was passed. At the political verdicts of his colleagues then, Mr Stazic's special counterpart was abolished, the law was passed. It was established and the commission was abolished which recorded what we should write down because it is also part of Croatian history and Croatian generations. Our history must be written down the way it is. The Croatian people are proud of it and therefore also of World War II and World War II and of the Homeland War, and I will only mention it on the basis of the suspension of the commission and the adoption of the law on the initiative of the then ruling coalition, or the pardon of the SDP, especially Mr Stazic. After that, the Croatian Parliament reached one conclusion. The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to prepare and ensure, within 6 months, all necessary normative, legal, scientific and material assumptions for the work of the National Centre, institutes as a special institution or autonomous institution at the Croatian Institute of History, which would have established the Croatian Assembly instead of the previous commission to identify war and war victims of World War II with a fundamental task and not to quote tasks. From then to this day, nothing has happened and I hope that this government will count on the conclusion of the Croatian Parliament because the conclusion in the Croatian Parliament never gets old. So I'm gonna go back to these two suggestions. I support both of you. They are the same except for some legal norms that will surely become unique and I repeat what the Croatian people deserve when it comes to the Homeland War and its truth. Gentlemen in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian MPs, we must not be evaluators of Croatian history. There are and we will certainly bring a good legal basis for the institute that will record Croatian history as it was. A lot has been said here in the Croatian Parliament today. Surely we agree that the truth about the Croatian Homeland War must be recorded the way it is, but why we bring HSP several times and suggested that such a law be passed. We didn't do it. Today may be too late. It is not too late because today, at this very time when the truth about the Homeland War is threatened, threatened in different ways through the press, inscriptions, statements in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia has committed aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina, then the Croatian and Homeland War is called the civil war. It is threatened by some of the witnesses and also the first citizen of the Republic of Croatia. The truth about the Homeland War has been compromised in the stands not only in the homeland but in the world. By teaching, by writing lies about the Homeland War. The sale of documents in the markets in the country and outside the country. The truth has been questioned through many charges. The truth has been questioned through the sayings that the Republic of Croatia has carried out ethnic cleansing and that the documents on this truth are unfortunately scattered. That happened several times today. They're, they're not scattered if they're in the Department of Defense. If they are in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, if they are where they are and are, according to these documents, working under the laws of the Croatian State. If the documents on the Homeland War were under the Law on Archive materials and archives, and Article 20 of the Law in question was applied then what happened would not have happened. I'll just quote Article 20, paragraph 3, I repeat the law on archival material and archives. Archive and material containing data relating to defence, international relations and matters of national security, including those for maintaining order and peace and for the economic interests of the state, with more harmful consequences for national security or for the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. It is available after 50 years in Croatia after the Law of Declaration, on the protection of the confidentiality of information. We have several laws that we have often talked about in the Croatian Parliament, but they have been bypassing, protecting the secrecy of information both official military and state secrets. However, I hope so, and I am sure that by this Law that will go safely to each other's reading, we will stop this part of the description of the Homeland War as it was often in the Croatian people, in the country and beyond the borders of Croatia. But today, individuals, I do not speak as local patriots, spoke about the Homeland War of Pakrac, Vukovar, were mentioned but I hope that this institute will record what is necessary, which is the role of Croatian emigrants in defending the Croatian homeland, the role of the Croatian people in Bosnia and Herzegovina in defending the Croatian homeland. So let's remember in the fall of 1990, when the Croatian people in Herzegovina were naked in front of the Yugoslav People's Army tanks, and this institute will certainly note that Croatian people at the time of the embargo have done everything to ensure Croatian soldiers on the Croatian battlefield. They didn't want to go around the laws or the embargo or, or the Security Council Resolution. The laws of the country concerned were less important to them at some point than their responsibility to the defence of the Republic of Croatia. We must not and we hope that this institute will record something and that Croatian national minorities, members of Croatian national minorities, have certainly played a major role in the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia. We will not forget the same thing, here we are said that the Croatian people were human, that at some point we had a million exiles which from, exiles and expelled from their hearths from the Republic of Croatia and from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I remember well in the area where I was the Consulate General at the time I had 80,000 refugees and exiled from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. It never occurred to us that we were looking for what faith and nationality we belonged to, and that's why we got commendation from the Ministry of Interior in the Government of Stuttgart. But here today we mentioned the Declaration of the Homeland War. Why was the Homeland War Declaration brought in? It was precisely because it was questionable and they questioned the Homeland War as the true Homeland War. That's when I raised my hand for that declaration. But make sure I wasn't proud. I wasn't even a little proud, and I hope that's not what happened today. Today, a colleague from the CNS said that the documents had orders, that there were documents on how in the command of the eaten brigades of the Republic of Croatia there are the same documents, in individuals who have confessed here today. When this institute is founded that we'll be sure to raise all hands tomorrow At three o'clock, allow me the last sentence, then from both private archives and command will come all documents to the same place and make sure that all of our generations, when they read after 50 or 100 years, will be proud of it. [[Finish your co-workers.]] And finally. God and the future will punish us, if we escape from our truth in the Croatian Parliament, we do not pass the right law, on which the Institute of Truth of the Croatian Homeland War will be created, gentlemen of our own truth we never run away from and about others the truth is less important than our own. The Homeland War was true and I hope it will be written down as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21000	Thank you. You've extended a little bit, ma'am, but here you go. There's a replica, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21001	Ms Babić-Petricevic, the Commission for the Determination of War and War Victims II. The world's war was a parliamentary commission, but the whole public, according to its first president, called Vukojevic's commission, so I called her that in that Colloquial sense. More importantly, the Commission, in the only report it sent to the Assembly, and had to send it within four years of its existence, should send four, found that it was in Croatia in II. The world war has killed 124 Jews. Therefore, the commission did not determine the victims of the war but rather dealt with the falsification of history and I therefore proposed that it be abolished and therefore the parliamentary majority made such a decision. But Mrs Babić-Petrichevic, you spoke about the Commission for five minutes in your presentation and the chairman who runs the session did not warn you that you had strayed from the topic because this Commission and the Commission's law on the abolition of this committee is not on the agenda today of this session of the Parliament. President-in-Office, Mrs Babić-Petricevic, I do not, either, commenting on your presentation, did not comment on your presentation, so he did not violate the Rules of Procedure as he did persistently when he commented on the presentation of other MPs instead of taking his place to discuss as any other representative, because Mrs Babić-Petricevic is only here a representative, vice president and changing the president leads the session but has no right to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21002	I have the right to comment by giving you a warning because you have qualified the Commission to deal with falsifying history. You are not responsible for any Commission of the Croatian Parliament, which was founded in the Croatian Parliament, to accuse you of falsifying history and for that reason I give you a warning. The reply to Mrs Babic-Petricevic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21003	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Stazic, I haven't spoken for five minutes about the Commission of the Croatian Parliament, I spoke for one minute and when it comes to truths II. The world war, if I had spoken for one second, would have seemed to have been spoken for an hour. That's one thing. Secondly, in the four years of its work, the Commission has done what it has done you have no right to say what you have said. And I only warned that it would happen by chance to this Law, here it is, Mr. Stazic, that this conclusion and this Law was adopted in Zagreb, the Croatian Parliament, on 28 May 2002 and that part of Croatian history must be true written for both us and for the sake of generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21004	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Mr. Ante Markov, please. What's the problem, Mr. Markov?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21005	Nowhere, nothing, thank you very much. It's all right, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder: Here she is before.]] So I'd take the opportunity to say something in this individual debate that I didn't say on behalf of the club when discussing these two laws. First of all, I think that this is an opportunity to take advantage of and teach what I said on behalf of the HSS Club, that these two proposals that came from the government and from the HSS Club should be considered and understood first and foremost in this first reading as one very good and serious basis for actually getting the second reading to agree on what the HSS Club is going to propose and this is that the promoters undertake to carry out consultations with all parliamentary parties in this Parliament in the final draft of the law. Why? So I think that the debates that took place during today speak in favor of the thesis that this Law would not have been in... either its contents or it would have received the effect to be achieved unless there was indeed a general consensus on this matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It truly does not have and must not have any observations of the day’s policy or of this or of that vision. Indeed, there is no reason for this and precisely the fact that the foundation of the Homeland War is the very foundation of the Constitution and statehood that Croatia has. I think it requires that this single step be made and that, at the time of the final draft of the law, try through the representatives, the representatives of the clubs find themselves in the text and provide a common consensus that should be served as a good platform for all the things that have been spoken about today. In this sense, the HSS Club will ask, when voting on this conclusion, which I believe is acceptable for all, which makes it very clear, that the Final Proposal of the Law be adopted jointly, that a particular working body be formed by representatives of all parliamentary parties who would take their part in writing the final text of the law. And I believe that in this way it would contribute not only to calming tension because this bill is not about calming tensions, it has primarily one huge role and a huge task especially on the international agenda. Especially in the expectation and creation of a new political climate in these areas, new relations between the forces that are in place, Croatia's entry into the European Union and all those processes that will be marked next decade. So it's also good that on a scientific basis, I said it on behalf of the club that we are firstly committed to being a club that we are primarily committed to being an institution within which all this is foreseen in this, these laws happen. I believe you'd... in this way, and if we were to really pass this law that would fully meet the needs of Croatia, on the other hand, in order to strengthen the Croatian negotiating position in both political and economic terms and if in some way it were an expression of the representatives of all the political options that sit in this House I believe that in this way it would achieve and that only then and only in this variant would it achieve that task and that role that I believe that the promoters and had when writing the first draft of the law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21006	Thank you. Honorable representative Ivo Banac.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21007	Your Honor, Mr. President, I have a constant feeling of discomfort over this discussion, professional, and somewhat associated with simple civil shrewdness. Connected to a whole series of facts for the last 15 years. There was a discussion here that reminded us of that Russian wit from lead times that goes about like this: “Others of the future is safe, but the past really isn’t.” This idea that we can change the past through some institutions and institutes I'm afraid is floating somewhere in the air although there were a number of important advocates for scientific research. But we must shed light on science from the collapse. And if we don't distinguish those two concepts, we're going to start instrumentalizing science, and it always ends very, very badly. I'd just like to warn you of some emphasis in this debate that concerns you. For example, counterpart Selem did notice that in one of the proposals it is not quite clear whether this proposed research institution is. If that's questionable, then we really can't talk about an institution that has a scientific character. Putting any institution in the function of promoting the truth is also very suspicious. The truth is wanted. It can, of course, be something to get to know the wider circle, but it is its own purpose. Science is its own purpose. She can't become something in the function of someone else, someone else, some other project. I'm afraid there are elements to the idology of science somewhere, and it's always dangerous. We cannot possess the truth “apriori”. We can only explore the truth, seek answers to complex historical situations, and always with that openness that is typical of scientific approach. We can't have pre-set thesis. Just from a methodological point of view, I'd like to warn you of one thesis that has been said here in countless variations. Namely, it's very bad, that the historical material is scattered. So listen, this is actually one aspect of storage current archivals. They must belong to various institutions to move to central archival institutions after a lifetime. And it would be very bad if we were to do what was typical of ideological regimes in some kind of documentation-gathering project. Many of you will remember an institution like the Institute for the History of the Workers' Movement, an institution that existed in every republic of the former Yugoslavia. What would happen here? You'd have tried to separate from the middle archives whole units that didn't by some logic belong to an institute that allegedly dealt with the history of the workers' movement. I've worked a lot in that facility in the '70s, I'd find, for example, archival units that have dealt with, say, civil parties. Well then you have the material of the Croatian peasant party and so on that by some logic it did not belong to such an institution. What happened after the collapse of such a system? All these archivals eventually returned to the Croatian State Archives. So let us not as hamsters collect materials that do not belong to institutions outside the regular scientific process, a regular scientific order. And in the end, I think it is extremely important that in every attempt to study the period of the early 90s, if you want the Homeland War, we are always aware that our duty is special if we want to calm down the passions that are still present, that we do everything to confront all our citizens in one objective way, in a way that does not romanticize history and that does not say in advance how we were, that we might sometimes want but which is one entirely different method of research. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21008	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Ivan Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21009	My dear colleague, allow me, allow me to correct you, to correct your incorrect claim when you say we want to change the past at the institute. Just the other way around. It is necessary to establish an institute in order to make all documents available and to prevent the counterfeiting of the past and for those documents to be made available to all. And another thing. You said it was questionable whether it was going to be a research institute, scientific. And I say and it's obvious if it won't be like that then there's no point in being. So he'll be like that and just like that... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21010	Well, colleague Bagaric, this first part of yours is a correction, this second part is a polemic one. Replica, Honorable Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21011	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Honorable Representative Banac offered me once with his idea of a replica that I think would be useful to continue this debate, just when he was talking about, in the context of the development of a very important institute such as the Institute for the History of the Workers' Movement of the former state. It took many years to come and therefore the state that was very powerful took many years to mature in this way to say in a scientific and research sense that one such institute could be launched. And now it's interesting that only when Mr. Francis Tudjman came to the head of that institute that he was actually on his way, but he took the opposite of the expectations of those who set him up. The Institute became critical and, let's say, the best work that Mr. Franjo Tudjman had ever written was just "The Contributions to the History of the Union of Communists of Croatia" which, when read in 68 years, carried out great importance, perhaps even to the formation of those thoughts that are very present today, and in our collegiate party, because in some ways, a serious history revision that adequately valorised what was good and what was bad earlier, so it is also one call to see that in different times comes to the truth and that no one who thinks they will form an institute in order to be propaganda to him can count on the institute to come out as propaganda. And that's why I once again plead, what I've already said several times, and I think that's a good one, to say a contribution in that sense, so strictly separate, I'm having the honor of speaking on behalf of the club about what we would like as a kind of promiscation of what we really want, which is, therefore, the truth, the facts, the building, the gathering, so all of what's most valuable in our history that founded this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21012	Dear Representative Zdravko Sočković. He's gone. He's losing his word on this agenda point. Dear Representative Antun Vujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21013	Thank you, Mr. President. A little while ago, there was a mix-up with my hand-over of the document. Maybe I could have said this right now. However, I am pleased that, after having had the opportunity and the honour to speak on behalf of the club, I may warn some of the elements that are related to this discussion, which in my opinion, regardless of the marginal distances, and even the fall outside, so to speak, the permitted space of useful debates, was nevertheless fundamentally and covered by our moral values and our best wishes to do the most to train one such institution which will certainly be in question if we approach it wrongly. I think the very useful idea given by Mr Ćosic in his presentation, saying on behalf of the HDZ Club, that, therefore, this institute, or the pardon center, was misusing the term of the institute, so I came after them, in a way to get one stronger support from the Parliament, which would be, of course, totally pluralistic and express what all parties are in the Assembly, unique, and that means that it would help to configure an institution that could then act in a way that they all described, and that is immeasurable, acting in accordance with scientific principles, in accordance with the Law on Archives, in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity, encouraging the truths in a way, in fact, analysing facts, acting in public space, acting and cooperating with scientific institutions, organising the activities of publishing etc., etc. However, it would be wrong to think, which I said earlier in the replica that it is possible to expect such an institution to now write a history that would be some kind of institutional history and what is allowed to think of the Homeland War. Every scientific research, not only literature, not only approaches that express our subjective views, but also in science are different schools, and in science there are resistances and we will never be able to reach such a kind of truth about the Homeland War that would be sacred. What is sacred to us is the Holy War itself. The world in the sense that it founded this Croatian state, but I underline for the first time on democratic principles and for the first time as completely sovereign, precisely on these democratic principles. So, we have nothing to fear about this, and we have nothing to fear from setting up this facility in a hasty fashion, so that eventually it doesn't satisfy the high ambitions that we're putting before it. That is why I hope that until the second reading will be adopted and discussed or at least responsible for those remarks and suggestions that we have made in our opening presentations. It is no wonder that there is now a consensus on the formation of such an institution. The past government, and as we saw and the previous government was aware of this problem and wanted to solve it among other things in the way that is here, I heard and with that to say other rows of benches, someone suggested, that within the existing institutes, research was stimulated and those works that would somehow contribute to what we now popularly call "the truth of the homeland war". And that's where it's headed. The results are not personally known to me, is it of course no research can be almost overnight, so there, we have heard one seven or eight people involved in the project, but it is not clearly published in terms of what the results have come to, but independent of that, it is necessary to have one such strong centre that in its base unites what is described in the bill, especially I am talking about a bill in the context of what the government has given and which would therefore serve permanently as one of the foundations of those research that we will need in the foreseeable future in order therefore to achieve a level of historical war in which the homeland war would become not only explored, but also in an adequate way an integral part of what the knowledge that develops our democratic consciousness and which develops our political and our state perspective in general. All countries have such centres and what I've pointed out before, and what I'm underlining, it's actually just one part of the job, the other part of the job is what I'd like to do as a memorial part, which is part of the creation of an adequate memorial related to the Homeland War, and what I've described earlier, as an initiative that has been launched at this point, and which may be at some point in some stagnation, so I'm using the opportunity to strongly try to tell here that, therefore, the matter of solving the monument issue of the homeland has already stood on one step which includes consensus and professional architectural and other circles and associations and one will, and even one principled project in which we should solve our overall relationship with what otherwise all countries have, indeed have, and these are monuments that are not monuments of victory, which are not monuments to the utopias, which are not being mentioned by this or by the fact, which all of our country, which we have, which we see in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, in fact, the fact, in fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, that the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, and the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the fact, the whole of which we have all of which we have all of all of which we have all of which we have all of the state, that we have all of the fact, that we have all of which we have all of the state and the state, the state and the state and the state and the state and the state of the state of the state of the state, the state, the state and the state, the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state, the state, the state of the state, the state of the state of the state of which we are In this regard, I call again and I call for the better part of the debate that was being held here, which was going towards finding common places, not towards seeking separation, according to demand, not according to the count of left, right, upper or lower benches, but towards the best that came from all sides and as ideas and that the sooner we start to establish such an institution, calling for a solution to the issue of relations with both the Parliament and the Government and at the same time, as I have recently had experience with several laws where we have formed relatively independent bodies and at the same time which will ensure the independence of the scientific, research, archival, etc. likes this facility. We can use science, archives, libraries as a state if they function on their values, not on political values, because if we send them the messages we need back, then we don't need those messages, we already have them. They therefore need to enrich our knowledge of the knowledge that comes past our messages, the intention of such or such ones. Social values are ours, we know which, but scientific values, research values, cultural values, values in themselves, and through this are social values, not through what politics tells them such or such a goal. So, those who have insisted, perhaps even unnecessary, but with seditions that are not quite irrelevant in view of our practice, the distinction between the propaganda aspect of this institution's justification and the scientific-researching, documentation, etc., I would also give the right to these others so that we know that in the extreme line and what we will achieve only if this second is the basis of that institution in the first place and in that sense I would ask that a number of objections be taken into account, and also concrete suggestions that we had on the very text of the law from the government that we are in principle supporting and that we hope to be able to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21014	Thank you very much. On behalf of the clubs, 5 minutes will be concluded, on behalf of the DC Club HSLS, Mr. Representative Frano Piploić. I haven't seen it, and I haven't noticed it, so if you can hold off on that replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21015	Mr Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. After such a many hours of long-term polemic discussion, we all point out that at the end of the second reading we will have to go with a unique document. The Homeland War would never have been if it hadn't been for the unity of the Croatian people, I think that provision would have been built on now to uniquely bring such a document, such a law, whether it would be called the Institute, whether it would be called the Centre, it is important that scientific and research methods come to the truth. We will easily get to the truth by exploring the structure that is in our possession that is only one part, however, we will have to contact and build on the other side, here it is about war. In war there are always two sides, at least two sides. Here, I'll take two, three examples practical. Recently, the book Battle for Vukovar came into my hands from Dark Marine, and I was able to read it myself, over 50% of the construction in that book are actually sources from General Staff from Belgrade, various units that occupied the area of Vukovar, eastern Slavonia, etc. However, by scientific methods Mr. Marinec showed there and proved some weaknesses of our units, there was desertion, etc. Perhaps such a form of truth may not suit some, however, it is the truth about the Croatian Homeland War, it is us. For surely there are those who earnestly desire to come to that truth. Perhaps if there were no comparison of one and the other documents, it might be more difficult to come to the truth, in any case, the truth is tormented, difficult, and we must all be prepared to accept that truth especially if scientific research methods and procedures are used. The second example is also owned by two documents as former President of the Executive Council of the Crisis Headquarters in Slavonski Brod. When we released the military ship in Slavonski Brod on September 15th, we released two ammunition warehouses, one in Bukovlje, the other in Vranovci, in Slavonski Brod. After completing the operation, I found a little bit thicker, and I began to read in it our interesting task, Predrag Tsvetic, the commander of the guard then wrote with his own hand that in so many hours the first class commander, Radislav Stojanović, issued an order to burn and blast the ammunition warehouse. If that young man had done so, he would have gone into the air of a Slavonic ship and certainly wouldn't have made his contribution to the Homeland War. Let's say for another example, that I also found one book, actually the work book of supporter Anna Michaels, who for a year recorded all the briefings, all the commands of everything that they were actually discussing in the military in Slavonski Brod, etc., and now, let's say by scientific analysis, you can come up with a comparative analysis of what was going on inside the military as one of the ambiences of an entity that was planning an attack on the citizens, and the town of Slavonski Brod, and on the other hand, we who were working in the local administration that we were doing at the time. I'm telling you, there are so many of these documents on all sides and the duty will surely be by this institution to consult all possible documents so that we can find out the real truth about ourselves. If we had documents that were checked, whose credibility is not likely to be questioned by many of our people who have been accused of crimes, they would not have been impugned to the cross and together with them by Croatia. Clearly, in... these documents you have the fakes, and who can recognize the counterfeit is the only one who's scientifically based. Therefore, to the very end, I advocate that we still have the measure to be mature and responsible and to bring this document together and by consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21016	Thank you very much. Five more minutes on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21017	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In the end, I decided to say a few words, and I did invite all parliamentary representatives to make the Law by consensus. Despite all this being said here today that there was somewhere and some discussions had also had a political sound which was not good, I was fortunate to be one of those participants who I was also a witness to the creation of some documents, at least one part. Many of these documents hide the great suffering behind them, the great sacrifices, the great courage, the great sacrifice, the great selflessness of our people. And if it hadn't been for that kind of approach, if it hadn't been for this community, we would never have saved Croatia or freed it. Remember the atmosphere 13 years ago at the time, what Croatia looked like, how we and what anxiety we lived with and the documents there that prove all this. How many differences do we have here in approach and in conversation and discussion when we talk about the Homeland War precisely because no real research has yet been made, which is not the right collection of all documents and to teach these documents, to study, to write the truth, we must write the truth and for the sake of ourselves who we have been, to live and participate in it, but primarily because of the state that many have questioned because of certain questionable things that are being talked about. This is also the reason for our children, that at school they are free to see and learn and read about what their ancestors have done and how they created the Croatian state. This is why we are obliged in the Croatian Parliament to bring such a document. So I call upon you to bring it by consensus let's bring it unanimously as we have brought the Declaration of the Homeland War and other important documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21018	Thank you very much, Mr. Capricorn. And does he want to take a word for it? Here you are on behalf of the promoter of the Club of Representatives of HSPa Mr. Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HSP Club, I would like to thank all the MPs who have actually made a lot of smart proposals today. And they also supported our bill and the government's bill of law. And I share what Mr. Jarnjak was saying, and we ourselves today in this assembly could hear, how many different registration and archival buildings are located in private hands, with representatives in the Croatian Parliament, among other individuals. If we had been arranged for a legal state, you would have been punished for it. Because we'd have to hand over the registration and archival structure. But the truth was not known to whom to surrender. There was no telling who to turn it in because there was no such institution. And that's why it's really high time to start this institute means a memorial documentation centre must be a moral memory, a documentary part of the scientific collection of research, dissipation, selection, and all that is needed in all other spheres. We have to be, and we are witnessing the fact that Mr. Jarnjak observed nicely, namely, some who arrived later in 92, 93, 94, and 95 did not match that documentation because they were not inside. Unfortunately, there are such vanitys. Documents from the Ministry of Defence, for example, plans, plans to win the military, Luka Bebic, was the defence minister, there is this documentation. When he asks where he is, no one knows where the paperwork is. These were the systematic documents that Croatia set out to unite all the forces at that time. So the military plan, the alert plan, everything else was done. And Mr. Vidovic acted on it and didn't even know he was acting on it. As was the conquest of the military, was the plan of conquering the military, the decision was made on September 12th. The late president brought in 91st. It was also lost, for example, when the first decision was made to form the National Guard Assembly. It was brought on April 20th. 'Cause I, I got that paperwork back, and I'm not the one who kept it to myself and don't brag about it. But I'm saying it's finally time to start this, and the government has a great obligation that, together with us, we all have to move into that part right now to create the conditions that then 1.1. when Minister Schucker never has any money, they first had words that there would be no money for this part. I know one of the reasons it worked with 1.1. But it doesn't work that we six or seven months after the law was passed, we're looking for a location for that center. So then seven, or eight months of a head man, and eventually it goes 2.3 years. That can't wait any longer. Now we need to create a healthy core smart and act immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21020	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, State Secretary Mr Jadran Antolovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21021	Let me thank you on behalf of the Government for a truly comprehensive debate and for supporting in particular the government proposal in which you have recognised that this institution, when it is established, must be a specialized archive in order to take over from the existing state archives from that system, and that it can also take over from citizens and other legal persons from the city and enable its scientific processing. It is also important in the debate to recognise that this must be a well-known institution, and that according to this, not only must the law be established but also the law on archives and archival structures, and the law on scientific research activities. And therefore required to investigate and to determine. For this reason, this research scientific character may not be visible in the very text of the law as a founding act. Since the very fact that such a centre has therefore, according to the status, the specialized archive must act in accordance with the Archive Act, i.e. if it has a scientific status that it must apply the laws governing this area of science. This also applies to staff who would be employed at such a centre, so they would have to meet all of these requirements, thus guaranteeing the conditions for further action. I thank you once again and the government will take the obligation to, as the Deputy Prime Minister said in an opening statement, offer the final text of the bill in 20 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21022	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The next item is the Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, first reading, bill No. 91 and Bill No. 132. Please engage. I'm voting on the next conclusion. One, the proposal for a law on the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War, proposed by the club of HSP representatives, is adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21156	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. I would only give a brief review of the Foundation's work with this opening presentation. Trying to report what the report says because you probably read it. And essentially more focused on what we did in the meantime, which wasn't in the report because the National Foundation Management Board has been working intensively all summer to create a foundation program. The National Foundation for Science was established on 1 January 2002 and the Management Board was formed in early October of last year, and since then the Management Board has started working on establishing a national Foundation for Science. And establishing a trust fund program. It worked intensively on the rules of the Foundation's work, taking into account the experiences of other similar foundations, especially the Irish Foundation for Science. Swedish Foundations for Science, Swiss Foundations for Science and the Natural European Foundation for Knowledge. Because the Croatian National Foundation should be an integral part of the European Research Area. The Management Board has adopted a strategic plan or a work plan for the four-year period and what is most important in these labour rules is that the Management Board will finance or finance through the Foundation can go exclusively through trust programmes. So through programmes that are publicly published and available to everyone. There will therefore be no funding so that the Management Board discusses individual or individual proposals. In the strategic plan, we highlighted 4 basic strategic values, and these are people's ideas of cooperation and excellence. Because we have estimated that research and development not only of science but also of society depends on talent, ideas, entrepreneurial energy of extraordinary individuals. And that is why it is necessary to create a framework through which these ideas can be realized. And in particular, this framework is a foundation programme, and it is particularly necessary to encourage cooperation and, in particular, interdisciplinary cooperation and to encourage the excellence that we consider to be possible to encourage through the application of a complex evaluation process which we have also built. The Management Board paid particular attention to the reform of higher education, as the reform of higher education related to the operation of the science system and to the development of science in Croatia and therefore decided to focus on seven priority areas when defining the strategic priorities of the National Science Foundation. It is not possible to finance everything but the Management Board has tried to identify which key directions are important for the development of Croatia and, of course, in a segment relating to higher education and science and how to design programmes to develop these priority directions. The Management Board focused on seven priority areas, which is support for higher education reforms, such as the inflow of brains, information and telecommunications technologies, biotechnology, new materials and new production processes, environmental science and sustainable development, and the sociocultural transition from... society to knowledge society. This is the seven strategic priorities of the Foundation and through these strategic priorities the Foundation has started to develop programmes through which activities would be financed. So far, the Management Board has discussed two programmes with three sub-programmes and has decided to launch these programmes, with one programme already launched, and the rest will be announced these days as a public tender. These are programmes related to support for the reform of higher education and these are the programmes of building institutional units for ensuring the quality of higher education, a programme that will support the establishment of doctoral studies at Croatian higher schools, and the establishment of joint studies so that Croatian higher education can fit into the European higher education area. The second programme, which the Management Board also developed and prepared, is the Brain Inflow Programme, which refers to the arrival of prominent scientists in Croatia, whether abroad, whether of Croatian origin. We called them "The Guest Program", "The Senior Program" and "The Post-Dog Program". These programmes would encourage the arrival of quality researchers in Croatia and the return of Croatian scientists from the diaspora, with these programmes, of course, focusing again on strategic areas identified by the foundation. The programmes related to younger researchers are being prepared. Basically, these are programmes that will support the implementation of doctoral studies in Croatia that only Croatian higher schools should build and it refers to the scholarship and education of PhDs either abroad or abroad in Croatia. Of course, a special emphasis will be the establishment and implementation of doctoral studies in strategic areas identified by the Management Board. The board of directors also began to discuss a programme that would refer to older Croatian citizens who deal with scientific research in order to be able to implement scientific or research projects and undertake these people, for which people cannot secure funding through a system of scientific research projects. And what is most important and most difficult, the Management Board has begun to prepare programmes through which research will be financed in strategic areas, and in this the Management Board intends to consult and form experts and teams of experts to try to identify what is in strategic areas, which has a chance to develop intensively in Croatia and develop. And of course the Management Board wants to include the National Science Foundation in the European Foundation for Science programmes. The European Foundation for Science is a major project that is being set up in Europe where a large amount of money is to be collected to finance research in Europe and we believe that Croatia must also join the European Research Area and participate in this. The project of establishing and achieving the National Foundation for Science is a major national project which the Croatian Parliament has recognised by voting the Law on National Foundation and the project needs strong support from the Parliament in order to be implemented in all of its fundamental principles practically outlined in the Law on National Foundation and the suggestions of the Croatian Parliament and the requirements of the Croatian Parliament towards the National Foundation are welcome, because by defining a programme that will be encouraged, which will finance research in Croatia where it wants to focus on excellence, and this means that there will have to be great competition and competition for funds on the Foundation programmes will need strong support from the Parliament, because it can practically not take responsibility for focusing strategic areas. I thank you and I hope I have managed to present a brief picture of the national foundation at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21157	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does a government official want to take a word for it? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Ivo Josipovic on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21158	Dear Mr. President, Mr. President of the Foundation, colleagues and colleagues. At a time when we are usually critical and unsatisfactory, it is not often given when a person is able to study two great reports that come from a state or a country connected in one way or another, bodies. About one of them we're going to be doing these days, that's the State's Attorney General's report, and that's why we're just saying a few words here about the report that's ahead of us. We have declared a hundred times that science and education are the foundation of our transition to the development and experience of other countries that have come a similar way to confirm that. However, in practice unfortunately we are not often guided by this principle and the start of the foundation seems to me an important day for the entire Republic of Croatia especially for those who are active in science and higher education, because it is obvious that this foundation will in part substitute a drought that is often in the position of science and education in the state budget. What this Report points out is full transparency both in terms of organisation, decision-making and the plans to which the Report relates. I would also like to commend that the foundation has recognised the key levers that need to be initiated, in particular, the reform of higher education and the painful process of adapting to the Bologna Process both from a functional and organisational point of view. And so the projects that have been offered, projects of higher education reform, are the right thing to do. Furthermore, the programmes in preparation to which the report is referred also talk about the sensibilities that this report and plans made up to identify problems and to find some answers for them in their activities. But if I didn't overdo it with praise, I'd say a few of my wishes or a few remarks that may not be critical in themselves but may be a certain reserve not in terms of the report but in what needs to be warned and not allowed to happen. First, there's no mechanical solution. I think the foundation that has the ambition to be... The stopper of science development and higher education must take care of the fact that neither Irish nor German nor French nor any other law and mechanically prescribe it and implement it in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We have our specific problems to deal with, the president's a doctor, with a specific antibiotic as it is with specific diseases. Secondly, what should be pointed out and what I would like to recognize is that in projects that are really wide enough to place their picture, their echo find some very specific problems that this society in a particular area I would say should recognise that support through the scientific line deserves, for example, judicial reform. That support deserves, for example, scientific, and this can be seen in the end and the scientific treatment of environmental protection, perhaps human rights. So, by supporting these broad frameworks, the frameworks of projects projected I hope that in concrete financing decisions will take care of these urgent problems that our society has. Furthermore, what I would like to take into account is, unfortunately, what is not always the case in our professional, scientific and management practices, although the goal is the same in all scientific branches and areas of roads. And that for a long time we can recognize that perhaps for social science there is no sensitivity or at least no sensitivity to the specificities of social sciences, especially those of sciences that have so-called. It's a national character. In fact, the antibiotic works the same way in America and Croatia but some measures of economic policy or some regulations do not work the same in Switzerland, Croatia, Germany... That is why this fundamental difference between one and the other that appears should be respected and it should be understood that one measure cannot measure all discipline and that the total meter is a success. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I would also want, which I also think is space, space in these projects, is what I would call a scientific marketing. Namely, when, I often have opportunities to co-operate with private and scientific institutions, to send texts, to publish, to go to conferences and to tell you that my impression is that we are not as bad as we like to show ourselves. We have very prominent scientists, individuals and experts who are in an unequal position to race for scientific fame, let's put it this way compared to their colleagues from Slovenia, Austria and Hungary or some of the like countries, simply because they do not have the support that scientists from these countries have from their countries. What does that mean? This means that we allow young scientists to go to symposiums, introduce themselves to their exhibitions, generate magazines in English that they will have, so we have a fetish of these international magazines, why not have an international magazine in the Republic of Croatia. Why would he be less valuable than the international one that goes out in Skopje, Ljubljana, or Klagenfurt, for example? So, in some ways, let's help overcome this concept of less value in domestic science, get into that race, but let's give our runners a uniform, a shoe, conditions, I won't say doping, but the necessary stimulants to run evenly, run in that race. One word in person and on behalf of the SDP Club, I believe that the beginning of the foundation is a great day for science and higher education. I believe that what we are offered in this report is not only a very good, quality report but also an excellent basis for science and education to receive in the foundation incentives primarily financial but therefore not only financially but also indirectly programming and to open, let's say a new way of affirmation of Croatian science and education that will lead to what we all expect, that Croatia successfully and quickly passes the transition path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21159	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS, respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21160	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. It was a pleasure to get into my hands with such a concise and, at the same time, a systematic report on the topic that has been on the agenda for us in Croatia for the last 10 years, at least of the declared interest, so, the development of science, higher education and technology. These discussions take us 10 years and a fundamental, fundamental prerequisite for them to give a direct result we did not meet. What was seen from the presentation of the promoter, or Mr. Lucin, who clearly outlined how the Board of Foundations came to its priorities. He came to assess the situation, competently of course with a certain dose and scientific integrity, reputation and social and political integrity, etc. However, this whole procedure would be unnecessary if Croatia had what it has sworn for years that it needs, i.e. development strategy. This clearly outlined development strategy does not exist because of this need for partial development strategies, this is one of the partial development strategies to formulate such a body. I can immediately say that as far as the Club is concerned, and as far as I'm concerned, this development strategy is in the foundation brilliantly formulated. But it should be a commitment to a whole not-state government but a commitment to the state for the next decade and longer than that. The need for reform in a system of commitment and higher education that would fit European and world trends is also clear, finally new law amending and supplementing that law that was passed in this House. One of the coatures was Dr. A light that explained the way the trust works for us. This idiot is slow and the painful system is inert and it won't be easy to implement everything we've read in the legal provisions. This foundation is one of the stoppers that should lead that machine in the right direction. Unfortunately, science development of science funding in Croatia is almost exclusively a state job. It's not like that in the world. When the situation is as it is, there is nothing left but in a state-run, para-state institution actually to concentrate on the possibility of functioning in the way that the market would otherwise work. That's it. to encourage competence. By selecting topics and selecting projects, this foundation no doubt does so. The Foundation is a financier of selected areas, selected projects and selected scientists. So for the first time, science is a higher education, and all of this activity in Croatia can be financed in a way that is not some direct application of imaginary coefficients, sliding rates and I don't know what it was called all together. So some kind of automation that, by the very fact that a professor belongs to him such and such a science project, and what a doctor belongs to him is such a science project. This foundation works differently. For all these reasons, as well as for the transparency of the report, because of the fact that it really shows what is and how it is done, the HNSA PGS club will support this report in full. With a few notes that actually do not ethic the work of the foundation rather than more relations to the foundation. Namely, the foundation seems too slow to me to enter into its fundamental function of encouraging financial first and then organisational promotion of excellence and competence in science and technological development of higher education. Obviously, there's an obstacle on that road. One of the obstacles is probably a lack of media attention. So it's something that the foundation should give a little more information to the media to write about her and her results. For the time being, the Fund is financed to exclude state money from the state budget. One of the tasks is absolutely certain, and it is written in the basic acts that one of the tasks is to find other co-financers, especially industrial companies that are interested in encouraging this activity in Croatia. What the Croatian Parliament would have to do. The Croatian Parliament is the founder of this foundation, in any case, the representatives of the foundation should be invited to the meetings of the parent committees on which the foundation itself is discussed on the subject of the foundation, perfectly sure that there are people in such an institution who can help both themselves and the business they are dealing with can be said to the Croatian Assembly. The HNS Club is very supportive of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21161	Thank you very much. Honorable representative of Slaven Letica. On behalf of the HSP Club. He's gone. He's losing his word. Dear Captain Luka Rojic on behalf of the HSS Club please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of HSS, I will refer to the National Foundation for Higher Education and Technology and Development Report. And in fact, we're going to be discussing this subject only to me it seems for formal reasons. Because of the real metrics, i.e. the work could not be discussed for 2003 when the foundation was established, and the real work on basic work was not done. A series of activities have already been carried out to make 2004 the right years of real results for this foundation. The foundation of the treasure is a commendable move. It is a tradition of founding a foundation spanning Croatia since the 15th century. For example, in 1913, 221 foundations worked and 110 of them were private scholarship funds, which means that our ancestors recognized the meaning of community service and investment in development and education. Available data from 33 foundations and one foundation that were registered and operated in 1998 gives government rights when it founded this foundation. The current work we can conclude is on the account of the trust on the moment we received the report was 90 million kuna, i.e. This money is largely in the business bank, and at least this way some revenue is realised which will be used to develop the science that we all want. It's already said income is mostly from the state budget. I hope that in the 2004 report and we have already heard from Mr Lucin, we will hear all these amounts divided for scholarships to gifted students, especially younger prominent scientists and experts in the economy and scientific and higher school institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Since the number of employees in 2003 was letter and number 1 it is difficult to expect the objectives and purpose of the foundation to be obtained in the short term. It should also be thought about the staff strengthening of the foundation, so that it can adequately respond to all future challenges in the work. I will not repeat everything science means for the overall economic and social life of a country. I can only point out that money needs science that many or almost all scientific or high-school institutions cry out for money. These should be brought in all acts as soon as possible and all activities taken in order to get the money on the ground where it belongs. Many times from this assembly pay phone, the government of the Republic of Croatia has pointed out that science is the priority of all priorities. The former government has left a good foundation for the perspective of this foundation and a decent amount of money, and I hope that the current government will continue the continuity of this way of working. I fully understand all these birthing pains about the functioning of the foundation. But I truly believe that in the 2004 report, we will be able to discuss this in a different way, and we support the adoption of the report in this form as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marko Turic, he's gone. He's losing his right. Mrs. Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. How the criticism and control of someone's work can be constructively and stimulatingly done can best be witnessed, for example, by the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Here's why I think so. The first version of the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development was found on our benches in March this year. Then I was prepared to discuss this report, in memory of the fact that it had been more than two years since the draft foundation and the President of the Governing Council tried to impress us at that time by listing the endless bureaucratic procedures around which almost entirely the work of the foundation had been done before. I say almost entirely because there was an Internet site running. In this modest report on three pages of text on the Foundation's programmes and projects, I have not been able to find a letter without talking about strategic definitions towards the future of this country, as countries of knowledge that it is constantly highlighted by our Minister of Science and this Government. The first version is for the benefit of the Croatian future of Croatian science, and it seems to me that the people who run the Foundation are back in the process. So today we are only discussing this new amended version of the report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Let's look at the facts first. The National Foundation Act was passed in December 2001. The Foundation was registered in a trust register in February 2002, and it began to act officially. Now the next question is asked. How is it that only at the end of September 2003 the Management Board of the Foundation was formed, and that the current chairman of the administration only in December 2003 became powerful for the chairman of the administration. So, for almost two years, the board of directors has not been formed for 20 months, and at the same time around 84 million kunas have been paid in the Foundation. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not small money, and we know for ourselves that this is not the most rational way to use budget funds, and I probably wouldn't be paying attention to these things if I had succeeded in the first version of the report delivered to us, to find one implementing project or programme of the Foundation, or at least a decision to launch a programme. There was nothing at the time, and I just had to ask myself, "Where do we pay millions and millions of kuna from the state budget?" Who are these people who have these means and what they do with those means? That's when nothing seemed to me. Now we come to the moment through this report that we have, when we can bear witness to the force of constructive criticism. After the first report was returned in April this year to the completion of the Foundation's management board, the Foundation's management board immediately brings in the first important and constructive documents of crucial importance in May to meet the law of the prescribed activities of the foundation that I recall, promotion of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and promotion of employment. In May, a Regulation on the work of the Foundation, recommendations and conditions for the allocation and use of funds for the programmes of the Foundations suitable for the evaluation process shall be adopted, a decision on the launch of the Foundation programme shall be taken. Support for higher education reforms and the Regulation on conditions and procedure for the allocation of funds for the achievement of the purpose of the Foundation shall be adopted. Finally something concrete. Finally, the people who run the Foundation are on their way to justify their appointments. My colleagues and colleagues are convinced that only Croatian knowledge can ensure development in the desired and expected direction. I believe that the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia with effective leadership and detailed plans and visions of action is open and transparent, and that is essential for the development of science and higher education in the Republic of Croatia. And finally, I want to say that I have directed my debate today towards constructive criticism, because we are witnessing its effectiveness, and all with the aim of jointly improving the work of the National Foundation and therefore I propose that we adopt this and this report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21165	Thank you very much. The replica of Mrs. Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21166	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, although I fully agree with you, I think it's important here to say two details so that we don't enter into some false understanding regarding the work of this foundation. I agree with you that this is the time from 2001 to the end of 2003, but it is not the Foundation's fault, but the laws in the Republic of Croatia, in particular, the Foundations and Foundations Act itself, which defined that the Foundation must not and cannot go into the realisation of the programme until the basic property which was 2 and a few million kunas is increased to 100 million kuna. This amount of 100 million kuna has been reached, and we have seen this in the reports, only at the end of 2003 have these funds been fertilized and therefore I do not think that it is the guilt or leadership of the former or present foundation that has actually started to happen here in 2004. And secondly, we are now discussing the 2003 report. I'm glad he's also a professor. Lucin and the entire Management Board of the Foundation extended these reports to us at the beginning of 2004, but they are under legal obligation at the debate only next year, and I say all this is expensive only because of the existing Act on Foundations and Foundations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21167	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it's Mrs. Ivanka Roksandić's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's how my colleague Bilic went, so I'll say the same thing. At the beginning, we must establish that we have received even two reports on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. First that report was about the report on the work of the Foundation for 2003, and there was actually a report on the work on the last three months when the Management Board and the President of the Foundation were elected. Let us remember that the Foundation was founded in 2001 with the aim of promoting, science, higher education and technological development and promoting employment, and that the Management Board was established only in late March 2003 and the new representative of the Foundation became chairman of the Management Board in November 2003. In his report, he referred only to this period, although I felt that everything that was going on in the Foundation had to be presented before and before the acquisition of the management of the foundation, because we must remind ourselves of the State Audit report we discussed here for 2002, in which we are about to direct a series of irregularities in the work of the Foundation. The Director of the Foundation was, during this period of discussion, obliged to carry out the actions provided for in the provisions of the Act on Foundations and Foundations such as taking over, or to collect the trust property, manage and represent the Foundation, propose statutes and after the decision of the Croatian Parliament on the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Foundation, forward the same to the Ministry of Justice, Administration and then local self-government. I'm talking to the Ministry at the time. The amount of compensation for these transactions was agreed in a monthly net amount of 4000 kuna. The decision of the ministry I mentioned was issued to the judiciary on the appointment of the Director of the Foundation in April 2002, which found, among other things, that the administrator was obliged to submit the statutes and to propose members of the trust authorities within 30 days. Until the date of the review in March 2003 The Croatian Parliament did not appoint a board of directors and no statute of the Foundation was drawn up. The ministry provided the manager with a monthly amount of the agreed fee, although there are no reports on the transactions carried out. Payments were made on the basis of a contract concluded in early January 2002. It was all in the report of the audit already mentioned. It is the opinion of the State Audit Office that it is not rational to withdraw funds from the budget and deposit them I quote it from this report, at the expense of the business bank, and at the same time there are no basic preconditions for the work of the Foundation, i.e. no appointment of administration and statutes and no actions have been taken to secure funds from other sources. The State Audit Office is of the opinion that the ministry should not have paid compensation to the manager because it failed to carry out the work contract. After discussions on the Committee on Science, Education and Culture where I am also a member, it was found that it was a very important foundation because investment in science in development and education is certainly a prerequisite for the success of a country and it was pointed out that the report should be more complete and show the programme activity of the Foundation if we do not want to accept it only formally, which, after all, Mr Lucin and the repeated request in the Committee and implemented and then we received a second report from Mr President Lucin concerning the entire work of the Foundation. Obviously, the Foundation has not worked in the period since 2001, at least not with the intention it was founded for. This second report was indeed and it was substantially complete, it brought us complete information about the actions undertaken in connection with the establishment and operation of the foundation, in order to establish the Management Board and in the work of the Executive Board, the property of the foundation and finally gave us some projection of the work programme and what was undertaken for the purpose of implementing the foundation programme. It is good to hear in the end that the foundation at the meeting of the Management Board held on 7 May this year has launched two programmes that support higher education institutions in implementing the reform of higher education and the establishment of doctoral studies as well as programmes in preparation for the "Sea of Brains" which aims to strengthen the scientific research potential of Croatia, ensure the inflow of young scientists in Croatia and promote the independence of Croatian young scientists and their independent launch and research in the fields of strategic priorities of the foundation. Of course, this work of the foundation should currently be supported by this work that started in 2004 because I must say that the party of Croatia is also a democratic community whose member I am in my electoral programme in the field of science and I will quote: "The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia must act immediately". It's a good thing that in 2004, the foundation, I would say, with our tongue, I'd stand on my feet and start to really work.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21169	Thank you very much. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21170	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This replica is only a supplement, so it could thus be understood as a replica as said by an esteemed colleague. So, referring to what you said lastly, what your programme is, we have nothing to object to, however, this programme should be carried out precisely on the basis of the tasks and achievements of the foundation that Croatia will in future, as it has recently started not to be a country... but a land of knowledge and brains.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21171	The reply to Mrs Ivanka Roksandić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21172	So thank you to my colleague Anticevic she only confirmed my words that the foundation by 2004 I will say again, she did not stand on her feet, we will see what the foundation will do in this future that is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21173	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms. Representative Mirjana Brnadić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21174	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I would begin to quote my presentation to my colleague Josipovic who said this is a great day for Croatia science and higher education the day when the foundation begins to work as its objectives were set with its founding act. However, after those reports we received during the 3rd and 4th months, it cannot be assumed that at least it is sad that the foundation was founded in 2001, with the aim of promoting science, higher education, technological development, encouraging employment and that the board of directors was not established until the end of 2003. The Justice Department's decision was already referred to by the administration and local self-government in 2002 as the manager who was required to deliver the Statute and to propose bodies, members of the trust authorities within 30 days. However, only after two years of the foundation’s establishment was appointed a board of directors, so someone had to answer because the foundation as such served a team more than the state audit for 2002 identified a number of irregularities in its work. Furthermore, it is unacceptable, and incomprehensible, how we treat state budget funds or taxpayers' resources. At the expense of the foundation is literally neutral, i.e. it was neutrally nearly 90 million kuna, I wonder whose interest it was, perhaps it was a misjudged assessment that a provision was placed in the statute of the foundation that the underlying assets of the foundation must reach a value of 100 million kuna. It is clear to all of us without the opinion of the State Audit Office that it is not rational to withdraw funds from the budget and place them on a business bank just because basic conditions for the start of the foundation work have not been met. Such resources could have been much better placed in other projects of science and higher education rather than at the expense of a business bank. The only thing to be commended for is that after several shrewd and incomplete reports, we finally received a full report on the work of the National Science Foundation from its establishment until June 2004. I must say, in my opinion, you cannot give a positive opinion on this report, but it can only be noted. I'm glad we heard from dr. The fact that the foundation took a big swing in preparation for the next period and I believe that the foundation will, in the most appropriate way, meet the objectives set and set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21175	The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21176	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, an esteemed colleague obviously didn't get the foundation's idea well. The aim of the foundation is not to be a turning point to withdraw money from one place and direct it to another place. That's what the Ministry does. The foundation's goal is something else. The aim of the foundation is to create a core capital from which these objectives that the foundation has in its founding acts will be financed tomorrow and in the far future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21177	Thank you very much. The answer to Mrs. Brnadić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21178	An esteemed colleague of the foundation's goal is for sure to place funds, not money, but resources in science and higher education, technological development, but it's also wrong that the funds stand neutral and no one can convince us here that that's not the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21179	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote by Mrs Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21180	Dear Mr. Vice President, it is an incorrect assumption that a colleague was mistreated with funds that lay neutral on the assets of a business bank. In accordance with the Law on this Foundation and the general law on Foundations and Foundations, the fundamental purpose of the 100 million kuna and according to the applicable laws in the Republic of Croatia must not be spent until this fund of 100 million kuna is formed, and on the other hand, it is better that it was lying in a business bank because the income from interest was around 10 million kuna, and on the other hand that the funds from the budget had not been withdrawn would have been what happened by adopting this budget when the funds for transfers, the trust, a reduction from 30 million kuna to only one million kuna in this year 2004.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21181	Thank you very much. It's Mrs. Mirjana's injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21182	Injury of the Rules of Procedure under Article 209 The colleague did not correct my claim but merely gave her opinion and somehow explained the way the spending was, I did not say that it was... illegal or that it was done in accordance with the Law I merely stated my opinion that it was not rational and that this was the residual opinion of the State Audit Office that it was not rationally neutrally placed on the account of a business bank but should be placed to the purpose for which the foundation was established.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21183	I think we should keep reporting for correction, so let's hear it. Thank you very much, I think it is, that there is no need to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure when it is a little practice with us and until we change, it will remain as it has been. Now she has the word of Mrs. Representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21184	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, it was already said here that the foundation was formed in late 2001 and I think it is important to say that it was adopted unanimously here in the Croatian Parliament, that the foundation of formation with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development, but what has not been pointed out so far is that the foundation's fundamental objective of ensuring economic development and promoting employment means everything that is in some way and in the transfer of science itself to the economy. I am pleased to discuss the annual report here in the Croatian Parliament for the first time, although Mr. Vice President, I would like to discuss such good and affirmative topics of science and education for a time and in a little more attractive parliamentary time, mostly science and education, at the end of most long and slightly tired days. I fully support the work of the foundation so far, although it seems to me, and in this my special recognition to the management of the foundation that it has taken over part of the work from the state, what the state should have done, and even us in the Croatian Assembly, the foundation has embarked on defining strategic priorities and has done well. I would not like to repeat the projects and future programmes that Professor Lucin pointed out in the opening presentation but I am particularly glad that a significant part of these programmes applies to young researchers and graduates as well as to support projects in higher education reform. I think it's unusually important for at least two reasons. As for higher education reform, I think there's a lot of resistance within the academic community itself, and the need for someone on the outside to support it a little bit and as far as these young researchers are concerned, scholarships, graduates. I am glad, although I am sorry on the one hand, that the state has reduced the funding for scholarship and students and the scientific training of graduates in this budget that at least the foundation in one part of there will succeed in making up for the error of the state and us here in the Croatian Parliament. And in the end, I think the manager, or chairman of the board of directors, invited us here to the Croatian Parliament, and asked us to support the work of the foundation, I think we should take this call seriously, that we should support the work of the foundation, but I think that we as representatives must do so in a more important way than we have done so far. So far, we've mostly talked about how they work well, how science and education should be supported. But in the part where we are the most responsible, and that is how much money we will give in science, and in the national foundation itself, I must say, we have not been too famous. For example, the very item in the 2004 state budget, which bears the name of the Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, specifically for this foundation that we are talking about, has been reduced from 31 million kuna to only one million kuna and I am sorry, I have given the amendment to return it to those funds that representatives and advocates now and declaratively advocate for the work of the Foundation are not then supported and amendments that would really support the work of the Foundation I hope that, when we adopt the 2005 budget, we will be smarter there, that we will be in some way and more consistent and that we will show in action what we all are now declaring and hopefully all of us will then vote for a budget that will continue to provide more funds of foundations and thus directly greater resources in science and technological development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21185	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Club, five minutes final Mr. Krešimir Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21186	Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, first allow a few words and this report of the foundation. I will quote part of the introduction: "The National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development established the Croatian Assembly by voting for a special law at the Parliament session on 21 December 2001 with the purpose of promoting science, higher education and technological development of the Republic of Croatia with a fundamental goal of ensuring economic development and continuing to promote employment." And that is a very important and justifiable goal, a great commitment and a great task in front of the people who ran this foundation over the past period. What I have had the opportunity to read in this report simply has no concrete contribution to these important strategic objectives. What does that mean? This means that nothing is concretely done to encourage and train or ensure economic development in which an important, extremely important role in all countries developed has science and high technology. Obviously there's no such thing in the report, there's no real thing and it's not just a handicap of this report that's a handicap of our reality. Furthermore, the very important role of this foundation in encouraging employment is stressed and this is also important and I would say too important because employment is particularly important today in the Republic of Croatia to achieve in those sectors that characterize high added value. And these are the sectors characterized by knowledge, science, applied science and high technology from all of this report have no concrete results and as concrete steps other than the usual phrases that can be found on the Internet I would almost say anywhere. Furthermore, during 2002 a complex administrative procedure for registering the trust was carried out, for a whole year, to register the trust. While working on the administrative registration of this foundation, it certainly prevented anyone from working on the specific affairs of this foundation. Furthermore, in June 2003, the Assembly appointed members of the Foundation Management Board and these are important tasks that were accomplished in 2002 and 2003. The Management Board was established in early October 2003 and joined the development of the rules and the establishment of the foundation and the development of a strategic plan for the next four-year period. The moment the foundation was adopted the strategic plan of this foundation was to be defined. And it seems to me that there is still no concrete strategic plan of this foundation in line with the strategic objectives set, ensuring economic development and promoting employment. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club cannot support this report, accepts it and expects this foundation to play a far more active, useful role in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21187	Thank you very much. Whether the applicant wants a representative, i.e. President of the Management Board, Prof. Pero Lucine take the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21188	Honorable gentlemen and Mrs. Parliamentarians. I thank you for these discussions, suggestions and support and foundations, and I feel obliged to answer some of the questions that you raised in your discussions because, of course, one of these big projects raises a number of questions. I didn't get a chance to systematicize so I could go in order as the debate ran. We have seen what others do when we are working on the rules of the foundation, so we have consulted practically all the foundations that have been available to us, especially the foundations in the European countries. We watched how they organize their work, which models apply and of course we adapted these models to Croatian opportunities. For example, the Irish Foundation, which was founded at the same time as our foundation, has, in the meantime, divided some EUR 363 million to finance scientific research and activities that are related to scientific research, and only in two areas. They focused on biotechnology and information-communication technologies. One such focus is essentially a great responsibility, and only a single state's Parliament can do such a thing. Of course, the foundation has a framework which, one of the strategic priorities, is precisely a sociocultural transition from industrial society to a knowledge society where our country is also. So there are a whole series of aspects of social and humanist who are important for successful transition, employment and economic development because it is not possible to expect only economic development in technological development unless it is accompanied simultaneously by a social and humanist context that supports such development. Of course, marketing, or the presentation of the foundation in public, is extremely important and is an extremely important transparency of the work of the foundation. We didn't go, the board of directors didn't think we should go into a presentation more intensely in public until we, clearly, say what we want to do and what programs the foundation wants to finance. We felt that it was unnecessary and that only when we started the foundation programs and we announced them to the public that we could go to the presentation of the complete idea and the complete vision and the complete future of the foundation as we see it. Of course, we have concluded that the Management Board will finance exclusively through trust programmes. What is important is what is expected of the Foundation and what has been set up by the Foundation Act, which is that the National Foundation for Science should respond to the needs of Croatian society, so we have therefore defined strategic priorities. One of the acute and key needs is reforming, quality reforming higher education, and we have focused on three key things that are needed for quality reform of higher education. What the foundation wants to support and finance is best. So unlike other funds that the state must provide through the primary action of the state administration, when it has to take care of everyone, the foundation has to take care of and has an intention to take care of only the best. The same thing that applies to the media presentation of the foundation, so the presentation of the foundation in public also applies to other sources of funding. Therefore, the state budget should not be the main source of funding for the foundation but should be based on other sources and, of course, good public perception and public promotion of the foundation is needed. We don't think it's possible to go into battle for others, other sources of funding until the foundation programmes are established. So we simply need to be able to make it clear why we need money to get that money. It is also evident that there is a need for staffing to strengthen the foundation because it is a major commitment. The foundation has one employee. In the future, it will be necessary to increase the number of employees, but certainly not to create a complex bureaucratic and administrative apparatus, but practically thorough, inauguration of the culture of project work and people who will run individual foundation programmes. I apologize to those parliamentary deputies for that first report, but the first report mentioned was a report in three months, working in the past year. So since the Governing Board was formed, that is, since the establishment of the Foundation of the Management Board. This second report you have in front of you is a report that includes the first six months of work this year. So it and the first report couldn't have been more extensive because it only covered third-year work, in the last three months, in the previous year. In any case, one review was to be carried out, a systematic review of the work from day one, so from the day the foundation was founded by the vote of the law in the Assembly until the moment we wrote the report. I hope that you have managed to get a complete review and that all the details you need are listed so that you can see how the creation and development of the foundation moved. The State Audit find refers to the ministry's activities, not the trusts. So I wouldn't go into commenting on these findings because one question is whether or not the Ministry should have paid for the foundation in the State budget, whether or not, until the work of the foundation began. Without these funds paid into the trust account, programmes could not be launched. And one thing, I'd like to explain one more thing. According to the Law on the National Foundation, and then its Statute of Fundamental Assets of the Foundation, Fundamental Property of the Foundation, or the Management Board is obliged to increase the underlying assets of the Foundation by making all those payments that come in particular to State budget funds or funds associated with the State budget, half of these assets must be registered as basic assets. That means now the foundation at this point has 96 million kuna. From this half is entered in the trust book as basic assets and these assets must not be spent. The other half can be used for trust programmes and any future payments that come to the account of the trust must be registered, half must be registered as basic assets until 100 million kuna is reached. I hope you've succeeded in the report to see what we intend to do. This report was written in the first week of June when the Management Board, when the Management Board made decisions to launch the programme. Meanwhile, there were several meetings of the Management Board and the Management Board, as I said in the introduction, decided to launch 6 programmes. Once again, I would like to invite you to participate and help set up these programmes because it is not easy to establish strategic priorities. Especially make strategic focus like the one made by the Irish because it's a huge responsibility. We've decided to take that responsibility in that segment where we can. And I thank you once again for all the discussions, suggestions and support that you have provided so far with the work of the National Foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21189	I would like to thank the proposer's representative, Professor Peri Lucin. Does the government's representative want to? Oh, yeah, it's already been absorbed through this, so here's the final debate on this agenda point. The vote will probably be tomorrow. Today's session I conclude and announce that tomorrow will begin at 9.30 a report on the implementation of the plan for demining the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003 a report on the work of the Committee on Presentations and Appeals, the report on the work of the Council on the regulation of energy activities and so on. So tomorrow at 9.30. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-09-23-0.u21190	Report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technology Development of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. Please come in. In line with the proposal of the HDZ Club of Representatives, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Foundation for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development of the Republic of Croatia takes note from December 2001 to June 2004." Please vote. For, uh, abstention? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion accepted by 82 votes to four abstentions and 14 against. And it's consummated, and it's pointless to vote on the committee's proposal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is next - Report on implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The demining law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the session. It is next - Report on implementation of the demining plan of the Croatian state space and spent financial resources for 2003. Article 4 is replaced by the following: The demining law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I ask State Secretary of the Ministry of Interior Ivica Buconjic to further explain the proposal. Here you go.
