ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14370	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to work with item 5 of the agenda of the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, first reading of P.Z. No. 85 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received an application by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Internal Plitique and National Security and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Buconjic State Secretary at the Ministry of Interior, Mr. Ivica Buconjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14371	... And gentlemen. [[speaks later turned on, can't be heard]] The bill you received, I will only go on briefly, if there is a need or a question later on about certain provisions I will only briefly explain the purpose of the proposed changes, purpose and reason. One part of the proposed amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act is, above all, conditional upon compliance with the new Construction Act, while the other part of the proposed changes is primarily conditioned by tightening sanctions for people who do not respect fire measures and are in some way involved in increasing the risk, i.e. in causing fires. So the first part relating to compliance with the Construction Act is articles 2 to 8 which are conditional, above all, on changes to the Construction Act, in order to simplify the process of issuing building permits, i.e. all of the actions on which the Ministry of Interior participates in the construction process itself and be more precise and transparent. Thus, Article 2 states that the Ministry of the Interior is required to participate in the process of passing spatial order documents while, under current law, the Ministry of the Interior could be discreetly involved in the procedure. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 3 of this Regulation. Five and six. Article 4 shall be determined in accordance with what criteria the building must be built to meet all the requirements of fire protection measures. and Article 4(3) states one newspaper, that the Ministry of Interior may lay down alternative measures to meet these conditions in those buildings where it is not possible to implement regular measures, i.e. buildings in difficult places available in historical cores, or some other facilities where it is not possible to carry out regular prescribed fire protection measures. One of the biggest newspapers is in Article 5 to divide all buildings and facilities into two groups. The first group are the family houses of simple buildings and other less demanding buildings for which the MUP does not need agreement. and other groups are demanding buildings where it is mandatory to obtain a certificate from the MUP. In fact, so far there has been a discretionary right of the MUP to assess which buildings, where the building is mandatory to issue consent, in which it is not, so there have been long-term waitings for these consents, which made it important to make it difficult for investors to work. It is now clear that for the first group, the Ministry should not issue consent. It will be specified exactly what buildings they are. And it is expected to be over 25% of all buildings built in Croatia. It is also prescribed that, unless the competent authority, i.e. the police administration or the ministry, within 30 days, issue either a positive opinion or a negative opinion, it is considered to be the agreement of the day, so that in some ways this procedure is accelerated and simplified and all the harmful consequences of the administration's silence are eliminated. It is also one of the major newspapers in Article 6 which adds a new Article 15a. Because it is prescribed that data on planned fire protection measures and technological explosions in the main project are derived from fire protection laboratories. The fire protection laboratory is designed only for the building of Group Two. And what's important now is that the elaborate can be designed by an authorized fire protection engineer who signs an emborate after construction. So far, it has been a practice for the designers of this lab to have been able to obtain practically from any expert, and very often this was the reason for them to elaborate, that part of the projects that concerned the implementation of fire protection measures was not in line with the law, which was also one of the reasons why the projects were rejected, and the extension of the procedure itself. This specifically states that the project must be based on an elaborate, that the elaborate can only be designed by an authorised fire protection engineer and the professions that the engineer must be. So this will significantly tighten up, but also simplify the process of project making, thus shortening the time for project creation and obtaining all the necessary consent. This second part of the legal provisions that are changed primarily concerns the authorisation of fire protection inspectors, and Article 9 provides that nature protection inspectors carrying out tasks also have the powers and fire protection inspectors to be able to act more effectively in parks protected by nature. The penalties for the cause of the fire are then tightened, that is, those penalties that have been expressed so far in German marks are expressed in kunas. It also introduces a penalty for natural and legal persons, Article 12, for natural and legal persons who prevent fire protection inspectors from implementing the prescribed measures. It has been a very common practice so far that natural and legal persons simply did not allow fire protection inspectors to carry out all the measures, the penalties were very mild, so many investors found in this account better to pay the minimum penalty and act illegally, and the purpose of this is to force investors to allow the protection inspectors to act against fires. The penalties and measures for those who cause fire have also been tightened. The same shall be prescribed here in Article 49 for legal persons acting contrary to the provisions laid down in Article 3(6) and what is also important to say is Article 17, which shall be deleted from the present Article 52. In fact, this article was prescribed the possibility of the minister prescribing penalties. This was contrary to the Law on Infringements, so that very often, i.e. never those penalties prescribed by the Minister could not be applied, and that is why Article 14, or new Article 49a, respectively. prescribed that sublaws will also prescribe penalties to be applied by automation, which is not in conflict with the Law of Infringements. Here's about the explanation of this bill, so to systematize, one part of the provision was pre-conditioned by the adoption of a new Construction Act. The second part refers to tightening the penalty for violating the Fire Protection Act. The nature inspectors who have the authority of fire protection inspectors shall then be empowered to have the appearance of a fire protection inspector badge in order to give greater authority to inspectors and to have much greater opportunities for consistent application of this Fire Protection Act. That's it. If you have any questions, I'll answer them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14372	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Honorary Representative Ivan Jarnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14373	Your Honor, Mr. President! The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security at the 14th session held on 26 May 2004 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Fires submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the Act of 15 April 2004. In his opening statement, he pointed out that the proposed legislative amendments and additions represent the harmonisation of the Fire Protection Act with the Construction Act in the section relating to procedures relating to spatial planning and construction, i.e. with the adoption of spatial planning documents and the issue of a local, construction and use permit. It also states that the proposed legislative amendments complement the criminal provisions in order to sanction illegal behaviour and tighten penalties for persons who cause fires. With respect to the reasons given by the representatives of the legislator, the Committee also took into account the fact that the Republic of Croatia is a country facing major damage caused by fires in particular in the Mediterranean part and considers that the proposed legislative changes will allow for better quality implementation of fire protection measures. Therefore, the Committee unanimously decided to propose a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Fires in the text is adopted as proposed by the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14374	Thank you. Anyone else from the board? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, distinguished representative Zivko Nenadic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14375	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Fires are I would say a regular elemental accident in Croatia and especially in the Adriatic where I actually live, so sometimes a man wonders how we know this will happen this year as well and we cannot prevent them, we cannot avoid them or at least reduce them to minimal damage because every year we witness great fires, huge consequences. Unfortunately, human casualties will be, too, natural disasters, the destruction of houses and family economies, up to a great amount of material cost at the expense of all taxpayers. Human imperfection but also human wickedness with undesirable natural phenomena is always a step ahead of human organization. That's why we have a constant struggle to keep this step ahead ever smaller and since we'll never reach it, the consequences of the fire will be less and less. In this sense, the HDZ Club looks at this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Fires of the Conscious nature, human imperfection and the imperfection of the law. Therefore, this bill in some way perfects this Fire Protection Act in one part of its relationship with or in line with the Construction Act but also prescribes criminal provisions for its offenders. In fact, it defines the role of the MUP as a resolute state body responsible for fire protection in the adoption of spatial planning documents and the issue of local, construction and useful permits but very important in the process of speeding up the administration of the MUP is given 30 days for issuing a solution of positive of course or negative. And the proposal is that unless a solution is issued within 30 days, it will be considered that the MIP has no objections on fire protection measures in the main project. Here we hope that if it is not already prescribed punishment for the responsible persons in the MUP if those solutions do not arrive within 30 days so that no solution can be obtained within 30 days because of that recipe of the famous age. Also in this proposal, amending the laws relating to the division of buildings into two groups to those simpler ones, which are assumed to have about 25% and which do not require fire protection embossed and more complex demanding buildings which have about 75% that must have that elaborate, we consider totally acceptable and meaningful. In this way, it will avoid situations that, as I said, not obtaining a solution within 30 days is actually a solution or consent, and therefore we find it completely rational and reasonable that for every single building type of family house, garage and the like, it is not really necessary to elaborate on fire protection. And thank God we have a lot of national parks and nature parks, and even the slightest fire in them can have inconceivable consequences, actually natural disasters. And there is a need to strengthen their surveillance. We therefore also welcome and it is good that it is in the proposal of this law that the inspectors of the nature of these areas have the powers of the inspectors to protect against the fires of the police administration. Therefore, the HDZ Club views it as essential for the safe preservation of natural resources as well as for the preservation of human lives and material goods. We will support him in his first reading as well as any other proposal heard today that contributes to the basic intention of making as little fire as possible and as little damage as possible from the fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14376	Thank you. On behalf of the HSS Club, distinguished representative Josip Vresk.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14377	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Chief, colleagues and fellow MPs! I will also immediately say that the HSS Club will also support this law in its first reading. We really believe that it was meant to intervene before in this law but we felt and today we feel that the whole Fire Protection Act should be written and now I will say why. The opening argument of the State Secretary shows that this law intervened for three basic reasons. First, to finally comply with the Law on Infringements because it was indeed an unusual situation for us to have fines in dinars and German brands in that law, and it is a good thing that it is now finally harmonised in that part. I do not take, of course, whether the lower or the upper limit of the sentence for the offences committed is right or wrong. You know, when it comes to fires, not one of the highest punishments is too high. Secondly, it was necessary to comply with this law, and that is true, to comply with the Construction Act, but it seems to me that the law is not in full compliance with the Construction Act, but I leave it to the Proposer for a second reading of the law and I suggest that this text be fully aligned with the Construction Act. And thirdly, it is obvious that the aim of the motion was to protect the inspectors from the fires of some authority. Now, that's where we come up with one problem. Which means badge and whether the badge means some kind of special authority to fire protection inspectors or not. I claim that the powers that inspectors have for them can be given to laws and sublaws, but only the badge is actually just an identification. What am I saying? It is true that when the Law was passed on to the police in this home that certain parts of the Ministry of the Interior were not under the police department, so who did not lose the so-called police officers. Permissions, they lost... and they lost and of course the right to wear a badge and the fact is that it makes it difficult for inspectors to work in the field. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm familiar with previous experience of facing many problems. However, this is not a good solution simply because it is necessary to comply with that provision with the Police Act, I do not think it is harmonised, because the question of what is then the status of the inspector, whether they are police officers, whether only their identifications are used to identify them and whether they have other powers on the ground, but then they need to be regulated by law. I'm going to look back a little bit on some of the provisions of this Act that I think are vaguely written or not well at least stylish. You know, it's good to write in the law specific things, so there's a local police department. I think it's a better standard, not only in this regulation, but also in a series of regulations, we're constantly stressing, so we're stressing here. I think a more quality term is a local organisational unit of the Ministry of the Interior, is she now a police administration and in the future it will be a police station, I don't know, but I think you'll find it easier... Second, Article 4(2) and (3) I believe that this should be clearly specified, be careful, paragraph 2 which reads: "It is considered that the conditions of paragraph 1 of this Article..." etc. ... "if the building meets the conditions laid down in this Act and on the basis of the regulations adopted and the conditions of fire protection laid down by specific laws and on the basis of the rules adopted therein.". [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This would be fine if there were no paragraph 3 which reads: "Extremely from paragraph 2 of this Article, unless it is possible to meet the conditions set out in paragraph 1 of this Article for spatial, technical or technological reasons, the Ministry of Interior will determine the replacement measures which achieve compliance with those conditions.". I also agree with the replacement measures and they must have such a possibility. However, the first question is whether these laws fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Interior or of another ministry. If these are the rules, then they are brought not by the ministry but by the minister, because no regulation actually comes from any ministry, or from whose jurisdiction the ministry is never brought forward, so the minister. Or it's some other act. Actually, it's a good wish, but it's necessary to edit the text. Then, again, we have Article 5 refers to Article 15, which is amended, paragraph 2: "The Minister of the Interior, following the previously obtained opinion of the Minister responsible for construction affairs, shall adopt a regulation which shall classify the buildings as groups referred to in the preceding paragraph.". It's obviously the rule book. But then you should write the rule book, again... You'll make your job easier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 9: "The Minister of the Interior will prescribe the content of the form of the official card and the appearance of the official badge.". That is fine, but: "The inspector referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall demonstrate their official identity and authority." and powers "...with an official ID and an official badge.". Indeed, powers are not drawn from the content of the card, powers are acquired or prescribed by law or by sublaw. It would be good, I say, if that text were fixed. And then we have a famous article 18 that really needs to be amended, a list of foreign regulations that will be applied as rules of technical practice in the area of fire protection in the Republic of Croatia by the Minister of Interior, with the consent of the Minister of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction. Listen, what's a list of regulations, if we're taking over foreign regulations, it's known how it's done, and secondly, it just took technical standards, if it's technical standards, to get into our regulations. If it's to be done in law then let's do it in law, if it has to be done by regulation then I suggest it be done by regulation. Just one more principled thing. Look, as far as the inspection service's position is concerned, I repeat what I said before. It would be good to see what belongs and it is prescribed that her jurisdiction in the jurisdiction of the state administration to protect and rescue which we have established, i.e. by amending the structure of the state administration, by adopting a new law if I am not mistaken from January of this year, I have also suggested that it is good to place in the authority of the administration the jurisdiction of fire protection. Because watch out, you'll have in one administration that, by all means, has the character of the ministry united all the jobs and these jobs will still have to be done unfortunately by the MUP, it's not good because we've repeated and I now very responsibly argue that these jobs should be united in one body of the state administration called the Ministry or the State Department of Protection and Rescue, but it is nevertheless a good one. In the end, the HSS Club will support this law with suggestions from the Proposer to correct the text until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14378	Thank you. On behalf of the Club Libre, the esteemed prisoner Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14379	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Ministry, allow me, on behalf of the Club LIBRE, to be brief, given that the amendments and additions to the existing law are to be made to our position, so on this proposed Fire Protection Act. Club LIBRE will support this Law in its first reading because we believe that its adoption emphasizes prevention as a basic form of fire protection. The best prevention against the fires of various buildings most mentioned by this Law is their construction with the satisfaction of this Law prescribed terms and conditions of design and construction. In order to reduce the possibility of fires to the minimum possible extent, in order to avoid possible victims and material damages that can be significant to such an accent. Let's just remember the fires at the road burner, where luck alone didn't have any more serious consequences for the health of a larger number of people. It should not be noted that this burner today would certainly not meet the requirements of any fire protection laboratory. And such fires in Croatia are increasing from year to year because everyone is trying as cheaply as possible to build their buildings often at the expense of just the safety of the building. The consequences of this can be fires that can cause great damage to our households and economies. For the illustration, I will give you the information that there were 78 fires on buildings in Međimurje County in 2003 and where fire units had to intervene. There are many such fires in Croatia, in 2002 there were 2627 fires on buildings and in 2003 the number grew to 3076. The damage is about 100 million kuna. For this reason, Club LIBRE supports the introduction of a mandatory elaborate for demanding buildings that should only be designed for this authorised fire protection engineer. This is considered to be a better quality solution than the existing one because it is possible for the right profession, therefore an authorised fire protection engineer and not as until now, a legal person registered to design to care for designing and building a facility. In particular, Club LIBRE supports Article 1 of this Act, which states that each person is obliged not to cause a fire and which determines the criminal liability of every person if they cause a fire and we also support the introduction of more punishments for purposely or unintendedly causing a fire. This should in particular be highlighted in light of the fact that, according to estimates, as many as 70% of the fires in the Republic of Croatia are caused by human negligence and negligence. So in 2002, the cause of the fire was 5933 because of the people’s lack of care and carelessness in 2002. And in 2003, in the last year, there were 7677 or 71% of the fires that were caused by people's interruptions or indifference. In fact, there were 275 fires on purpose. I think that on this fact, we all need to stress together and think about what to do next, so we must also develop awareness of nature conservation, especially for our school programmes, so that from the earliest age, children are aware of the quality of nature that they have, therefore, in what way they can protect them. In this respect, the Libre Club also supports the enhanced protection of our national parks in such a way as to give nature inspectors more power to monitor measures against fires in national parks and nature parks. the authority of the fire protection inspector. This will strengthen control and supervision in our national parks and nature parks, and the Republic of Croatia must introduce other measures to protect our natural wealth from fires. What Club Libre would like to warn about is the role of a fire community which is not mentioned in this Act, these amendments to the Law, which we think should also have a place in this Law in such a way as to enable it to attach its opinion on the elaborate design or, at the very least, be able to have insight into the elaborate for purely practical reasons to go to put out a fire with basic information about, for example, building, construction method, approach, construction capacity and so on. So Club Libre will support this Law in the first reading but we point out that Croatia also needs a new whole Fire Protection Act in order to remove the observed difficulties in the functioning of the fire protection system which, unfortunately, are present in... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14380	Thank you. On behalf of the DC-HSLS Club, distinguished representative Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14381	Mr. Vice President, Secretary General, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The motion to amend the law on fire protection came at the right time. Before the changes were made, the legislator probably realized that there were errors in the law because the job at fire protection was not working properly. This proposal shows that inspectors will receive official IDs and badges which will improve the work on the field of inspectors in Croatia around a hundred. And they'll be fine with police inspectors so they won't be done when they come out on fires and they'll be more effective in their work. The destruction of the state of protection against fires over the past years, the resulting fires and consequences as they seek their causes is concluded that the causes of the greatest number of fires are the failures of a man who gets hungry in taking banned actions or not taking the prescribed fire protection measures. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on fire protection is good and for the first time prescribes sanctions against persons who cause fire and will make it much easier for them to carry out inspection controls on fire protection inspectors. This bill is aimed at prevention and repression. Its prevention is primary and is the basis of work to improve the state of protection against fires which, together with repressive measures, criminal proceedings and sanctions, bans and similar coordination and complementarity. From those facts, the work of fire protection inspectors is primarily focused on the implementation of this Act which I am just passing and I would point out that they are carrying out above the Fired Fluids and Gases Act, the Law on Explosive Substances for Economic Use, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances and a series of other technical regulations and norms. This Proposal for a Law provides for an official identity card and a badge of a fire protection inspector to enable the same quality of the operations to be carried out. Speaking of jobs, I'd like to list the work carried out by the inspectors, and they're based on this bill. Inspective and fire-fighting checks on all legal persons and actions, supervision of legal persons and actions carrying out traffic operations and the use of explosive and other hazardous substances, the determination of the pattern of fire, technological explosives and haiarium, the review of legal natural persons involved in the transport of dangerous substances in co-operation with the traffic police. Jobs that depend on party requests are: the issue of specific building conditions in the process of issuing a local authorisation. Review of the main project for obtaining a building permit and granting consent to planned fire and explosion measures. Participation in the work of the Technical Review Committee, newly built or reconstructed buildings. Participation in the process of issuing a local authorisation for holding and installing flammable liquids and gases and issuing acts in accordance with the Law on flammable liquids and gases. The authorisation shall be granted for the purchase of explosive substances and the keeping of records of the authorisations granted. Authorisation for the transport of explosive substances in internal transport I must especially point out that fire protection inspectors are involved in the fire-sights, technological explosions or hawarys team together with the criminal police, insights at the scene, arson determines whether there is a criminal or criminal liability with a primary objective in order to combat illegal behaviour. There are about 100 fire protection inspectors in the Republic of Croatia, and after the adoption of the proposal of this Act, better computer equipment should be provided to them. Some don't. Better equipped with motor vehicles and generally increase operational technical conditions to increase the efficiency of their work. As regards all of the above-mentioned Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act, it has been well done and I propose the following amendments in the same way. Article 1a is replaced by the following: Article 3(2), Article 5(2), Article 8, paragraph 1, point (a) of Article 45(2), point (b) of Article 54(1) is deleted. Explanation: In the system of state administration, the Kotar has been abolished by law. In Article 13, paragraph 1 is added and replaced by the word ‘individual person’. Recital: when establishing a criminal liability for trade crafts and other actions, no request could be made for the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure to competent courts because they are not legal persons and cannot be brought to an individual's attention. If an individual is replaced by a word, a natural person will be able to misrepresent both the individual and the trade craft and other actions. The DC and HSLS club supports this law to go to second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14382	Thank you. On behalf of the HSP Club, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14383	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. Due to the poor organisation and coordination of fire protection only on Hvar last year, a village and huge quantities of pine forests, vineyards, fields, lavenders and other plantations burned down, and on the island of Korcula in the last few years about 2,000 hectares of pine forests making olive groves and vineyards. And such fires, unfortunately, are all over southern Croatia. Part of these fires are organized and we know that this will be repeated year after year. And we're doing nothing to significantly correct the lack of fire protection. And that's the most disorganization and lack of financials. Some of the lacks of organisation are fire finances which depend exclusively on local governance in the budgets no funds are provided for specific sources of assets au taxes. It's more important than that to co-operate with local self-government to solve problems in walking. The DRgio chain of command does not function because it functions only on the basis of friendship rather than on the topic of division of competences with clear responsibility. Friendship hides the disorganization, in the sense of sharing responsibilities and responsibilities. There's got to be an Athoc headquarters for every fire. The body responsible for the fire has the mandate of commanding troops on the ground. The key is the first headquarters or field commander to name the strikers, airtractors, and helicopters. And secondly, the new task force must not be carried out anywhere but on the ground by bypassing the edge of the fire. Thirdly, the forest, as is the case with the Croatian forests, are responsible for the fire roads and lookouts. But part of the responsibility for the abandoned roads is borne by the owner. But there is also the question of the rentability of these fields. I mean, the problems that forestry does when it cuts wood. Along with the also moaning of Croatian forests for lack of funds for the production of fireflies. No more civil protection. Croatia's Adriatic coast no longer has any notification or alarm system. There's no choir room to offer help or get info. There's not even an organized report at the scene of the fire. Citizens can be mobilized in the declaration of an elemental accident. But there remains an open question of citizens' response. And fifth, in a fire, it's crucial to guard the edges of the fire, so that the fire doesn't escape because the damage is ten times greater then. It is not necessary to bring reinforcements from northern Croatia or from land to islands enough to increase local units or introduce one larger mobile professional season. A special summer fire-fighting supplement should be introduced to fire-fighting units. And the Croatian government should, in fact, be obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament on this year's fires already at the first autumn session. One of the HSP's proposals is that Croatia adapts the Canadian way of managing firefighting, that is, centralizing the system. Where a small number of people manage a system of firefights, across the area of responsibility. In order to achieve these propriety, support in data collection and processing needs to be computerised. About the weather, the fires, the fire behaviour, the state of detection by initial attacks, and the power to shut down. Based on the first papers on this in the province of Ontario, Canada, the Perovava National Force Institute protects eight million hectares of forest. And the main database is weather and climate data, lightning strikes, fire data, fuel and land flow data. Different data banks allow the determination of the area where lj enters most often cause fires. Data on weather and fires for the same period over the last 10 years, included in the fire data caused by human activity, provide a forecast model to which current weather data and others are added with a view to determining the area of excess risk and strengthening surveillance. Zua fires caused by lightning systems use a network of lightning detectors. The computer integrates these data and predicts the number and place of lightning-induced fires, which also predicts a stronger concentration of first impact force. Based on these systems in internal communication between enforcement i.e. planes and gas groups, father and map banks. These subsystems for prevention and operationalisation and training. The second HSP proposals for improving the anti-recognition protection are firstly, practically there is no single command system, and no one knows who is responsible for what. A national crisis centre, which through its county facilities, and islands will take over the single seizure of these elements of disasters, needs to be found. DRugo, the financing of fire departments should be regular according to the number of interventions and specificities of the area. One is for the city's fire and the other is quite different in the summer of the month 24 hours a day to put out huge forest fires, engaged in the hills. As tourism lives from the preserved environment, and unburned forests, HSPe has already suggested that in the future 30% of tourism tax revenues benefit for the purpose of firefighting. Fourth, a fleet of canaders and large fire departments are needed for larger fires. But in the beginning, one part of the fire can be eliminated or at least accurately located only from the air. Therefore, the HSPe proposes to create along the coastal airport network for small fire-fighting aircrafts. Airtractor guy. On the eve of this year's catastrophic fire on Hvar, the government lifted a valid license for the STari city flight on Hvar, which served as a fire base for decades. And fifthly, it's clear to everyone that the most important emergency reaction in forest fires is the father of the fire. The new Sielse 415 candider stands at 22m euros or 150m kuna. He's carrying six tons of water. At the same time, the new AT 800 air tractor carrying three tonnes of water costs only 1.2m euros or 10m kuna. It should be possible for local self-government to buy one airtractor for Hvar, Brač, Korčuli, Vis, through HABOR loan and with the support of the Ministry of Reconstruction. We expect the consistency of the Ministry of Agriculture with regard to the burned-out farmers on the Adriatic. If they have set aside 400 million kuna for the benefit of the drought on the fruit of the wheat, then they should show the same will to help burned farmers. The payment of fire insurance should also be encouraged, for farmers. For this reason, Croatia's insurance must remain at least 25% in state hands. And finally, let me add, another big problem is the crew problem. Under Canadian regulations, an air specialized pilot and a copilot licensed under normal conditions must not fly more than six hours of flight. With a week's vacation. And ours flies for 12 hours, of course, with great danger to the lives of themselves, and the people on the ground beneath them. Not to mention that they're underpaid and underpaid and that's why they're even more in danger of flying. Which brings us back to the beginning of the problem, which is disorganization and lack of finance. The Croatian Party of Rights will still support this Law because unfortunately it is the only law we have so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14384	Thank you. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations of the esteemed representative of Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14385	there were several false allegations, perhaps for the sake of the public, it should be said that Croatia has a unique system for fire control, that Croatia has 5 and that the MUP has 5 mobile units in the Adriatic. And not to go any further. It is not true that only a local self-government unit is financed by fire protection, see how much this year's release has been done. However, so as not to get the wrong impression that nothing in Croatia is working to protect against fires.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14386	Thank you. The esteemed representative of the Korenika, correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14387	Thank you very much Mrs. Tomasic incorrectly said that there is no system of financing of firefighting in Croatia. The funds of the local self-government units of the local self-government unit are owed 5% of their original incomes to invest in the financing of the fire department, the question is whether they are sufficient. I agree that's not enough. And the second thing, last year, it wasn't 400 million kunas spent to compensate for the damage from the wheat drought, it was completely for agriculture. Therefore, let us not give the impression that there is only one culture in agriculture, unfortunately it was also insufficient...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14388	Thank you. You've corrected an incorrect quote. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14389	Article 209(2), Mr. Lucin and Mr. Korenik, if we had what they're saying, there wouldn't be this kind of fire situation, they're giving their opinion. What are we even talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14390	Article 209 is not injured. It is next to the club of the PGS, the esteemed representative of Srecko Ferenčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14391	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. These amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act have brought one narrow segment of this law into line with the Construction Act in the section relating to procedures relating to the space of editing, construction, or the adoption of spatial order documents, the issue of a local and construction permit. Such amendments, unfortunately, only a small part of the Fire Protection Act, are in line with the European Technical Regulation which was the basis for the adoption of the Construction Act, which is fully in line with the legal acquis of the European Union. So far, experience of investors and projectors has confirmed that the fire-fighting agreement for projects has been waiting for two and more months, which is inadmissible because it slows down any serious economic activity. It is very likely that these long deadlines are due to the overload of inspections against fires carried out by other jobs. The basic tasks of the inspection should be in the field of control of finished facilities, and the control of projects in the state inspection should be carried out in the past and, therefore, the opinion and proposal of our club that the amendment of the law should propose and carry out decentralisation of the procedure in terms of the delegation of the powers of the control of projects from state institutions in this case of the MUP to authorised natural or legal persons as provided for in the Construction Act for other not less important and essential requirements for construction such as mechanical resistance, stability, noise, energy savings, heat protection. Such decentralisation would be effective and good because the authorized... would certainly do his job much faster than the competent inspectorate has done and that is why many investors have objected, and potential investors are driven away by long-term authorisation procedures. In addition, it should be said that the state in other areas such as public notebooks and court warlocks has accepted the model of decentralisation of its powers and has shown itself functionally and well in practice. It is not good that this law does not consider such a possibility, and the introduction of authorised designers from the area of fire protection under the supervision of the MUP is a correct but very little shift. When we come out of the narrow segment of the amendments dealing with this proposal, we will see that the entire existing Fire Protection Act is inadequate and dysfunctional and that it is impossible to establish an effective fire protection system based on this law, and that I am not talking about special attention that needs to be given to coasts, islands and Adriatic hinterland, given that every year we are witnessing catastrophic fires. In these amendments, we should only commend the agility of the Ministry of Civil Engineering who wishes to bring its segments into line with European legislation, but therefore the Resort Ministry has completely failed and has not yet prepared a full amendment to the Fire Protection Act. From the above, it is evident that the proposed corrections only in the small segment are modernising the existing system to protect against fires which will support the HNS and PGS, but systematically and in the long term, this issue needs to be addressed by the new Fire Protection Act, which would fully comply with European legislation and allow effective and systematic fire protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14392	Thank you. On behalf of the IDS club, distinguished representative Valter Drandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14393	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a few words on behalf of the IDS club about this law as well. It seems to me that all my predecessors have said a lot about what's bothering the fire department and what the fire department is supposed to do today, but we are also looking at this law in the context of compliance with the law, primarily with the Construction Act. I would like to say that the fire department is certainly one of those activities that has been successfully implemented by decentralisation, that today the fire department is what is logically almost entirely in the jurisdiction of local and regional self-government and we think it's a good thing. I would also like to say as one of the most responsible people in the Croatian fire department that, according to our estimates today, firefighting in Croatia is one of the most organised systems, surely the most organised system in the future we hope for a system of protection and rescue and once again I use this opportunity to underline and to say that the fire department should be the bearer of that system. It's a system that works 24 hours a day. It is a system that has people who love their jobs, it is a system where people who are sacrificial and people who opted for a fireman's call, do not commit themselves to it as for any job but commit themselves as a real for their life call and we have opportunities to watch, unfortunately, that we still fire in Croatia today by not so much technique, not so much equipment, but primarily sacrifice, courage, heart and knowledge of our firefighters, and I think that whenever we talk about legal solutions here and here in the Croatian Parliament. Firemen today need to be sure what my predecessors have said, perhaps I disagree with some in some detail, but generally, better organized, but they need to be better equipped technically, technologically to facilitate their hard work. It seems to me that legislation in this area should be harmonised, that legislation should be harmonised when we talk about a system of protection and rescue, when we talk about fire protection and when we talk about fire. It is practically one package of three laws that we need and it would be good to talk about them in one whole, because when we talk this partial then maybe the whole picture is lost which is today a fire protection and what it is fire and often we firemen watch only during those few summer months when the fires are extinguished primarily on the Adriatic. We don't see all those other activities of theirs, and I have to tell you that today over 50% of fire interventions are no longer fires but, unfortunately, technical interventions. We see daily collisions on our roads, daily unfortunately people die on roads and many other technical incidents in the economy etc. and more and more than fire, firefighters must carry out these other heavy obligations, and that includes different training and much more high quality and different equipment and equipment and technology in order to combat these difficulties that affect our citizens and our society as a whole. Therefore, we at the IDS Club also generally support the intensities of this bill and we will support it in the first reading, but we think that these three laws on protection and rescue are needed, on fire protection and on fire protection in one whole, in one package whether it is necessary to adopt new laws or to amend certain laws in order to discuss this issue in a metric way in one way that we say so to the single whole. The IDS Club supports these proposals of the law primarily because we feel that much greater responsibility is needed for those who cause fires, that much greater responsibility is needed for implementing fire protection measures, and it is evident that if we do not have adequate penalties for such cases, that this responsibility is almost nothing, therefore I propose these proposals which go in the direction of increasing penalties for the cause of fire and for not implementing fire protection measures, and we think that this will give a certain effect. Also, I must say that when we talk about penalties, it is certain that when someone causes a fire they need to punish him as severely as possible. When a person does not adopt the necessary plans, he should also be punished for not implementing the fire protection measures, but unfortunately today we also do not have our inspections working in that direction. We do, and I have to pass it on to you in the field a great dissatisfaction with the work of our inspections. It happens to us that inspectors are much more concerned with whether a commander in a voluntary fire department has the right professional or school equipment, so we're being punished by firefighters because they're voluntary firefighters and maybe they don't meet some formal conditions. The same is happening to us today and in some public fire departments, so if even in the Law it may not have been written badly, it certainly wasn't the legislator's intensities, and I am asking, and here, responsible at the Ministry of the Interior, that when it comes to inspection surveillance, it may have turned to those who should comply with the laws, and these are primarily responsible entities that do not still fulfil their obligations to firemen, which are insurance companies that do not comply with their obligations under the law of firemen and others and which, unfortunately, no one punishes. We punish firefighters, punish people who have been assigned to this calling, punish volunteers who spend their free time in this humanitarian work, I think it's not good, even though I know you'll answer me if you answer me and you don't need it to be all in accordance with the law. I agree that according to the law, we were wrong if we made something wrong in laws but we didn't have that intensity, we had some other intensities. I ask you to take this into account and to direct the inspections to work in the direction that the fire department becomes more efficient and not only to protect ourselves when something happens but to throw as high an accent as possible to prevent such incidents and fires as well as others will not say no... it is impossible than that as little happens as possible. There are a lot of problems in the fire department, I've talked a lot about it, I don't want to repeat much today, but I'd like to pray also from this pay phone to try to solve all of our key problems together, the key problem today is still the VAT refund issue for last year where some tax administrations happened to some counties, fire departments, societies, communities, and communities returned VAT for last year and some tax administrations to some counties are not, therefore, one of the illogicalities in Croatia as if we have more tax administrations. I hope that this system will work for this year, however, I would also ask the competent Ministry and the Ministry of Finance to try to find a solution for last year to all... the return of VAT I think would make a significant contribution, these are not large funds for the state but are huge funds for firefighters who will certainly know how to invest in quality and better equipment. And the problem of financing is often mentioned, the problem of funding clearly exists because firefighters are transferred to local self-government by decentralisation but should be fair and say that a certain part of the state's funding today through one percent of income tax, through the settlement fund, has nevertheless been allocated to local self-government to finance at least the regular activities of public fire departments, meaning for wages and material costs. We have a problem with how to finance the entire system because we also have voluntary fire companies that are very important in the system of fire and which, unfortunately, are completely on the burden of local self-government and it has never received any additional funds for this, and it would be necessary to at least equate people who, as firemen, are employed in voluntary fire companies to have the same status as firefighters employed in public fire departments. Here I repeat again once again the IDS Club supports the intensities of this Law, and we will support it in the first reading and our main remark is on this section relating to spatial order documents, so allow me just a few more words. We have in Article 12, the local police department is involved in the process of drafting and adopting documents of spatial order. Article 13 of the Local Police Administration and the Ministry of the Interior lays down the conditions of construction in the procedure of issuing a local authorisation. In Article 16, the competent police administration also participates in the work of the Technical Review Commission, etc., mentions the competent police administration against which I have nothing, however, in this competent police administration of my colleagues and colleagues, there are no more firefighters, the fire departments are in the public fire departments, in the voluntary fire departments, and those with this proposal have nothing, and these are the people who will have to intervene on these buildings tomorrow, put out fires, and it is not logical that they are not involved in this system of issuing the necessary spatial arrangements and I suggest that the Ministers of the Ministry of Government who are proposing these amendments to the Law to certainly involve competent units that are in this area and the competent fire commanders who should in any case be involved in any way in this process and will be responsible, because they are responsible to be responsible for this, etc. Here, so much by the IDS Club, and once again, we support this law in our first reading, and I hope you will respect these remarks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14394	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Club, Honorable Representative Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14395	Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try just a few words about this law on behalf of the SDP Club, so that I might start to think that this is one of the most important topics about which I shouldn't be politicized and about which I shouldn't be taking any flat-rates. There's been a lot of talk here about last year's fires, and I would have warned you that last year, the whole of Europe, not only Europe, but America. If you will combine the situation in terms of the squareness that burned down, the speeds of intervention, the victims, the number of inhabitants, most territories, then you will actually come up with the fact that in Croatia neither the fire department is so bad, nor is it so slow, but rather according to these results, we can, normally as much as we can be satisfied in such situations, actually be satisfied and, above all, thanks to the firefighters and the people who made a big contribution in that dam, I am taking another opportunity to thank them. I also agree with those who have spoken in fact that this opportunity should have been used to talk about this topic a little wider and more comprehensively. A team before it seemed to me that it was not necessary to rush this law because it would not have any significant implications for this summer season, or the fire season. I also hope that given the humidity and the metrognosis that we will not have the situation we had this year or some years ago. It was said here that three laws should be considered. I'd add four, when it comes to fire protection, and that's the Civil Protection Act. So, it may also have been an opportunity to discuss the plan and the programme and what was done in the fire season, and here I agree with those who have said that maybe we should talk about the plan for this year about the condition of the equipment. I will remind you, this year the fire department in Croatia will be richer for more than 10 cars, and in the next period several hundred cars built in domestic factories, where the growing domestic component is, even next year, the export component will probably exceed the import component. Since some of them are signaling me something from the bench, I remember Minister Shuker saying it was a bad business, and it's probably gonna need a review. But the fact is that 50 cars have already arrived and that everyone from the ministry is satisfied with the firemen. As for the very changes to this part of the law, I'd like to say the following. I think it's good to go into these changes and they certainly are an improvement in the current situation and the SDP Club will support these changes. But I'm going back to the point, which is, you should actually take advantage of the opportunity to change a series of other provisions. In particular, provisions relating to the prevention and method of implementation of fire protection. One part that's dedicated to that punishment. In my experience, I don't think it's a problem for the majority, or the size of the punishment. So it doesn't really matter how much punishment is paid for someone who purposely started the fire. It might be wise to look at an analytical method, a parallel method, as much as reported by investigators of the punishment of a person. You come up with a surprising record, you'll get almost as much as traffic data. No one has ever done an analysis in Croatia of how many traffic violations have been punished based on police reports. And in fact, we get into trouble, not to the level of punishment, it works educationally, but we don't have this other part where there's a realisation of that punishment. I also personally advocate not to be punished, I think you should punish those who cause a fire. But not just them. We should actually turn to those who do not do their job in prevention. What about units of local self-government that don't meet their requirements? What about state bodies that don't meet their legal requirements? What about public enterprises and everyone else who doesn't meet the legal requirements of fire protection? It's also good to go to the building's categorization. But I also think that maybe more space should be left even in the construction law itself to prescribe certain conditions, that it might even go into three categories. So in fact, you're dissipating most of this inspection part of the inspector's business. And maybe you should think about old buildings. If you look at statistical data, you will see that there are more and more fires in the facilities, in the old buildings with the old installations of bad gas, electrical installations, and there should actually be some measures, possibilities in terms of inspection to remove and solve some things. It's about the inspector's position. I agree with those who said badges mean nothing by themselves. Why? It means more to you than a credit card. You can't have a badge without a card, but you can have a badge without a badge. I don't know if it's just an intention to get back some powers, I hope not the police powers and hope not the police badge to the inspectors, because if it's just a matter of getting back some benefits and benefits as far as wages are concerned, but if they were to return police powers in the sense that the inspectors had until 2001, I don't think it's right and that police powers should only have cops. Here I would, therefore, hope that we will soon receive a whole set of four laws, the Law on Fire Protection, the Law on the Prevention of Fire, the Law on Prevention, so elemental disasters, or disasters, but also the Civil Protection Act, where the entire Corps, the Corps of Fire Protection, could then be discussed, but beyond that. One sentence. There was a reference to the fact that in Croatia when large fires cannot therefore be mobilized by the people. That's not true. It can be mobilized. You just know, when in Dalmatia it burns unlike Canada, it's a little bit of a different problem. You know, you can't bring someone who can't shut down, who doesn't know what a pine is. You can't get him to shut down in Dalmatia. Therefore, this area of civil protection should be considered here. And I agree with the IDS Club that we should still leave room for public fire departments to get involved in this whole story about issuing the necessary permits and construction papers. So, I end up, the SDP Club will support these changes, so that we think that we should go into more comprehensive changes and that we will also hope to almost get on the benches of the whole set of laws that I've been talking about and we will discuss them together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14396	Thank you. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We move on to a debate of 10, a single debate of 10 minutes. Dear Vice-President of the House Mate Arlovic. Here you go. And I apologize, it's time for the Rules of Procedure to apply for an individual hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14397	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There is no doubt that an amendment to the Fire Protection Act is necessary. However, the question arises, in what content form, scope and reach of amendments and additions? I must say that, in relation to the task that the Government of the Republic of Croatia made last year at 8 months, to prepare the draft amendments and the addition of the law, it is obvious that this amendment and the addition took a step further, because the task was related to the sanctions applicable to the persons who caused the fire. And these amendments and additions to the Law included, in fact, extending the powers of the Ministry of the Interior in the design of elaborates, or the preparation of construction works primarily of location, then building permits and in such a situation, as well as the confirmation of course regarding the use of the building, i.e. the reception of the building. I must say, in this context, the need to actually ask a serious principle question arises immediately. Namely, one is introduced between the phase and between local and construction permits and it is not possible to create an elaborate against fire protection if the basic principles of... installation and way of functioning of the facility are not defined among the projects. The design of fire protection embossed should project everything and create a fire protection embossed. A new kind of designer is also introduced, called an authorised fire protection engineer. So far, all of the project's project's project's project's designs have produced a demonstration of fire protection measures and each projector has signed it. This display of fire protection measures is part of each of the main projects' elaborates, and now a special elaborate is being introduced according to a specific project that unites these professions. It seems to me that setting up actually works for such a calling that cannot be learned which only through a professional exam. However, the expert exam is too small, the more the inspector can be freed from a professional examination, of course under the rules of the minister. One team of inspectors reviewing the draft main project consists of three inspectors and this building... Professionals, architectural professions, electrical professions and engineering professions. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] They determine the consistency of the project, because they view it not only as a demonstration of fire protection measures, but as a complete project. In this way you would have no insight into the complete project... only fire protection elaborate creates the possibility of an infinite correction of the main project if inspectors determine the lack of a conference and if they do not determine who is responsible for the exploitation of the project. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] That in this amendment and supplementation is neither foreseen nor foreseen. And in such a situation until the second reading, that question certainly needs to be considered. The second observation, which indicates that the law is in fact unarranged in one specific way, is the fact that this law, in not full 20 or 20 articles, in five articles or four articles, prescribes that the Minister of the Interior will adopt specific regulations. In one article he prescribes that he will take over, give a list... the foreign rules to be applied to us and one article prescribes that they will adopt replacement measures that can be applied in a particular situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question is, in fact, the agreement of the project ahead of us and which we are discussing today. If such a set of rules is to be passed beyond this amendment and the addition of the law, in order to actually create the possibility of their implementation. In this context, of course, I have specific remarks, and we'll say a few words about it. First of all, there's a very interesting question. It is said that the buildings in Article 4 of the building must be designed and built so that, in the event of a fire, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it, it. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Whether replacement measures can achieve compliance with these conditions. So I guess the replacement measures should prescribe that the conditions are not met, but how, what other conditions instead of these conditions you can prescribe and which are appropriate to them. Not meeting the conditions. If the conditions are met, then they are not replacement measures. It is then a regulation that ensures the implementation of these conditions, and in such a situation it is certain that we should consider what we want. That's number one. The number two should be seen because these replacement measures are in accordance with Article 89(2), given that public powers are concerned. The constitution must be published and here in the National Journal because citizens must act on it. The song, in such a situation, is quite clear that there is not enough to indicate that there will be replacement measures but must be said that what is the regulation, what kind of regulations, and that it will be published in the National Journal. It is also a similar situation with the regulation referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 3 where it is said that the Minister of the Interior will, after having implemented the opinion of the Ministry of Spatial Planning, set out the structure to which paragraph 1 of the new Article 3 is not applied. Therefore, it must also be said which regulation, probably a rule that must also be published, etc. I must point out other than these remarks where I spoke about the elaborates and the authorised fire protection engineer, so in the meantime, I need to draw particular attention to the fact that, according to Article 5, the minister is also passing a special regulation which places the buildings in the groups referred to in the preceding paragraph. It is a building, a family house, item 1 of Group 1 and a group of 2 demanding buildings, but it should also be passed in a rule that must be published because under these conditions not only on fire protection but also on the Construction Act must actually work out this regulation and comply with this law and the implementation of this law together with the Construction Act. Article 6 also states that the special regulation of the Ministry of the Interior will establish the way, procedure, submission and programme of the expert examination referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article and the conditions for the release of the planned passing of the expert examination. The question arises if it is that someone would be an authorised fire protection inspector that must have passed an expert examination as a legal condition whether it is possible by special regulation of the minister to release him and to acquire the status of an authorised inspector, fire protection engineer, if the minister has released him by some special regulation or should the law be laid down in what conditions if the minister's legal requirements can be granted to free someone from laying down those conditions. So how many years of internships, experiences, which the expert prepares, etc., that experience of fire. There is no such thing, and this should be further introduced in the law, which are legal conditions and criteria that must be obtained and met so that a special regulation can then be said in such cases by the minister or the competent person to release the examination. A special matter is related to the powers of the official card in Article 9. It is clear that it is not possible to establish powers with the official card. Also, in Article 13(2), where a prison sentence is prescribed alternatively instead of 60-day fines and prison sentences should be asked whether it is always 60 days, it may be between 30 and 60 because if the fine is alternative to 3 thousand to 10 thousand, you will not give an alternative sentence for such a fine 60 days in prison. Maybe you should put it between 30 and 60. That's what we should consider and see. In particular, I draw attention to Article 18, which says that a list of foreign rules which will apply the rules of technical practice in the field of fire protection will be adopted by the Minister of the Interior and that the list of those rules will be published in the National Journal. No, colleagues, not a list of these regulations will be published, but all of these regulations, which will establish by the Minister's list that they will be applied in the Republic of Croatia as technical rules, must be published in the National Journal because it is a ministry which has public authority and which must be made available to the public in order to actually comply with these technical rules and to comply with certain criteria and conditions in accordance with the Constitution in Article 89(2), must be published in the National Journal. Therefore, it is not enough to publish only a list of acts but must publish all acts with those rules to be established. I think that if some of these remarks are corrected until the second reading that this law would have to be quality and quite certain that it would in this way be significantly corrected and could accept criticism about these changes and additions at this stage. It is clear that the biggest observation is that the possibility of making a new Fire Protection Act is to be considered as soon as possible and to comply with the following amendments to the Construction Act, which has already been prepared for the next session of the Parliament, that this issue should also be considered and that a whole new law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14398	I thank the vice president at home. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Vucanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14399	Thank you very much. Here, just a brief clarification to Mr. Arlovic and Mr. Lucin. I consider all these remarks well-intentioned but I say I feel the need for an explanation. So far, the situation has been that, in order to meet the main project, all fire protection requirements were practically guaranteed by the designer. The designer is a technical construction profession and there was in the old Article 14 legal person registered for design, they are responsible for buildings for which special building conditions are required, fire protection measures provided for in the main project to be shown on the basis of etc., and then the legal person registered for design will carry out a verification of the same. So the designer somehow guaranteed that the project was consistent with all the fire protection measures. As a result, we have had countless times, not to ourselves, but to investors and persons who built that the measures provided for in the project were not in line with the measures prescribed by the Fire Protection Act, and therefore there was a delay in issuing a building permit. By mentioning that a new category of authorised fire protection engineers is being introduced in some way, we will prevent this because it will not be possible to obtain a building permit until the authorised fire protection engineer in advance in the previous procedure says that they, too, are authorized to produce the elaborates. Elaborat must make an expert and this is the assumption that already at the construction permit stage everything is in line with the Fire Protection Act so that it will in some way force the designers to design projects in quality and that they do not happen to submit claims for a building permit that will be delayed. I'm sure it'll definitely lead to that. As for the same authorised engineer, he won't be an inspector. It will not have any special powers to make it equally clear Article 15a), it will only be an authorised technical profession engineer with a test which will be authorised to produce an elaborate which will be the basis for the design of the project. So he's not going to have any special public powers, he's just going to be authorized to build a lab that's the basis for building a major project. It is also certain that we will in some way put investors in a position to have a guarantee that the project developed by the designer will comply with the Protection Act, with the measures laid down in the Fire Protection Act, and will again avoid the massive administration, the application for a building permit, and then the refusal of requests for non-compliance. And what Mr. Lucin asked, the same thing about authority, means those fire protection inspectors he's about to get, at least that's how this Law, or amendments to the laws that are supposed to have an official badge, will have no police authority. They will have certain powers but not police badges, and in some ways they need to be relieved of their daily work because they have problems in their daily work because they are resisting natural or legal persons where they exercise their attention because they do not have documents that are legitimate and which in some way have a certain power of public identification to facilitate their work. And that's the same thing in Article 12 that makes it possible to prevent a fire protection inspector from acting as punishable. Because there have really been a lot of cases so far that investors, i.e. natural and legal persons with whom the inspectors intended to conduct surveillance, the initialisation of fire protection measures has been disabled because of symbolic penalties and for this reason, I will not say that this will absolutely solve all the problems but will certainly facilitate the work of inspectors this official badge. So, the goal of all of this is not to in some way introduce some 100 engineers who will receive a monopoly in the design of these projects but rather to force the designers to use the services of people who are professional, who are qualified and in the end all of this will lead to the process of excerptification of building permits being shortened and to avoid all those massive returns that have so far been due to the requirements for issuing a building permit, i.e. the main projects were not in line with the measures laid down in the Fire Protection Act. Here, I just felt the need with this short... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14400	Thank you. Now allow the correction of the incorrect quote, the replica was presented by the esteemed representative Kovacevic after you, so I did not immediately give the word to the promoter. So you correct the false quote, and then you will receive a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14401	I am correcting Mr. Secretary of State in this regard that an authorised fire protection engineer has no public authority. Look, according to this Amendment and the amendment of the law, the draft on which it determines that the demanding structure meets certain conditions. Thus he guarantees his signature that he... Technically, and it's public authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's number one. Number two. The provisions of Article 4 of the applicable Law shall remain in force. It will not be answered by an authorised fire protection engineer and must be consulted by the chief designer to prepare between the elaborate phase and must pay for it, but the main designer will be responsible for what he does. So I think it's, in that segment it's illogical and that's why I'm making an observation in my debate to get rid of it until the second reading and to agree to that part, obvious... It is not someone who is responsible for someone else’s work that this authorised person is paid for and at the same time signs that part, and does not respond to this part, but the main designer referred to in Article 4 because Article 4 does not change at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14402	Yes, I thank the vice president of the House. Here, I'm sorry, we're respecting Agent Kovacevic. Replication of Vice President Dom Arlovic's statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14403	First, Mr. Vice President, I agree with this part of what Mr. Arlovic says, that is correct, as soon as he's an authorised engineer he automatically has powers and on behalf of the state he does some work, it's a matter of the General Administrative Procedure Act. But I disagree with what Mr. Arlovic said about the fact that there are now, or that there should be an opportunity for inspectors to release the obligation to pass a state-run expert exam. Namely, it's a very dangerous situation, it used to be according to the Administration Act, if it was 15 years old, so he was doing these jobs, so it was possible she had a doctorate, a master's degree. But the inspectors, according to the current regulations of the Law on civil servants and tenants and special regulations, say the State Inspectorate Act, must take a professional examination, in particular by persons who have so-called "state inspectors". expertise in order to be able to carry out an inspectorial work in the manner to be carried out means that it is able to make a record, to issue, or to write a solution to the ZUP, and to be able to file a misapplication or other appropriate procedure. And that our inspectors are so qualified, so there should be an obligation to pass a state-level expert exam, so there will be few cases of what Mr. Lucin has said with all these requests at the Criminal Court being rejected or rejected because he has not done his part of the task. But I also find it ridiculous that we are talking today about having inspectors who have no authority, or have no IDs. So what kind of inspectors are these? Do we have inspectors or don't we have inspectors? Yeah. Look, the inspector has to be ID'd when he comes somewhere that he's authorized to do that and that, that he's an inspector. And now we're regulating that variant, which is actually funny, no wonder this condition is protected from fire. We have an inspector with no authority. No ID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14404	I thank the esteemed representative Kovacevic. The reply to the replica of Doma Arlovic's vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14405	Dear colleagues and colleagues, me, it is a special honor and pleasure to meet my colleague Kovacevic. However, I ask that, of course, the regulation that I'm talking about be examined before it can be replicated. Because you did not replicate to me but agreed with me, colleague Kovacevic, because in Article 15a, paragraph 6, I quote: "The Minister of the Interior will prescribe the way, procedure, laying down and program of the expert examination referred to in paragraph 4 of this article and the conditions for the release of the expert exam.". Dear colleague, it is clearly said in this segment that this Law will empower the minister to free someone from passing an expert exam, I did not speak of it, but spoke of it by law. This is number one, and I was talking about something else, if such legal possibility is to be confirmed then it must be possible to establish the legal conditions when and if it is acquired, it is possible to get rid of a professional exam rather than so that the arbitrary minister determines it by his will. This is number 1, number 2, as regards the card, or the official badge, so you know on no official badge they write powers but the official badge means, here is the word, the inspectors in paragraph 1 of this article prove... the identity, authority and official identity card and official badge. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Dear colleague, that's cumulative. Therefore, you cannot prove by badge what powers you have, but the badge suggests that if you have these powers you will get the badge. It's something else, and there should simply be this issue of power solved. The law lays down the powers that the inspector has and not the badge. The badge only assumes that he can be legitimateized and confirm his identity that he is the person he's talking about. So, it's quite something else and I'm asking you, my colleague, of course, to replicate to me every time, but before that, look at the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14406	Thank you. I'm guessing you'll be using the Rules of Procedure's injury plate wrongly. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14407	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14408	No, he's not hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14409	Look, variant... Mr. Arlović did not read article 15a until the end, I was saying [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] about inspectors,... [[Intruder: No, no injured article 209. You have no right to speak!]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14410	Article 209 is not injured. I'm asking you to sit down and it's not It's not. [[/Intruder: How did he not get hurt?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14411	I'm talking about inspectors and he's talking about authorized persons? That's two different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14412	No injured article 209.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14413	It's pears and apples mixing.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14414	No injured article 209. Vice President of the House responded to the replica. He responded to your line and he can speak in terms of the theme [[Intruder: He did not respond because he mixed pears and apples.]] I'm asking you to sit down and you didn't get your word. [[I was talking about inspectors.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14415	How come I didn't win when I was talking?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14416	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14417	But, counterpart Kovacevic injured Article 214, paragraph 1, subparagraph 4, because he started talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the incorrect allegation and I didn't say it at all. This is referred to in Article 209, paragraph 2. talks about an incorrect indication, not...... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14418	I said you didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, so it's not even about this case, is it? We hope we're done with this part. It's time for the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14419	Thank you very much. Since I was unable to read in the explanation of this Bill’s proposal whether or not they gave opinions in its preparation, those who were supposed to implement the Law are firefighters. I asked experts to put out the fires, so the Međimurje County Fire Department specifically asked me to warn those two things. And I'm using Mr. Secretary of State's presence to give these two serious warnings to me. Thus, the amendments to the law regulate procedures from the moment of drafting projects, major projects and obtaining consent, confirmation and whatever it takes in the jurisdiction of the police in terms of fire protection. And if, unfortunately, there's a fire, then that fire should be put out by firemen and not by cops. So what happens now? The fire department, either fire commander or fire commander in any way, shall not receive any information in particular in the buildings referred to in Group 2, Article 5 where specific fire protection measures are necessary and shall not be able or prepared to carry out that, in the event of a fire god, they may not effectively put out that fire, nor shall they have a main fire protection plan or threat assessment plan for such installations, on the basis of which any fire unit could prepare an intervention plan for each such facility in Group 2. And that's why they're proposing. Yes or in Article 5 or in Article 7 of the amendments and additions, but in the parent law, this should be Article 16 and you will see where to install, mandatory local police administration or the Ministry of Interior, where it gives confirmation of the main project for buildings of Group 2, for newly built, built or renovated buildings, an assessment of the threat or fire protection plan to the central fire department or to the fire commander. They will allow their intervention plan for each such building to adapt not only to the main project but also to the technical examination and reception of the facility in which a representative of the local police administration or the Ministry of Interior and no one from the fire department participates again. This is therefore the first request from firefighters and I would kindly ask that if there is any need for further explanations, probably all the other firefighters in Croatia will also confirm that because of the existing legal regulations and practices they are in the handicap. And another request. Someone mentioned today that these days it is already or Croatia's firefighters will be dedicated to the use of 15 new special fire trucks. The purchase plan included a total or still 120 vehicles, and the distribution criterion prescribed and still valid is approximately 15 km away from the central or nearest public fire department and has at least 2 employed firefighters in a permanent working relationship. Since they wanted to be rational and save money and not hire professional firefighters before the age of vehicles and equipment because they have nothing to work on before that age, they now do not meet the conditions to get equipment and a fire vehicle. So first they had to hire and spend money without any equipment and then wait for whether and when they would get and the criterion is exclusive, hard and rigid. The Međimurje firefighters in particular warn that during the last fire-fighting season only they spent 733 working days on the coast, 567 days of which were given by volunteer firemen with 3 vehicles and the youngest TAM 5500 is therefore 24 years old and the FAB 32 years old, from 13 June to 8 September, so they are probably already on the ground. That such vehicles and such equipment must themselves be prepared and serviced, and for the last year they received a fee of 25 thousand kuna for destroyed and stolen equipment during duty, with still a debt of about 15 thousand for pipes and tires that were either destroyed or stolen. Connecting to this criterion, 15 kilometers away and 2 compulsory professionals no such vehicle under these criteria will ever be able to reach Međimurje County. So kindly please and ask both of these suggestions or try to think and see and allow professionals and volunteer firefighters to be informed in time of all the promises in Group 2, fire protection plans because they are not involved either in the development of the main project or in the technical reception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14420	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The next is the respected representative of the town of Zvonimir Mršić. He's not in the hall. He's losing his word. Next up is a colleague of Ivana Sučec-Tracostanec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14421	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here I would join the support of course of these changes although of course I am and, of course, one who expects in the future and more systematic changes to the well-being of fire. Since I also come from northwestern Croatia where for centuries and a half there is protection and fire-fighting and rescue based on a voluntary base, and in recent times because of the lack of funds and decentralisation which, of course, means almost nothing in poor municipalities, equipment on a voluntary basis, therefore enthusiasm, leisure time, own resources and funds of sponsors are the basis on which they are based in smaller places and the work of the fire community and all those societies that make them. So I would say that I am also one of those who thinks that this law should also be added in Article 5 a small item which is therefore said to be delivered to voluntary fire companies or to the fire community by one example of the elaborates for extremely important buildings in the area of the local community of Group 2. This is one thing and, of course, I expect that in future amendments to the law will be more precise and more clearly defined this relationship between these units, these professional and voluntary fire companies, given both distance and number of employees and everything they have to meet because today the situation is not good and I also hope that these problems present at present in the punishment of those who did not arrive at the time will meet all the formal conditions regarding the rents, the preparations and everything else will have fewer problems. I am now in this law reading Article 6 of the Law and thinking that it is in paragraph 6 when talking about exemption and about the exceptions of passing the expertise of exams and personally I am prone to exceptions, because then every honour is left to the minsiter to our present and to each of the following. Jendo's discretionary right that he can and doesn't always have to be good. So it was thought of those who, when the law enters into force, already have acquired professional qualifications and formal conditions. So I would suggest that those words be deleted and that a new item should be added to give the rooms that meet the conditions for the signing of the drafts at the time of the application of this Act are and, to be counted and not to be left with the discretionary right which, at later stages, would exempt those who would not have to take that expert examination from the unknown reasons. And I'm not sure I'm going to ask again if it's 30 days to speed up the adoption of that building permit or not, because no matter where it's being done, so he's in a lie in the process of issuing a building permit, so now this deadline that exists is legally only, in fact, still extending for an additional 30 days, even though he's been formulated by the police, to be carried out prior to the submission of a formal application for a building permit in those offices that issue a building permit. So, I think that deadline could be three days apart, so I suggest that it be 15 days if that's possible. If this does not require additional people to hire in the ministry who would work with these businesses.a And of course I expect that the taking care of systematic preventive action in the protection against fires and in the plans of local communities and, of course, some fear of future penalties that this Law further tightens there. And I repeat, one whole and systematic solution within the country's overall rescue system, to improve the position of voluntary fire companies, which is, it says, to me as well as to the former head of a small municipality in particular in the interest. At least it's often said that it's a folklor or I don't know any other association, with today's situation where many societies have equipped and special vehicles to help in traffic accidents, unfortunately where the situation with fires is good, so where the fire has less of their greatest activity at this hour is the rescue of those who are unhappy in heavy traffic accidents on our overloaded roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14422	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is counterpart Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14423	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues. Well, here's a few words because a lot of things have already been said and I wanted to talk about, but maybe I should also join those who in some ways tried to draw attention to the relationship between professional firefighters and voluntary fire companies, namely the status of a well-being. And we know very well that fires and fires don't choose where they're going to break out, but burn where, at some point, unfortunately, the creature is going to be alive. I come from a town from Makarska that has a long tradition and how well-organized a voluntary fire company, but I know that in many environments it is not so. And I think it's one of the tasks that should be regulated as soon as possible and legally regulated, i.e. going into a change of Tucson so that what we're talking about is actually regulated, and that because I'm afraid that we're going to get into a situation that will no longer be a problem of equipment, that there will be no problem with the vehicle, because it seems to me that the fire departments as far as this is concerned are quite well managed. But we're going to get into a situation where with this equipment, there's really no one to work with, because we're not going to have a man who's going to have enthusiasm with the base of enthusiasm and volunteerism doing this and if you're going to do important jobs. One more thing that's also been talked about, and that's fire protection inspectors. Namely, new MUPA facilities, fire protection inspectors, carry out their jobs under the law on civil servants and tenants, i.e. they lost the status of authorised official. As a result, the inspection of their operations has been coerced to legal action to seek assistance from police officers, to carry out a fire-fighting inspection of inspection or conduct at the request of the parties. That way of handling that must be implemented in order to comply with the legal rules is greatly complicated by the work being inspected on the ground and also significantly increases both material and other costs because, in fact, where one person is to be carried out on a percentage basis, they are now carrying out two. The proposed law stipulates that this is in some way overcome by issuing official IDs and badges that would actually be prescribed by their form by the minister. I think it's actually a lonely part of the problem because the badge, the card, only kind of gives one façade, but maybe it should be reglazed by law in some other way. It means that the law knows exactly what the new authority of the inspectors is now in this box. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14424	Thank you very much, dear colleague. My colleagues and fellow representatives, upstairs at the gallery are doing high school from Konjska with their teachers and I ask you to welcome them. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament. [[Applause]] Next up for the debate, Honored Representative Ante Markov, please elect a fellow representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14425	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues. Surely, of all the elemental disasters, the fires in its continuity are also the most significant in its strength, as well as in its precise weather dynamics. They're the hardest to face, and it's clearly the kind of thing that firefighters repeat that the fire goes out before it breaks out. According to this prevention and overall action is something that is crucial and precisely the fact that the intensity of a fire that clearly has a seasonal character and where the highest impact of the coast is islands, coastal areas, contributes to the fact that this is a very serious social challenge, which needs to be dealt with systematically. Of course, in this systematic resolution and amendment and addition of fire protection laws, which make us certain, as well as certain forms in terms of quality consideration of the existing fire protection law, are trying to bring into the context of the new Construction Act and certain operational measures that are essential for the system organisation and the fight against fires... and these dilemmas that have been discussed and which have been accepted in some way by the promoter, say that there is an agreement that through these amendments and additions, this matter is tried to be systematised, better organised and ultimately to strengthen better the framework of action in that part of which it is concerned. [[You don't understand.]] Of course that won't be enough, of course, that's not enough, because the fires unfortunately no one wants them, but in terms of time and opportunity they will also appear this tourist season and if you ask the firefighters, if you ask local self-government representatives, if you talk to the citizens they will make very clear... that was also the case during last year's big fires that were on Croatian islands to state what is the fundamental reason. There has definitely been a change of landscapes, there have been new cultures that have not been traditional in these areas. The very fact that hundreds of years ago in the area of Dalmatia and the island was considered by experts over 30 million olive trees, that an adequate half of that area was covered by vineyards, and that today we have only four or maybe five million olive trees, that the number of vineyards has been significantly reduced and that the total space has replaced another kind of culture or as they call it not an Alebese pine which is one of the most active cultures compared to fires. Unfortunately, there was also action in the planting of these Alebic pines, so there are areas that are now fully inhabited by this Alebic pine that simply causes fire, causing fires, and destroying everything that is touched, including these cultures that I was talking about. Therefore, the fight against fires and prevention that is necessary in order to ensure that in the areas that resources are valuable, and in these areas there are activities that are very important, strategic for this country, which is tourism, traffic, trade, they say in favour of the fact that in solving this problem it is necessary to have a whole plan that should involve more factors of various aspects of combat in order, first of all, to bring this attractive landscape to that way of relation to nature, the feathers of cultural heritage and the landscape that is in the interest and people, and which will be inactive to fires rather than passive to fires, because, as you know, it is very difficult to burn as it is in some other cultures. But at this point we have on the coastal areas, the coast of the island coasts almost 30% of the burned areas, areas that were burned by the last year or before, and for which the community, society did not find an adequate answer. It's a shame, because by the nature of things, if people and society don't give an answer, nature will give the same answer again, then there will come the Alebese pine again, and it is already in those places in the effort. Therefore, for these burned areas, it is necessary to carry out a full action in cooperation with local self-government, but clearly in one strong role of the central government, which must be regulated by law, that these areas, and unfortunately, which was this summer and visited the islands that were burned, were once a harmony in nature, that there were streets that led to certain plots, that there were exactly areas where any culture existed. After the fire, there was actually a picture of what it looked like 40 years ago when the fires couldn't happen. So it's just one of the many warnings that nature sends to us the heirs of this civilization that we have to take care of the future, that we have to make sure that this resource that we have preserved, that we use it in a positive way, not that every year the fire takes care of it and that it brings trouble, and I'm saying that even if we should learn something from it, that it burned the areas that testify to what it was and what it could be into that role and that function that belongs to that country. Therefore, by wanting to support these amendments and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, I think it's time for the government to try completely to focus on the overall resolution of this problem, whether through the new Fire Protection Act, whether through other laws related to this matter, whether through specific actions, but in any case we have to learn about mistakes, because if we are repeated then we don't take care of it. I appeal that plans under the auspices of various different associations of government and NGOs, human and local, are implemented in the sense of some green and various other associations that are trying to bring this kind of fire to the point, give their contribution. There are also various commercial institutions, public institutions. I think it's time that both the resorient ministries, and they are more at this point, lead and contribute to this fundamental resource being what it should be, which is to serve man, and that nature is protected in the way that it is in line with the interests and needs of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14426	Thank you, colleague. The following has been registered for discussion by Honorable Representative Jozo Topic. Here you go. He's gone? Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14427	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also join those who support this proposal to amend and supplement this law and it is good that the Ministry of Interior has come to the Assembly within a relatively short time with this proposal on amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act, because this topic is really very relevant what we have heard from many previous speakers. These amendments and additions to the Fire Protection Act want to bring the Fire Protection Act into line with the Construction Act in that part of the law relating to the procedure relating to spatial planning and construction, i.e. obtaining the necessary documentation, i.e. location and construction permits. These amendments and amendments to the Fire Protection Act will simplify, hopefully speed up the process of obtaining certain documentation. Of course, it is also important that this tightening of sanctions for those who, by their indifference and non-compliance with fires, have already talked a lot about the severe consequences of fire especially in this coastal area, so that we can say that this proposal is particularly relevant for our coastal area for reasons of fire protection because the fires there have been frequented in the summer months, and also in this segment of construction, i.e. devasting the area, which is now very current with these demolition measures. Of course, with the adoption of this Law, it is necessary to pass all sublaws as soon as possible so that this Law could be applied very quickly. It is also necessary to bring all legislative, sublegislative acts into line with the Construction Act because it is very important to finally introduce order in this segment, in the construction and environmental protection segment. Because in the construction segment there were, and unfortunately there are still a lot of inaccurate legal provisions, which make it difficult to carry out the necessary documentation, various permits and consent, this still needs to be added to the often inconsistencies of the state administration and inspection services, and all of these factors are often the cause of these unwanted phenomena and riots in space. For the sake of illustration, I'm going to give some examples of practice, this example has been present for a long time, it's about getting fire-fighting consent in the old city cores. The existing Fire Protection Act has been established or defined that the fire-fighting approach to the building to be built or adapted must have a width of at least 3 metres and, among other things, to open the door naturally to the outside. This standard and this provision is to welcome when it comes to new construction, when it comes to buildings outside of these old city centers that are often monuments of culture, the building heritage, however, in these same old city cores this requirement and that provision of the Law is impossible to respect because we are all aware especially in this coastal work, in our old cities are the width of the streets often and less than 2 meters. You can imagine what it would look like if you had to have a three-foot fire escape and you opened the door to the outside defact that you would have prevented the passage on the street. So that provision has caused great problems for investors and of course for citizens. At the local level in the administration they were aware of this problem, however, they could not solve it because they did not have appropriate sublaws, so the question arises which is why, in this case, the poor coordination of the administration at a lower and higher level, so that the local administration at a lower level did not have the opportunity to draw attention to the higher level of this problem, which really creates problems in obtaining consent and, of course, later in obtaining a building permit, in other words investors were often forced to break the law or build without a building permit. This illogicality has been tempered by it should be recognised by the adoption of the Fire Department Regulations I think it was brought in last year in September. And this proposal of the current Law has removed this flaw and it has been properly resolved which is to be welcomed. I believe that this government in this case this Ministry in the administration system will allow the smooth application of the Law and sublegal regulations and will quickly remove the perceived shortcomings so that these cases that I was just talking about don't happen. This government, the current government, is aware of the non-compliant legal regulations in this area of protection and rescue, and if I am not mistaken at the February 12th session in Split, it should be noted and commended, the professional services of the Ministry of the Interior to make the following drafts of the law and these are the first Law on Protection and Rescue, the Second Fire Protection Act, the Third Civil Protection Act, and, finally, the Fourth Law on Protection against the Fire that we are just discussing. By passing this package of the Law, it is very important that the relevant services and institutions could act better and more coherently to protect and prevent fires. But in fact, it's not like that right now, so let me give you an example, for example, the State Department for Protection and Rescue and there is no Law on Protection and Rescue. I think that this law should be passed as soon as possible because it is better to have any law than none, and right now the Protection and Rescue Authority should initiate and encourage its hasty adoption, and the adoption of the Fire Department should finally address the problem of the structure that colleagues have already talked about, commanding and financing in the fire department. Today we have such a situation in which a voluntary fire department and a public fire department are joined in Croatia's fire community, and operational command over them is part of the Department of Fire Department of the Ministry of the Interior. There is almost no understanding in practice between these two state institutions, and therefore there are problems in the field that we do not need at all. If the Croatian Fire Department wants to be the bearer of fire protection, it needs to be reorganized and the main role should be taken over by a person with a professional relationship to the profession and no one as naked... I see it's already burning red, so I'm gonna try to skip one piece.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14428	You guys are gonna have to finish, not skip.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14429	Well, if it has to be, and in the end, I support this proposal to amend and supplement the Fire Protection Act. But I also remind and appeal to the Ministry of the Interior that it is necessary to make and deliver to the Assembly as soon as possible the laws I have spoken of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14430	Thank you very much. The following is reported for the debate by representative Anton Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14431	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a first reading of the Amendment Act and the amendments to the Fire Protection Act, which, as counterpart Lucin Club SDP said, will support. We will support it, not because it is comprehensive, but because it offers some improvements compared to the existing law which is not controversial. The fire in our country is due to its specific position and climate conditions that adorn the Mediterranean climate indeed is a natural disaster, which leaves behind catastrophic consequences, the devastated Adriatic islands and coasts, as a particular area of our country. Let us only remember last summer when the entire islands and especially valuable localities by the sea died in the fires. Parts of specially protected parts of nature, part of national parks and ornithological reserves were also suffering. Even before our eyes, we had a horrendous picture of the outcast birds, the burnt rare bird species, who were left because of the fire because of their natural habitats. Parts of the Botanical Parks were also suffering, and in them are particularly valuable and rare species of vegetation. For this reason, to the extent that this is possible, to remove the very severe consequences of fire and to resuscitate the burned surface, I personally consider it necessary to intervene among other laws and the Law on the Croatian Forests, and to find the possibility of setting fire to the Mediterranean cultures, I am thinking primarily of olives. We in Istria County want to allow the planting of olive trees on the burned forest surfaces, for example, a scary picture along the road direction of Vodnjan-Pula, where the burned-out forest would be formally said, and it is in fact some of the foreign species of Aleppo Bora, which was spoken of by fellow Markov and formally for the reason that the registered forest cannot exist even though there is the will and desire and resources of the Istrian County in these burned areas to plant olive trees. When my colleague Markov talked about the change of landscapes, the landscape reminded me of some customs from our history of people living at the School by the sea, when the newlyweds were obliged to plant an olive tree or fig tree before marriage, and this tells enough about the need to preserve some cultures that were traditionally along the Adriatic coast. I think today, that it couldn't have been in front of the altar before you planted a fig tree or an olive tree, and that's why today I think we should intervene and allow these surfaces to plant exactly those natural Mediterranean cultures of ours. Because I'm deeply convinced that in these burned areas it's better to have an olive tree than a maquis, which is what happens today. Last season was really an extreme season of unfavourable weather conditions when it comes to fire, and I really hope and wish that this Croatian government would not have any problems with the fires that the former government was facing and which was criticised frequently, very without arguments. Instead of criticism, I think it is more important for a number of firefighters who have often put their lives on the line and wish them and our citizens a more peaceful season ahead of us. I say we will support the bill's amendment although it will not have a direct impact on the upcoming season, because I think it should go on a wider basis. In the eliminated negative consequences resulting from the fires, the most effective measures shall be achieved if the fire-fighting measures of all citizens are continuously implemented and fire prevention measures implemented. A sense of responsibility and fire training must create from each of our citizens the responsibility of the fireman, and the best fireman is the one who does everything he can to avoid the fire. When the fire has already occurred, unfortunately, the most important thing is to detect the fire at an early stage, so that it can intervene effectively in time. Fireworks and fire-infrastructures, which unfortunately do not pay attention to the necessary attention, are key elements in preventing both the creation and the prevention of the spread of fires when it has already occurred. We have certainly positive experiences in which, for example, from the area that I come from Istria County to which I hold that the fire system is well-organised, an observation service is organized that assists in the tip-up system and thus achieves efficiency in protection without talking about a number of voluntary fire companies that are increasingly organized every day. Given the specificity of our country and the Adriatic area, i.e. the area from which I come and given the fact that Croatia is a maritime country, which is often not valorized enough. I think it is necessary to intervene between the technical means that are supplied, supplied and fire-fighting units on the coast in order to be able to intervene in those parts of our coast and islands in time, where, apart from coming by sea, it is not possible to intervene, and it is often in these places that further spreads across the island, as we know last year and leaves behind catastrophic consequences. This began with positive examples and in the county from which I come, hear both in Rab and elsewhere. However, it is especially important to take care and equip, for we must not forget that we are indeed a maritime, coastal Adriatic Mediterranean country. Finally, I agree with the change, I speak to the members and to the legal provisions that speak of stricter measures, greater penalties. However, I do not think the problem will be solved, but the problem is more specific to our Croatian society. The problem is the implementation of these measures, and I think we should think about it in particular. Finally, I hope that the motionary will also follow some of the good suggestions given in these discussions and submit to another reading one consistent bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14432	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next up is colleague Pero Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14433	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Today we hear that we in Croatia have a miserable system of protection and rescue, so the system of fire, the system of that system. Well, we don't have any systems organized. If we had a system, then please act. First of all, we start over. We're really starting from the beginning, we used to have civil protection that was teamed up, trained, which had even specialized civil protection units that were just involved in protection and rescue actions and we know they were well equipped and teamed up. As the current state of civil protection and you know it yourself, the equipment it had was destroyed, not designed. It's a matter of condition in shelters. So, we don't have civil protection, we only have it on paper. We don't even have a proper fire system, because we know what our fire system is, volunteer troops have brans, they have a dam, they have nothing. Therefore, we have neither systems nor equipped with real civil protection or equipped with real fire. And that's why we're already in the first session and we've been out before, we need to form a state administration for a system of protection and rescue because we're not such a rich country. So we have to have all the strengths and possibilities of material and other benefits in one place so that organized and teamed up in all cases, whether it's about prevention, whether it's about environmental elemental disasters, any other phenomenon, dangers like fire and all other things. To do so first took us a long time, then the government accepted that part of us and in the latest paper of the Law establishing ministries and state administrations included the establishment of a state administration for a system of protection and rescue. Since it was a clumsy thing to do, we had to react with the amendment because it wasn't said at all when it started with this new state administration so it was included because it starts with 1.1. Now, in order for this state administration to start working on what we have to bring. We need to get a set of regulations. There's more to it than that. The first option is to keep everything in one single law, let's say, the Law on the System of Protection and Rescue, where there will be an issue of elemental disasters, where civil protection, fire, where the issue of fire protection and everything will be resolved. So that's one possibility both legal and theoretical. Another possibility is that we have four special laws. Therefore, both options can legally stand, but let's start with these possibilities. We didn't do anything on that part. Look, this is a small part of what's contained here. Normally, everyone supports it but the question is when will this come to a second reading because this won't have any effect on, say, this year's season of fire when another reading will come. Therefore, let us not be so full of praise as to do something. He won't do anything. Therefore, we propose to the government we have finished and laws on the system of protection and rescue and all other things to go seriously with this problem. The first variant is that it is normally solved and used in one place. The second thing is to start already with the establishment of a state administration for protection and rescue because not to get into a variant will come 1.1 per year, it's close to time and then we'll start that state administration for a year and it'll take over jobs from the Ministry of Defense. One part of the information system, one part of the Ministry of the Interior, and in the end it's going to be a year and we're not going to establish a system. We also talked a lot about how much more can be achieved in prevention. One of the possibilities of prevention is our project, we know that in Croatia we have over a thousand hunting sites. All these hunting grounds are given in concessions, they have tycoons and even fences. They consider it a small amount and our variant is old enough to establish a public institution that will manage these national hunting grounds in the name of the state and thus enable employment of both developed Croatian defenders and other people, because for the beginning of each of these hunting grounds, five defenders can be employed. The use is multiple. These defenders, or unemployed, first of all, protect themselves from the theft of savages, protect against the theft of mineral raw materials and everything else that is... They keep the border, they can also observe and observe fires at the same time, and at the same time they can grow game and thus still earn. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we have a variety of options, but we need to go once. We know our own concept of the state line. Our country's border is like Swiss cheese. We also have the latest State Department statement regarding the smuggling of people and persons through Croatia. In that part and that part we can use. Remember sometimes how every municipality and town had an obligation and Croatian forests make an average because we know what the situation with the fire is. An average must be made so that strength and resources can be brought in to shut down, but unfortunately this was always the world of the Rab municipality, or the city of Rab, which they did, and therefore they do not have. They've had systematic prevention for years since 70 and some years, and that should be done everywhere. So take other parts of Croatia. There used to be needles under the pines and everything else because it's known what kind of situation and potential it is, but it looks like we're still coming into a variant of who's causing the fire. She was always a winged woman, says storks bring glass into the nest then the sun hits it and the nest is lit and there's fire. The second one was a variant says the train goes, the spark is thrown, there's no weed cut and there's a fire. So let's be aware, we need to make a system, the system needs to be effective and we don't have time anymore. We are running out of time, and only at this moment can St. Ante and God help us not to be too hot this year because if anything happens, there will be situations happening again. Mr. Lucin here spoke of under the Law on Protection against elemental disasters is the exact thing that can mobilize the population on protection and rescue but unfortunately it wasn't used but we saw when people's fires happen. The tourists are shutting down and our local people are watching. Therefore, what part of this means to us is the organisation of legal regulations. So that's the variant of trying to bring together these regulations now that will effectively regulate, we're not so rich that we can spread out, that one part has civil protection, that the other part has this part. We use all the funds in one place through the State Protection and Rescue Authority and the facility must be the way in these protection and rescue actions whether it's about fire or something else must be military, it must be known who's doing what's doing, who's giving orders and not going to that deal that my colleague Ruža was talking about friendly relationships because we know that one part of the Ministry of the Interior is part of the fire, that part of the county's which is their jurisdiction, municipalities and cities have the fire departments of this charity. And what's going on here? It happens there's no real system of leadership and command. The real system of leadership and command is known who, what and how it does, when looking for a canadian because we have variants, say, this thing with a helicopter. Look, when he throws that small amount of water, it doesn't have that efficiency of some kind. It can only be at first if there's a fire. After that, when he throws it, he can fuel another fire. So let us not, let us also be aware of the real situation in which we do not agree, and let us start by having a system of protection and rescue established at least next year as legally and organisationally and effectively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14434	Thank you very much. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations by MP Doric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14435	I wanted to say that it is not correct that counterpart Kovacevic generalized the situation in the fire department because your assessment certainly does not stand and does not apply to the Primorje-Gorski County. Since 1993, great efforts have been made to obtain dozens and dozens of vehicles, equipment, excellently installed clear service, and therefore it is not by chance that we have much less fires than in other parts of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14436	Thank you very much. Next up is representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14437	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr Secretary of State! Of course, after all these discussions today, it's hard to talk about the consequences of the fire. I would focus and focus on the problems that bother really all those who deal with this problem and I personally talked to the public unit specifically in Dubrovnik from which I come, so I come from an area that is highly risky about the fire and there are really a lot of problems at different levels to try and solve and I think I also agree with my colleague Kovacevic that it will probably be late for this season but then at least prepare ourselves for future or at least this year to avoid some problems that occur in the fire system. In fact, it seems to me, above all, necessary to revise plans to protect against the fires of local units of self-government because these plans unfortunately do not correspond to reality and very often are the cause of misunderstandings and very often because of these plans, it comes to the creation of a false picture in the public that these areas are protected, that voluntary fire companies that most often cover these areas can effectively protect this area. Unfortunately, it happens quite the opposite in practice. I'm going to give an example that seems important to me to paint that condition. In particular, in a small settlement in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, 20 members of a voluntary fire company were reported in a fire protection plan. However, there is not even so many people in that village, and the population that exists is, of course, the most ancient and powerless to resist a single fiery verse at all. Therefore, for various reasons, whether because of manipulation, whether because of satisfying the form of making a plan to protect against fires, whether because the local unit itself does not have the means to pay for at least one professional firefighter in the area is actually going to have this delusion and there is actually a danger that when a fire occurs in that area that no one will actually be able to intervene and of course that the fire will affect a much larger area than it would be if by any chance a professional were in that area. Therefore, it is extremely important and eager to revise the plans of protection against the fires of local units and to determine really how much the number of professional personnel who know how to handle, above all, the tools available to them but who can also reach out in time and actually prepare and arrive those units that are coming after that, whether the public unit is professional or voluntary fire companies that need to be animated and which should actually be in the notification system as soon as possible and dragged into the place where the fire broke out. In addition, there is a problem with the system of command, I must say specifically that in the county from which I come, despite the fact that the law entered into force on 1 January 2000, we do not yet have a county and fire-fighting centre and, unfortunately, the obligation is being passed on to the public fire departments formed both in Dubrovnik and in other cities and unfortunately in such a system very often when it comes to covering the costs of these same units. Namely, in order for a particular unit to enter the site affected by the fire, it is necessary for someone to give the order to take that public unit and go to the site. The very fact that a unit covering a specific unit of local self-government, such as Dubrovnik, remains in its area without a number of professional firefighters and is therefore more endangered in the summer months when we know that several fires in the same local self-government units or in the wider area of the county are very often fired. In particular, in Dubrovnik County, it is the most common case that at the same time at least three out of four fires occur in different parts of the county that are otherwise stretching freely really suitable for the spread of different types of fires and it is really very difficult to respond to this fire-extinguishing task in the area. So in these situations, of course, it is necessary to get out on the ground as soon as possible, but at the same time, whoever is calling for a public fire department is also required to provide for additional meetings for such an exit or at least to be specified in the system if it is not possible for that unit of local self-government to take those costs, then at least the County or the Ministry to take care of who will cover those costs. These are the problems that are very often crucial in putting out certain fires. Because what's going on? In particular, the county commander does not want to give the order so that the county, or its unit, of the county, would not bear the cost of shutting down the fire. And, of course, the fire is spreading, and that county commander must then alert the ministry or must call on the canaders, tractors, etc., and generate significantly higher costs than that system initially works and date the professionals in time. The system of professionals in smaller places is quite efficient and according to my experience and knowledge it is really necessary, especially in the islands in smaller places because this professional really knows what and how he can do in a short time, get on the ground and very often and prevent the spread of fire and even the arrival of a fire unit. So that's something we need to deal with, it's probably going to be about the question, about the Fireman Act, which is probably going to come to us on the agenda, but here we're already warning these, these phenomena. I also think it is necessary to resolve the issue very quickly and urgently in the border areas of our firemen's exits in the event of a fire right on the territory of the neighbouring, neighbouring country, here I am thinking first of all about our county that borders largely with Bosnia and Herzegovina and where very often the fires from neighbouring BIH are transferred to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In order to prevent this, because bigger fires have been prevented, because when they move to our area they are already in a wide area and it is very difficult to put them out, in order to prevent, of course, there are talks, negotiations with the neighbouring country, but there is no systematic, systematic solution to this problem and it is really necessary to resolve it urgently. I hope that there are conversations now and they are ongoing, but let's hope that in this season we can solve this issue because I say, very often these fires come from our backs and I think we need to settle them through a contract with the neighbouring country, the way our firefighters want to get out just to prevent a wide ring from coming out into the area of the neighbouring country to prevent the spread of the fire. There were also a lot of words here and about how certain equipment is given and how it is obtained. I hope that there will never be another situation where, for political reasons, it is promised in the pre-election time that a smaller municipality will get a fire vehicle if members of that same voluntary fire department join a party. I think it's embarrassing and catastrophic, unfortunately, such phenomena have been, I don't particularly want to apostrophe them here in terms of appointments and municipalities and persons. But I don't think such things should really happen and that, on the sole basis of the legal requirements, that equipment must be allocated. And also in this law that we are talking about today, I think we need to take care of the fact that rightly in the most endangered areas we have historical environments that cannot meet the conditions of building conditions that are here and prescribed and really need to take care of what kind of vehicles to help get these environments so that these vehicles can even enter such urban environments because we know that often these standard vehicles can't, I can't respond to these laws specifically, I say these historic environments of Dubrovnik, Trogir, all these smaller areas of coastal which also have a long tradition of voluntary fire. Therefore, they need to be helped to obtain equipment that will respond to their conditions and which will actually ensure a normal ceasefire and in such environments in which it appears most often. Unfortunately, human losses are the hardest in all the fires. And that's why I also want to thank all those who put their lives in danger. Very often by putting out fires in areas where there are still lagging mine-explosive resources, and indeed these people need to be recognized for everything they do, but here we are also trying to enable them to work in as good a way as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14438	Thank you very much, colleague. Next is my colleague, Korenik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14439	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State. I must admit that I expected that in the adoption of amendments to this Act which I do not think is comprehensive that we will receive or at least hope to receive a whole series of laws until another reading that will solve the area and help solve crisis situations in the territory of the Republic of Croatia from, for example, the Rescue Act to the Civil Protection Act. I must say that I do not agree with those who claim that there is no fire system in Croatia. It exists, it is organized better or less quality, unfortunately without wanting to generalise, but we must admit that it is far more developed in the continental part of Croatia than it is on the coast. And especially in the system of voluntary fire companies. No one's ever come to this high house, done an analysis, I expect we might get to another reading, and that's what we're gonna get. We know how many voluntary fire companies there are, for example, in continental Croatia to, for example, on our coast. They can't and can't expect that only the state, through public fire departments, will solve the problem of fire protection through professionals. By the way, a voluntary or organised fire department is over a hundred years old in Croatia and the first voluntary fire assembly is established in Varazdin and should be said about it because in the continental part of Croatia, voluntary fire companies are not only where firefighters are trained, where equipment is purchased, but also additional education is carried out. I had this honor a week ago, I have to say, I was present in the Municipality of High in Varazdin County where 30 young men, young men and girls finished training and got diplomas to be appointed by firefighters. Thirty young people on, in a municipality that has about 1,500 inhabitants, mean that they will be able to carry out prevention and will always be ready to work on fire protection. What are the problems today, and what can be done to address this Law? I am for raising the penalty for those who cause fires but I also claim that only repression will unfortunately not achieve better and better quality fire protection. We have to be aware ourselves that the Croatian state is a lot of need, primarily of financial nature, in order to settle everything we need, but we need to be aware that our equipment and technical means are both insufficient and obsolete. In the area of Varazdin County other than public units and honor to those who are in voluntary fire companies that are in cities that are more financially powerful, this equipment is over 30 years old. Sadly, it does not respond to modern fire protection or to all that is happening today, mostly equipment that can be protected, can put out an open fire. Much more difficult to protect or extinguish fire caused by faulty gas or electrical installations. We also have to say the problem of funding. All units of local self-government with 5% of the original funds finance defences, fire defenses, or their voluntary most frequent fire companies. I'd like to come to this high house with an analysis of how much this measure is respected. I must again, without desire, stress, to generalise that in the continental part of Croatia, it is far more respected by my information while down where the tourism budgets and everything else are much richer, unfortunately, much less. There are fewer voluntary fire companies because when the first effect is planned, or the first activity on the fire, they should have these voluntary fire companies because, for various reasons, it means until the reporting system arrives, until the canader arrives, either this air tractor takes time. It takes time, too, for those on-call firefighters to come from one location to another on one island. And I must say, I'm also interested in prevention. Here in this law of prevention is said little or almost nothing. It seems to me that now is not the time to talk about prevention. Prevention should be spoken of at the end of the summer during those winter months when land owners and forest owners as well as Croatian forests, as well as other institutions that exist in this country, should carry out both deforestation, the construction of the average, unfortunately not enough or very little work in Croatia. I'd like to hear how much punishment has been paid for not being done. On the other hand, I also support the coming up of the issue of a building permit to exist. However, I am stressing and so far, the competent police administration in the process and the process of issuing a building permit had to give its consent to the project, in order for the project to be built in accordance with the different rules of the profession and different laws in our country and so far there has been a legal obligation. No one has told us when adopting and proposing this Act, and this would be very interesting to hear how many designers, authorised designers, because they did not make projects in accordance with the laws they define, and it seems to me that 7 or 8 different consents in the issue of a building permit must be obtained, which of the designers lost the design license because they did not do fire or any other lab or because investors did not do what was in the projects. Not a word of it, but I think it would be interesting, and I hope we get it for another law reading because it'll make it easier for us to raise our hand for this kind of law. Finally, I must say that Article 18 speaks of foreign regulations and rules to be applied in the Republic of Croatia. I reiterate my colleagues and colleagues that there are competent state institutions and bodies in Croatia that need to develop Croatian standards and standards. So let's not afford it, now we're a sovereign state, just to rewrite other people's standards. We can and I think we should initiate that it should be one of the conclusions regarding this law, that the competent institutions also create Croatian standards in certain areas of life and work because we also prove that we are a state with all our ways of life that we need to have. And finally, I have to point out that in fire protection, we can't expect only the state to do fire protection, it can do one part, but it seems to me that much more than we have to do so far, local communities. Unfortunately, there is a disproportionateness between the continent and one part of our coast for objective or subjective reasons, but the fact is that in the financing of fire and we need to take a step further, an effort more to decentralise this country, to give municipalities and cities more than that tax cake to be invested in fire. I am aware that the needs in this country are high, but we need to make priorities and I think fire protection is one of the important factors in our lives and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14440	Thank you very much. We're done arguing in 10 minutes. In the closing statement on behalf of Club Libre, a colleague of Parliament, William Herman, appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14441	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, there were more words about the need for preventive action, and here I see yesterday a very unusual way of preventative action because, as everyone knows, a strong team has appeared in Portugal, but now not only football but also the Parliament, a team composed of Seks, Glavas, Bebić, Antunovic. It's probably a preventative action because a fire that otherwise exists or is just about to be extinguished somewhere in the announcements. I don't think it's good to look for excuses when we leave our delegations in that sense that it's actually about spending taxpayers' money. And as far as I can tell, some of them are in the benches because there's no council leadership and they're almost decapitated. Here's a colleague who went under the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14442	My colleague, I beg you, the subject is quite different.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14443	All in all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14444	I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14445	But the topic is preventive action. So, therefore, this unrest suggests that there is a need to say something about the law, of course, although this was a zero point itself, and the subject itself, because it speaks something about relationships and speaks mostly about responsibilities. We welcome this Law and we think that, at least in parts, and it is because it is about changes and additions, in parts it has touched what are important problems, but we also think that it has not caught enough what should be addressed. We particularly think it's important that this matter is discussed in a number of laws as a whole, but here's a direct suggestion that this actually happens. In fact, it is also within the framework of a thematic debate. So it's also about the Law on Protection and Rescue, the Civil Protection Act, and, of course, the Fire Department Act. Having a serious and responsible relationship with these topics, and such a topic is, means indeed, to tackle problems altogether and prepare for the eve of the season rather than significantly before and then to work on this disciplined conscience indeed above what some individual interests or party interests are. I would warn that with events almost regularly from year to year in certain areas something that belongs to almost traditional fires and how much goth that meant something strange simply such a situation we have. And imagine that word, traditional fires. For example. The crow lake, e.g. Dirt butt, how almost in some legality in these areas fires occur. What's going on here about prevention, unless she's portugals doesn't have anything to do with this. Look at the fires that have occurred in some areas almost like I'm going to say again, legislability, to free some areas for building land. Let such points be ensured, let these areas really work both responsibly and preventively and another message from the Libra Club, we would like voluntary fire companies to find themselves within this topic that we propose if the whole of the debate is the point where we really need to rely on our efforts here not only to be at the level of the symbolism of non-sension to give a voluntary fire company, that every honor to these honorable and responsible people. It's to show it at the same time through responsible financial efforts. We have not seen this in this year's budget, so let us go there in the budget rebalancing despite the fact that the same environment is less than one level of local self-government, but despite this, this area is simply the work of voluntary fire companies in the best possible ways to encourage it. And it's part of the prevention. With pleasure because I've caused excitement and there will be excitement with that omen that means responsibility and not just the defence of foreign colors. Here I will finish and thank you for the possibility that Club Libre could say in 5 minutes what the entire Croatian public is talking about. Brussels on the issue of fire, protection from fire, but not in a satisfactory way about what some delegations do in the atypical representations of prevention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14446	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Ivan Drmic here.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14447	Honored vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'd like to conclude that Mr. Herman has committed an injury to the Businessman and that of Article 110 because he did not stick to the subject he reported in the cracks. And he also insulted parliamentarians. I would only give it to him for his information and for the others if he were going to go to Portugal, but at the last minute he fell off the list because only those who cheered for Croatia were going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14448	Thank you very much, dear colleague. I'm guessing you didn't need this last part. The next violation of the Rules of Procedure William Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14449	... That I was talking about the damage to actions through forms of prevention and the oan can sometimes and this layer symbolic, symbolic. However, when colleagues address each other in this way after exposure, it speaks more of them and their conscience and also of a kind of decapitation because apparently their bosses aren't here. [[speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14450	Thank you very much. Incompletely unnecessary debates. There's a colleague trying a replica I don't have right to in my line of work. You don't have the right to a replica by the Postlevnik. I'm sorry. You must study the Rules of Procedure and report for something else. The debate is closed. Just a representative of the motionary, State Secretary Ivan Buconjic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14451	Thank you very much. For the very end, I have listened carefully to discussions from all clubs and individuals, and I can say for pleasure that it seems to me that all these discussions and discussions have been precisely on one line of finding out what may be better solutions in this segment that are very important for the protection of people of material goods. It's fire protection. I must also draw attention that here was almost more time devoted to the problem of fire, than protection from fires it is understandable since firemen are in some way the ones most exposed when there is a fire. However, this fire protection law should in some ways be a prevention by prescribing a series of measures that should prevent fires from happening at all. And that is why it is the basic purpose of this law to make this prevention more efficient, and to make it easier on the other hand for people who, either physically or legally, are able to build more easily but with respect to all of the highest standards of applying fire-fighting measures. I'll tell you only one piece of information from which you will see that there was indeed a need and that it was necessary to intervene this fire-saving law, namely only the police administration of the grab is the primary last year 2757 requests for consent to projects for the issue of building permits. Of these 2757 requests, 1381 was resolved positively, meaning that the project was in line with the prescribed fire protection measures. While in 1094 almost 45% of the relationship was wronged, they were not served with the fire protection law. This is likely to occur, or not likely, but certainly because these projects, or measures, were carried out by incompetent people. This change of the law, which empowers the design of fire protection embossed engineers to ensure that this large number is reduced on one hand, will help you to make the projects more quality to the dabuca really in line with the Fire Protection Act. All this together will lead to the process of issuing building permits being accelerated. We are also confident that these sanctions that have been introduced for the first time or have been increased will certainly act preventively, in terms of responsible behaviour and natural and legal persons in carrying out a measure of protection against fire. Just for the end, since it has been quite a lot here and about fire, I will only provide you with a few data, from which it is visible that here this year is the best of luck and thank God in Croatia we have had both a lot less and a lot of fires and damage from the fire. And it would be good if such statistics but the field events continued throughout the year. Last year the total number of fires for the first five months was 5041 this year is 2259. So there's been a significant reduction in the number of fires this year. Also, the total material damage for the first five months of last year was 159 million kuna, this year 39 million kuna. So that's the data that encourages, but it's really influenced by a lot of climate opportunities and a lot of other things, but I'm saying it would be good if this trend and the real events on the ground continue in line with the development of the situation for the first five months. And I'm also going to tell you that we're aware and that we absolutely agree with those MPs who pointed out that this is an extremely complex matter and that by changing this Fire Protection Act, we're not going to make a difference. It will very soon be referred to the parliamentary procedure and the Protection and Rescue Act, which needs to be practically operationally elaborated on how to act and the State Protection and Rescue Administration. The Civil Protection Act is being prepared and there are a number of other measures in place that all together need to contribute to a better situation in this extremely important area so that both the number of fires and the damages from fires and human victims from fires are indeed a significant reduction compared to the previous year. That is why all your discussions and discussions are truly perceived as well-intentioned and as discussions that have been driven primarily by desire and interest to improve the situation in this area of fire protection and to create, above all, good conditions and assumptions for the organisation and implementation of better and more effective fire protection. For this reason, thank you all, we will take all the debates into consideration and what is justified, which is effective we will safely install in a proposal that will go into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14452	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14453	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Fire Protection Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 85, the debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Fire Protection Act is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Against? Thank you. Restraint? I find it unanimous with 117 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14454	The next item of the agenda is - Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 103 The proposal and the legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply, i.e. from 144 to 150. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on European Integration. We also have a representative of the motionor, that's Professor Dr. Velimir Bozikov, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health and Social Care. You want on behalf of the motionor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14455	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, very distinguished parliamentary representatives. We are witnessing a scientific trend in medicine that has led to the rigorous objectification of all procedures that have unnamedly led to human beings, the patient began to take too much as an object and less as an entity. The matter has become even worse when man comes down to an impoverished scientificly based scheme that would be completely devoid of spiritual, moral, or emotional implications of subjects. This led to requests to avoid such a breakdown of the patient and was imposed only on medical clinical practice that predated itself to the status of humanistic activity of a pair of excellents. However, such devastation can be avoided through the implementation of holistic approaches in medical practice, simplified by saying it should mean that a doctor in reality never treats pathology, he treats patients, treats a person, means an authentic existence that has the right to the status of the subject of all events involved in the treatment process and this will lead to the prevailing simple medical paternalism that has been characteristic in the history of medicine from the earliest of ancient times until recently. It contributes to developing one partner relationship to the doctor-patient relationship. We're not gonna tell the sick guy because the patient's taking over the word. It can be said that simply by that valuable medical paternalism in some ways it is already slow and the past becomes. This neither performs nor advocates any ideology under the medically bound quotes of the doctor in relation to the patient. On the contrary, it only draws attention to an urgent urgent need for consistent implementation of proper redemension of the doctor-patient relationship to new technological circumstances. Following the principle of respect for a patient, a special kind of human rights was formed. These are patient rights, these are the facts imposed by the need to redefine the classical relationship of a doctor - patient, today this relationship should also be based on partnership. To achieve a project that goes towards facilitating the life and work of doctors and patients for mutual and mutual benefit. Leaving traditional medical paternalism is not required to stop being a doctor now, to deny his knowledge, skills, social status, sighting, but rather to properly valorize the patient’s place and role in the entire system of health care. This is a comprehensive aid to medical practice. Of these items and, starting from the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of Biology in Medicine, this Convention on Human Rights on Biomedicine, the Additional Protocol of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine, and in the prohibition of cloning of human beings, as well as the Additional Protocol on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings with regard to the application of biology in medicine in connection with the processing of organs and tissues of human origin, the Croatian Parliament adopted at its meeting on 14 July 2003 in order to comply with the provisions of the Convention a law governing the protection and promotion of the rights of patients in the Republic of Croatia. Contracting Parties shall protect primarily the dignity and identity of all human beings and guarantee everyone without discrimination respecting their integrity and other rights and fundamental freedoms regarding the use of biology in medicine. In relation to the protection of the rights of patients, the Convention contains the following provisions: consent, protection of persons unable to consent, protection of persons with mental disorders, emergency management and the right to private life and the right to information. When making this law, the legislative proposal, are also taken into account the particulars of the Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights in Europe, it is... World Health Organizations and Amsterdam Declaration 1994. Based on the accepted declaration, nine European countries have passed laws that regulate patients' rights. No special legislation has been passed in Croatian legislation to fully regulate patients' rights issues. The adoption of a special Law on Patients' Rights was established in the national programme for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which the government adopted on 15 January 2000. It is a commitment by the Government to fully regulate the protection of the rights of patients, including the principles of the protection of the rights of patients, and to ensure that certain rights including rights so far are not laid down by the regulations in the field of health legislation, for example. on self-determination and formed consent in accordance with the Convention. According to the Health Protection Act, the right to precise health formation has been established, but all consent has not been worked out. This law therefore sets out in detail the informed consent. It is originally the right to a second expert opinion and the right to refuse to accept the notification so-called ‘the Agreement’. Right to non-information. The relevant legislation in the field of health care has been governed by the Health Protection Act "The People's Newspaper" No. 127/03, Law on Medicine "National Journal" No. 121/03, Law on dental activity of the "National Journal" No. 121/03. and sisterhood law, "The People's News" number 121. 2003, and the Law on Pharmacy "The People's Journal" also number 121, and the Health Insurance Act, number 94. 2001, 88/2002, 149/2002, 117/2003. And 30 at the 4th month. The proposed Law of Croatia would introduce the principles of promoting patient rights by applying which would improve the quality of health care and allow patients to exercise their rights more fully. The rights of patients will be promoted by the said Law are human rights and values in health care. As the right of a patient to be respected as a human being, the right to self-determination, the right to physical mental integrity and the protection of his personality and the right to respect moral, cultural and religious beliefs. This Law will allow patients to better exercise their right to information on health services, on their own health, on potential risks, on the benefits of each procedure, on alternatives to proposed procedures, diagnosis, forecasts of progress in treatment, and on the possibility of getting a second opinion. Within the right to better information, and consent is promoted to the right of the patient to refuse or interrupt medical procedures and the right to refuse scientific research. The Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights will promote the right to confidentiality and privacy of information on the patient’s medical status, prognosis, and treatment and any other information of particular nature that must remain confidential. The law provides for the establishment of a Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights in order to achieve and promote patient rights in each unit of regional self-government. That committee would act with the management body of the unit of the regional self-government responsible for health care affairs. It is proposed that the Committee has three members appointed by the Assembly of the Units of the Regional Self-Government of the Patients, NGOs and experts in the area of protection of the right of patients who would carry out their work without compensation, and the resources to cover the material costs related to the work of the Commission would be provided by a unit of regional, regional self-government. The legislative proposal sets out the work of the Commission which, among other things, has been authorised to warn, propose and make recommendations related to the field of its work, and to propose to the competent authorities of the state administration, local and regional self-government bodies, legal and physical persons to take measures to prevent harmful actions that endanger the rights and interests of patients and requests of reports on measures taken. The Commission would also have the right to access a facility in which, in accordance with the special law, healthcare activities are carried out, and the right to insight into the way patients' rights are exercised. On the examination carried out, the Commission would submit a report to the body carrying out the supervision of the work of the healthcare professionals. The Commission will be able to refer health or dental inspection to the competent authorities of the Croatian Medical and Croatian dental chambers in accordance with Article 37. The medical law, the chamber, conducts professional supervision of the doctor's work. It is also in accordance with Article 42 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The law on dental activity in the exercise of its public and powers of chambers carries out expert supervision of the work of dentists. In the event of a fundamental suspicion of committing an offence and a criminal offence, the Commission will be able to initiate criminal and criminal liability proceedings. It is possible, through the violation of these laws of established patient rights, to carry out the following criminal acts of unconscious treatment, Article 240. Penal Code, Voluntary Treatment Article 241 Penal Code, Non-Proliferation of Medical Assistance Article 243 Criminal law, as well as serious crimes against human health, Article 249. Penalty law. It is also possible to achieve the following infringements provided for in the Health Protection Act, the short of the right referred to in Article 21. The law does not provide emergency healthcare, the short of the rights set out in Article 21. Laws, non-guarantee of emergency medical assistance Article 192. Laws, infringements referred to in Article 193 If the Director does not act under the complaint of the person who has requested the protection of his rights in the light of the quality, content and type of health service, and of the measures taken, he shall not notify the applicant. Infringement of Article 195, where a company carrying out a health care activity deprives the rights referred to in Article 21. Infringement law, and Article 196. A law which will punish a private health care professional if it does not act upon the objection of a person who has requested the protection of his rights in the light of the quality, content and type of health care services and of the measures taken does not notify the applicant of the complaint. This Regulation shall enter into The laws on medical care will punish the offender, the doctor who withholds medical assistance, and the legislative proposal also introduces the obligation of the competent authorities to report within 30 days of the date of receipt of the report and, in urgent cases, without delay, to report to the Commission on the actions taken. In order to achieve social care for the protection of the rights of patients, within the framework of the rights and obligations of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister responsible for Health shall establish and appoint the Committee for the Protection and Promotion of Patients' Rights, the Ministry of Health. The Committee shall, above all, monitor the exercise of the rights of patients, discuss the reports of the Commission of units of regional, regional self-government, give opinions, recommendations and proposals to the competent authorities established in the area of part-time work of the Commission and cooperate with international and domestic bodies and organisations in the field of protection and promotion of patient rights. By passing the proposed Law, patients will be made easier to exercise their right to continued care and to treat the patient with dignity. In particular, it is pointed out that this Legislative proposal does not contain provisions relating to the transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin, as well as provisions relating to species, content, management, storage, collection and availability of medical documentation which is regulated in the introduction to the Convention, as those issues will be subject to the regulation of specific laws. The implementation of this Act will not require additional resources in the state budget, however, in the budgets of units of the regional self-government, it will be necessary to provide funding for material costs related to the work of the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights, who work in these units of the regional self-government, space, costs, administrative affairs. Administrative costs for the work of the Committee established by the health minister will only be borne by the Ministry of Health. This sure law will represent one quality... in relation to the relationship between patients and doctors and will certainly contribute to better understanding, communication and doctors and patients and to the well-being of our entire people and patients in treatment and care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14456	I thank the Secretary of State. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? Just a second. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the distinguished representative Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14457	It is incorrect that Mr. Secretary of State said that if the Commission that is to be established by this Act could initiate, or apply for the initiation of an infringement of the right of the patient established by this Act, it would only be possible if infringements were committed in the existing laws of the Health Protection Act, on medical care, on the Law on dental activity, and on the Law on Suppression as you yourself said but not if the rights of this Law were violated because, unfortunately, no criminal sanctions were provided for, so this is actually a naked inexplicable right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14458	Thank you. Here, on behalf of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, Honorable Representative Turic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14459	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, Bozikov, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 9th session of the Committee held on 25 May 2004 discussed the proposal for a bill on the protection of the right of patients submitted to the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by an act of 13 May 2004. The Committee discussed the proposal as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. At the invitation of the Committee president, representatives of the Croatian medical and dental chamber, the Croatian Chamber of Nurses and the Association for the Promotion of Patients' Rights were present. Following the introduction of a proposal for a broad debate, the need for the adoption of this law is supported as very important in a package of laws implementing in practice the reform of the health system. As Croatia has defined itself as a social health system in which the health care of citizens is primarily required to implement the state, it is mandatory to respect the principles of equality, comprehensiveness, continuity and independence. Despite certain provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Health Care, the Health Insurance Act, which is a measure of standardising the situation of patients, requires a special law to lay down the principles and procedure for promoting the rights of patients whose application will primarily improve the quality of health care in general and allow for a more complete exercise of patients' rights. The relationship between patients and doctors is based on trust, it is highlighted in the debate. And it is precisely the task of this bill to institutionally protect that trust. Without such provisions em or modern medicine in ethical legal terms. The opinion is most of the board members. For quality implementation, however, there is a need to further educate doctors and nurses to establish a quality partnership in healthcare, which is a recommendation from the Council of Europe. In addition to this law, a significant shift in the awareness of patient rights is needed and a general shift in all healthcare institutions, which will contribute to the inclusion of these ethical principles in the educational programme of doctors and nurses. In the course of the debate, a number of concrete remarks and proposals have also been made to the text of the draft law. In Article 2, the representative of the Medical Chamber proposes to make the post-priced right to quality and continuous health care dependent on the financial opportunities of society. It is pointed out that the entire text speaks of the right patients, not of the duties. Patients’ obligations should certainly also be predicted, as it is not rare for patients to consciously endanger their lives and not accept optimal treatment of the disease to cause additional health complications with severe consequences and severe and longer-term treatment. The representative of the union association is of the opinion that the name of the law is inappropriate, because the text of the law speaks almost exclusively of the rights of patients and very little about the protection of these rights. They also point out that it is difficult to expect the quality of work of the commission, since it is exclusively voluntary, so they suggest that we consider the possibility of providing funds for the work of the members of the commission. The opinion is that the legal text should be complemented by provisions on sanctions for non-compliance with the law. The representatives of the doctor’s assembly also stress the need to establish the obligation to keep the professional secret of all participants in the treatment process, not restricting that right obligation only to doctors. By virtue of the provisions of the draft law, the Commission has no right to decide on the complaint of patients and its decision to oblige the institution to comply with the provisions of the law and, in the opinion of some committee members, the possibility of exercising the prescribed rights is questionable. It is therefore proposed to give the Commission greater authority, thus ensuring that the patient is entitled to exercise his right as soon as possible. In terms of strengthening the role, the committee also proposes that individual members of the board consider the possibility of a member of the commission appointed as a patient representative being also a secretary of the commission receiving compensation for his work. The provision of Article 34 of the Law in the debate is proposed to supplement the Commission in a way that before announces its arrival in the area of health care and where it will make an insight into the way in which patients' rights are exercised. With regard to the right of patients to receive a second expert opinion, which is required to be given by a healthcare professional at the request of a patient, it is also necessary to establish the obligation to provide full additional documentation. After a broad debate, members of the Committee voted with one vote abstention, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament for adoption of the next conclusion. First, a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights in the Text is adopted as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Second, all comments, proposals and opinions expressed in the debate will be submitted to the applicant to take them into account when drawing up the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14460	Thank you. There's no one else on behalf of the board. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. After careful reading of this bill, I must first say that at the Club of the Croatian People's Party and the PGS we believe that this, that is, the law for this area of Croatia is necessary. But by the content of the first reading proposal, this proposal could only be called by the law of good intentions and nothing more. Namely, if today the citizens of Croatia were asked what are the most difficult problems in terms of the right to health care and the exercise of that right? Then I'm sure they'd put a long-term waiting problem in your spot for specialist examinations. Or for months waiting for the CT scan or the MMR. And those waits aren't two weeks, three weeks, a month, but they go more than six months. Those counties or environments that are lucky so they have a CT, maybe those deadlines are a little shorter. But when it comes to recording at the magnetic range, then we know that 90% of the patients are coming to Zagreb and we know that if we wait for the instruction that the wait will be 6 months, more or less, but that there is a possibility that somewhere in the afternoon or in the evening around 7 hours, these shootings will be done a little faster, in a different way when the manual is not needed. In second place, citizens would probably put a problem on the list of medicines and not informing patients that there are practically two drug lists in Croatia, so they are the ones that are issued on prescriptions in pharmacies, and that there are so-called medicines. a hospital list of medicines and that often occurs especially with chemotherapy that patients are fired for home treatment with continued chemotherapy with medicines they need to obtain themselves, which are on hospital drug lists. The same could be put in third place to wait a long time for certain types of operational procedures, that waiting lists are such that operations are scheduled for December of this January or March next year but that these waiting lists or waiting periods can also be shortened using other methods that are not referred to as manuals and on the burden of health insurance. Although there is a right to the Health Protection Act, the prescribed right of patients to have every diagnostic review, service, treatment or opinion within 30 days is the fact that according to current legislation, if a health institution agreed with the Croatian Health Insurance Authority within 30 days this right cannot provide the patient with that right to inform him in writing why not and when it will be done. I would still like to know how many patients or citizens of Croatia have received written notice from any healthcare institution to this day why within 30 days no examination has been carried out, surgery or any other diagnostics and when it will be and it is under the current law. And now we're discussing a new Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and allow a couple of really constructive proposals because the former State Secretary for the Previous Point said that he sees our debate as constructive. I hope this debate of mine is also accepted as constructive. Article 10 introduces the right of the patient to a second opinion but does not contain any provision to which the written request is submitted and within which period the person receiving that request must provide a second opinion. Is it the director of the facility, whether he must react within five days, in emergency immediately or 15 days. Therefore, there is no provision that would know and direct the patient to whom and within which time period that person must receive an answer, and I believe that this article should indeed be complemented by the provision that these requirements are applied to the treatment of healthcare institutions which must be provided by another opinion within five days and in urgent cases immediately. Article 20(1) states that the right of the patient to accept or reject a particular diagnostic or therapeutic procedure except in the event of an unsustainable medical intervention whose failure would endanger the life and health of the patient or cause permanent damage to his health. I think that beyond the word therapeutic procedure should be put in place and the rest of Article 20(1) should be deleted because if a patient is conscious and aware and has his right to accept or reject any therapeutic, diagnostic procedure regardless of the possible consequences. Otherwise, we can also understand that the issue of certain therapeutic procedures can be carried out by force regardless of what the patient thinks about it. Article 23 discusses the obligation to respect an earlier patient’s opinion. The provision that has been proposed by my court so far or now is not sufficiently clear, and I believe that we must extend it with the obligation of a healthcare professional to respect the patient's previously expressed desire to have a human body implanted and transplanted in order to treat it. So, both taking and transplanting works of the human body regardless of whether it's a living or dead patient. I know that someone will answer me that this area is prepared in another special law, but in this law, we determine the right of the patient and the obligation to respect the previously expressed desire for diagnostic procedures, and I believe that in this law that regulates the right of the patient, we must unequivocally establish that every healthcare professional is obliged to respect the previously expressed desire for abortion and transplantation. Why not have someone have the right to do so right now on time and earlier to say that they do not agree that any part of the human body of another person will be transplanted regardless of the cause of his death. So the previously expressed desire must be respected for such sensitive things as transplants and transplants. Furthermore, Article 29 speaks of the committee and Mr. Secretary of State at the end of his argument said that the state for the implementation of this law will have no additional costs but that the county will have additional costs and that we kindly grant the counties to set up committees to protect patients' rights and normally that they have to finance it. If we decentralisation the county's right to control this law then let's decentralize the funds that will implement this law in the regional... and to seek whether it is a thousand or ten thousand kunas, it is inadmissible that every time we make new financial commitments to the local or regional self-government, and that we simply renouncing the fact that no additional funds are provided for it, and I would also ask Mr. Secretary of State to look at the Constitution in that part which obliges the state to provide for new transfers of obligations and resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if we choose a commission already, although I'm not sure that's best because, let's say, the occupier has county offices, he would suggest that it be the job of the attorney general. Perhaps it would be better to give this part of the surveillance work to existing human rights bodies that already exist in the counties, which have been being stalked and started working rather than establishing new commissions because for every problem we create new commissions, we do not use existing commissions, bodies or institutions that we already have as if we do not trust them. But if you're staying with the commission then the solution offered is certainly not good. First of all, I only consider three members insufficient and I suggest five. Secondly, that its appointment is made through the representative body of the County Assembly, but not without provisions on who is the authorised draftor of the composition and in law, we need to make clear that the competent body of the Assembly to the candidate for that commission comes by public invitation because, with this provision, Article 29 will have the right to propose the composition of that commission. So, a public call that can be answered by all citizens and all patients and all NGOs or let in the finalisation of... possibly more proposals, the County Assembly selects three or five of the highest quality proposals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, the composition of patients to be from the ranks of patients of NGOs and experts in the field of patient rights protection would ask me to ask if there is a list of names and last name experts in the area of the protection of patients' rights in each county. What kind of college or school is it, who gives a degree or belief that someone in the field of patient rights is an expert so that they can meet the quota for one of those three to be that expert? That is why I propose that I therefore consider the possibility that the issue of supervision or the protection of the rights of patients under this law should be given to him by one of the existing regional authorities, and if not to extend the commission in a way that proposes citizens and not government associations on the basis of a public call, the representative body of the regional self-government unit. That the county is obliged to ensure conditions for work, material resources, space and equipment to be available. And I don't believe that this will be the only body of protection of citizens' rights with a saying, a legal provision that they can't receive compensation for their work. As far as I'm aware, this is the only case where the proposer prescribes that three men in the county protect the rights of 120, say, in Međimurje 118 thousand patients but that's why I can't accept compensation. And I end up, what if the doctor fails to give the assessment of the results of the diagnostic examination on... in Article 8? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What if I do not get a second opinion in Article 10? What if I am subject to clinical trials prohibited in Article 17 without my consent? What if a doctor does not respect my previously expressed wish in Article 23 or what if someone gives information about my medical condition to an unauthorized person referred to in Article 24? None of this is a violation and none of this is a criminal offense, under the existing law given to the regulation, any sanctions for non-compliance and one right under this Act cannot be exercised, because this Law has no sanctions for those who violate my rights as a patient other than general forms of non-emergency medical care, unconscious treatment, unconscious treatment and a few other small things. If we want this Act to be a function of patient protection, if we cannot or do not want to impose other sanctions, neither prisons nor fines, Mr. Secretary of State foresee at least the withdrawal of the licence for two or three months of those who violate my rights in the bill of law you have entered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14462	Thank you. It is up to the IDS Club, the distinguished representative of Dorotea Pesic. Are you two on behalf of the club or just you?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14463	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. It is good that this Law on the Protection of Patients went into regular procedure so that there is still time to fix it which is bad and in this way as it is presented to us at first sight it seems that this Law is only a formality or that it is in harmony only with European legislation. But in our opinion, one such important law cannot be the subject of debate as if it were just a harmonisation. I hope that between the two readings, the ministry will certainly respect all our remarks, and that it will also contact all those interested groups concerned and will respect their comments. For the IDS Club, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is a very important matter, perhaps one of the most important. Because the rights of patients themselves cannot be viewed separately, of course we must always look at the context of health care itself. And when we talk about health care, whether it's primary, whether it's specialist health care or hospital treatment, we're getting worse every day. Why is that? Every day we introduce restrictions to save ourselves, for example The number of beds in hospitals is reduced year by year, instead of using experiences from other countries where they have been re-orientated and instead of hospitally supplied days, they have started paying hospitals by diagnosis. And of course they have achieved savings in this way, we see in the example of Slovenia that has introduced that they have reduced lying in hospitals by 30%. Another problem, of course, is waiting too long for various reviews. As my colleague Lesar said he was waiting for some and even more than six months, I'd say. The third thing is a lack of equipment and a lack of staff working on those appliances. I can give you an example from Primo-Gorski County of mammographers where women gathered on Krk by humanitarian action to buy a mammographer and now women from Gorski Kotar are offered bus tickets to go to Krk to perform these checks. Lack of consumable material is also a very big problem without saying that in hospitals there are no sheets and pajamas. There is now a humanitarian fundraising campaign in Rijeka to buy pajamas for hospitals. And of course these funds will be paid to the state by VAT, so the state will really save that in a way that will not buy pajamas and will also collect VAT from the humanitarian action for the hospital. I think the entire concept of the Ministry of Health is how to cut costs. And on the other hand, on the back of the patients to get as much as possible to get as many patients to pay for the participation, that is as little as possible and as cheap a drug on the lists of those who don't get paid. I would say here, perhaps under quotes, that it would be good for the students of medicine to have one or two semesters of economics on their own anyway, because in their call, they would certainly be more and more concerned with red tape and economy because it is important how much it costs and how much it costs some medicine and whether to choose between two medicines, of course, the cheaper one. One of the recent cases goes so far as to prescribe medicines that have even expired. Doctors are introduced a direct financial responsibility for prescription medicines and thus are bound to be limited in their treatment of patients. There are many other examples but one that may be the most painful to me because I'm going to tell you that it's happening in my town and it reminds me of that English saying, "I'm not rich enough to buy cheap stuff," because we're saving on those things we shouldn't be saving, and eventually it's going to cost us more and we're going to pay more. It's a river cardiology that's been literally in a heart attack for 20 days, which means that the most urgent heart disease is without the possibility of coronary diagnostics. The work in the Angel Hall has been completely suspended because it is a complete shortage of consumable material. Not even intervention cardiology where narrowed blood vessels are spreading or stends are implanted, does not work either. So far, 30 patients have been subjected to such diagnostic or therapeutic procedures weekly. It is therefore amazing that one of the most successful and concocted centres of intervention cardiology in Croatia is completely discontinued. And the most important reason is, of course, money because the rationalisation measures require strict respect for quotas. He's currently on various waiting lists of about five hundred patients, so I wonder if such lists are the right patients. We are aware of the IMF's warnings that health costs must be cut because this year's drug use will require budget rebalances because of course it will be a major deficit. But so far, I've talked a little bit about treatment and treatment rights, but from the point of view when we talk about participation we also cannot agree to free only some people in Croatia. There were suggestions to be only pregnant women and children under the age of 18. We can't forget 315 thousand unemployed, the circus of a million pensioners, and by the way, surely 90% of them have small pensions and also about a million children. However, it could return to the examples of others, for example, to quote Slovenian Health Minister Dusan Keber, who spoke in Vjesnik about how they resolved participation in their society. They introduced a method 10 years ago that there were 5-75% participations but it turned out to be few who could pay for it. So additional health insurance was introduced, but premiums also proved too high for the majority of the population and have now introduced premiums for 4 paid classes. The poorest will pay four times less than the rich. It means that unlike 10 years ago, when the rich were unloaded, they would now be relieved of the poor. From everything we've talked about so far, we've talked about money, of course. And then maybe at first glance it looks like medicine is one commercial activity, but we in the IDS first think medicine is human activity, and then everything else. Therefore, restrictions should be sought in other segments of society, not saved on human health. Surely we do not want to become a sick people, and healthy people can ultimately contribute more to their society. We don't need health care on paper to have a right to something that we can't realize and consume when our health is at risk. As far as the legal text itself is concerned, we also have some objections as to the principle of accessibility and humanity in Article 5. I can return again to the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County where it is not really possible for everyone, the principle of availability is enabled because you, you know we have an island and that people on the island do not have the same health care as they do on land. This is an example of dialysis and dialysis patients who have to travel 200 kilometers daily or lose all day to go to Rijeka or elsewhere for dialysis. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The IDS proposes better to develop a system of co-decision or to simplify it and that consent can be given orally or in writing, not that a dozen forms must be signed or at least one. As far as Articles 8 and 11 are concerned, they are essentially the same. On page 14, Article 19 of access to medical documentation. We first need to determine what medical documentation is and regulate it, and then maybe pass a law on the archiving of medical records that does not exist. How long must it be kept, how must it be kept, and how must it be kept? Will it be stored in paper form, on disks or something? In Chapter 3 on page 16 when talking about commissions at local level it is well decided to appoint them the County Assembly but it is bad that they are not delivered... a candidate for the commission. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And also we at the IDS disagree that the board members work without compensation because in this way.../ Due to the power failure on tape/... the archiving of documentation, we also lack the Transplantation, Euthanasia Act, and I think that it really should be given in the parliamentary procedure by the second reading. And to finish perhaps with the Council of Europe. I can say that the Council of Europe bioethical convention complemented the conclusion a month ago and that there is no social interest that can be beyond the interests of patients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14464	I thank the esteemed representative, Dorotei Pesic, with one addition that the work of the Angel Hall in KBC Rijeka has not been completely suspended at any time. Emergency procedures are being done all this time and in fact correction of the incorrect assumption that it is not due to a lack of financial resources because KBC Rijeka gets about 3 million kuna more monthly than last year. One part of the credit, under quotes, is the disturbance of the market or the company that delivered the stands to the KBC of Rijeka. Since this is half the night we see it, here's a break by 3:00 and at 3:00 we move on and it's HSS Club Zdenko Harami's turn. We'll continue the afternoon session. It's on behalf of the club, HSS, the important representative of Zdenko Harami. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14466	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Before we start talking, I have to say yes and it's really a pleasure to speak in such a full assembly. If we go from that people's better than nothing, applying this particular bill of patients' rights could say better than no law. When the Croatian Parliament looks like this Law of Croatia will be in a small group of countries, which have a law against their legislation that protects the patient's rights by legalizing the principles contained in the Declaration on the Promotion of Patients' Rights in Europe, i.e. in the so-called The 1994 Amsterdam Declaration. Such as equality of coverage, continuity, and availability in providing health care. We at the HSS Club assess the Ode proposed The Law is a bad mix of Finland and Hungary up to review the rights of patients on the one hand and existing practices to the Republic of Croatia regarding the protection of patients on the other hand. Why do we think that? We primarily believe that in the introductory chapters of the law it should have been stated in one of the articles of the definition to know exactly who the patient is, which is a medical institution, which is medical documentation, which is a diagnosis of who is a health worker, which is a clinical study of scientific research and the like. In the head which determines patients' rights are listed the right to co-determination of notification, second expert opinion, access to medical records, acceptance or refusal of individual diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, confidentiality and privacy. For that head, we estimate it's quite correct. The fact that health care should certainly be highlighted is determined by a health service contract, by the principles of partnership, by the basis of contracts concluded by the donor and the healthcare user, i.e. Health facility and patient. We believe that the right to respect human dignity and personality, which includes the protection of physical and psychological identity, with respect for the patient's personality, intimacy and moral and religious beliefs, should certainly be assumed. It also includes the right to the highest level of relief from the patient's suffering towards the current state of medical knowledge, humanitarian palitative care, in the final stage of the disease, and to the dignity of dying and death. Furthermore, the law should include the right of applicants to maintain personal contacts, then the right to leave the health institution voluntarily, and the right to refuse health care and medical intervention. The story for itself is a head that processes patient protection. We are aware of the difficult financial situation in which the Republic of Croatia is located. As well as health care in the Republic of Croatia, however, we are tired that the legislator on patient protection could find better solutions. That is why it is not too late since it is the first reading of this Law, but we are going in turn. The draft law provides for the establishment of a Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights in the field i.e. Regional self-government, which the commission should operate on a voluntary basis, and the funding for material costs should be provided by the area i.e. Regional self-government. This commission should carry out the following tasks. Follow the application of regulations, monitor individual patient rights violations, propose taking measures to protect+it and promote patient rights. Notify without delay the Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Patients' Rights and the level of the Ministry of Health. About cases of serious patients' rights violations when the result is a threat to the life and health of patients. To submit annual reports on its work to the Assembly of the Units of the Regional Self-Government and Units of the Regional Self-Government Department of Health. Notify the public of infringements of the right of patients, and carry out other tasks laid down by the law. So a committee which, as I said should be doing volunteer work, performs a bunch of administrative tasks, conducts monitoring and reports while on the basic reason of existence, which is the protection of the patient's animetre. The representative of the commission should sit in a building where the administration of the district self-government is located, not in a health institution. So the commission would be completely alienated from patients, and it would become a purpose to itself instead of being courteous in a health institution and in the everyday availability of patients. In the event of any infringement of the right of patients to the bill, the patient should fight alone by making oral or written objections to the medical institution director or private health care professional. And only at the end of the eight days of the day of the complaint, would the patient have the right to file a complaint with the Commission. The question is who is being protected here. A health care facility, a health care professional, or a patient. A similar role is foreseen for the Committee for the Protection and Promotion of Patients' Rights, at the level of the health ministry. That's it. an exciting level. Which committee follows and discusses gives opinions, recommendations and suggestions on everything. And the internardon is working with similar bodies in the world, and it's not about basic and basic, and it's about protecting patients. We can't get rid of the feeling that it's actually about justifying the fog or the horn for the candle. There's a commission without any authority with a wide range of work, which makes you sick and you'll get right what's proposed here and that's nothing. We think all of this should have been a little different. Which would require greater resources, but would justify its purpose and would not be a lot of satisfying form. It could have been like in Finland to go with a patient who would be present in a health home, at full day's disposal to patients who would investigate patients' complaints, and referred them to what they did to protect and exercise their rights. This representative would have the right for a patient from all health care institutions to find out all the information on the course of treatment. About the patient's procedure, and his personal requests, special requests. He would also have the right to request that the health care institution give him a written statement on his request. He would have the right to even open court proceedings for damages that would have been done to a patient if the patient had authorized him to do so. The question of compensation for damages and damages, the story is to ourselves, and we think that it should also be resolved within the framework of or this law whether the law on medical care. In a way that compulsory insurance of a healthcare professional or a health care institution for damage caused to the patient during treatment is introduced. Furthermore, a proposal for establishment could be put forward with a proposal for the establishment of an agency to represent the rights of the patient, at the level of the Republic of Croatia. WITH regional departments at the level of the regional self-government which the agency would be an independent organisation, whose leader would be appointed by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It is a proposal for thinking and we are certainly thinking that it would be a far better solution than the proposed one. We finally believe that the law should include a head with criminal provisions. Because without that head, this bill remains unspeakable. Because of the inability to sanction those who do not comply with the provisions of the law. But as we said at the outset, no law is better than no law. The HSS will support the proposed law in the first reading, hoping to take into account the comments and suggestions made for the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14467	I thank the honourable representative. It's on behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed constable Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14468	Dear Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Foreign Pensions Club welcomes and supports the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and wants to believe that this is a step in the new quality of civil democracy. In the domain of human rights, not the mere harmonisation of the EU legislation. I believe that this law would better fit the name of the Law on the Rights of Consumers of Health Services, thus removing possible implications of the general threat of patients in our country, or psychologically expanding the area of rights to all health services of the cocaine user. This is the title of the law that directs our attention to emergency situations and hospital treatment. Of course, the law must contain provisions on the protection of the rights of users of health services, since the obligations and responsibilities of the insurance provider of health services are prescribed by the Health Insurance Act. In the context of the protection of the rights of users of health services, we suggest that we better and more transparently define the rights of patients and that it explicitly determines what is considered to be a violation of the right of patients in order to sanction it. We suggest that a more clear definition of the procedure and circumstances can be given to the right to a second opinion. We also suggest that article 22. The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights complies with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and the Law on Equal Communities which also constitute the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and should be respected. We propose that the Commission, at the level of the regional self-government, numbers five members, that the members of the commission receive compensation and compensation and settlement of costs, and that the administrative services of the commission are carried out by the administrative body of the unit of the regional self-government. We propose that compulsory training be prescribed for the members of the committee from a professional point of view as well as from the point of view of skills management, participation in co-decision and opinion-making. Based on my experience, I have to argue that there are very few unverified knowledge in Croatia in terms of participation in co-decision and in particular one form of teamwork. We suggest that an obligation to give an opinion, i.e. an assessment of the infringement of the right of healthcare users, be incorporated into the work of the committee as a guideline for the adoption of final courts. We propose that conditions for the work of the committee at national level be ensured in the social partnership office, therefore not with the ministry, in an independent institution that cultivates a social partnership, which builds a social partnership, in order to create conditions for impartial decision-making and the work of the commission. In the Social Partnership Office, administrative operations would be carried out to coordinate the work of the regional committees as well as the organisation of education and training activities, re-emphasising the importance of education and training for this form and building a new quality of civil democracy. It is to be honest that it is good to meet with this material in the first reading now so that this law can be fully read, because we have time, so that this law can fully comply with the announced health reform, i.e. to comply with the amendments and additions of the Health Insurance and Health Protection Act, sublaws and health standards, and therefore this House would also like to learn about certain dilemmas and phenomena in the health system. The feeling of the measure should be a characteristic of this House, and somehow it seems to me deplaced towards Croatian citizens and citizens to discuss patients' rights and to protect patients' rights with almost daily announcements in means of public communication whether they are unofficial or official or speculation about health system reform which can very clearly be interpreted as a restrictive health policy, i.e. the reduction of insurance rights to health care. Furthermore, in the context of this law, it should be said that there is a whole chapter missing which should be called the protection of healthcare users from dysfunction, inertness, non-transparency and technological subinvestment of the health system. How to protect healthcare users from waiting deadlines from three to six months for preventive checks in specialist consular health care within which the disease may progress to tragic consequences. How the Commission will be able to bring its own judgment on the violation of the right of users of health services unless we have precise health standards and a basket of health services covered by general health insurance and other insurance. The system of health care as its reforms, as well as deviation, because of the many reforms the system is deformed, should be communicated and this is most important in this story, with citizens to see what is realistically possible, with citizens with healthcare users, and this can only be achieved when all healthcare entities are aware of their importance and positions in the functioning of the system without favouring any structure compared to another. How else do we explain that we have a system where the focus of health care, so 80% of this health care should be in primary health care, i.e. that key figure, which is a family doctor, and that primary health care participates with only 5% in the total costs of healthcare as well as the administrative apparatus of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Only when we are publicly working and communicating with citizens, not bombarding them with restrictive bombs, participations and co-decision of healthcare users and the patient's rights commission will they have their own protection function, and until then they can be in their own kind of advisory educational function. So I appeal and I kind of suggest that this is a system in construction and we have to have that kind of approach. I am optimistic, and I am sure that the resources for the application of this law, but also for the challenges of developing health care, we have the construction of a system especially if we can imagine who we are and what we are, if we realize that we are only humans because the path from doctor to patient is not nearly as long as it looks. Thank you for your attention and my contribution to waiting for the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14469	Thank you. Cheerleading fever is growing. On behalf of the HSP Club, the esteemed representative of Slaven Letica. Just so there's no more patients after the game.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14470	Dear fellow Milinovic, you will not believe this law is more important than the game. This may be the most important law that this House will face and the legislators are not the law itself, aware of the precedent that brings this law into the healthcare system. It is about the interruption of a tradition that is over two thousand years old where doctors and nurses, the departments of the organization, medical and ethical systems are believed to be sufficient guarantees of morality, ethics, excellence and care for the improvement of patients. After this, this is a law that relies on the tradition of rebellion against the classical understanding of professions as those of rare professions which are practitioners, means priests, lawyers, scientists, poets, sisters, judges, etc. MPs of some universal values and are not slaves to their own passions to perform in the name of truth, health, God's transparency, etc. Such an idealistic understanding of the sisterhood and medical mission became practically worldwide until the 1960s, and then there was a criticism of professions, it was seen that lawyers were con artists, that doctors were corrupt, that we were university professors of sloths, and then our clients organized themselves and started the movement of legislative regulation of these rights, and in that sense I would like you to understand and that the promoter understood who had access to this unfortunately too superficially, plagiaristically, compiling and poorly translating originals. I'm going to show you this one card, I've done an analysis of the European tradition in the regulation of patients' rights. The countries are the red countries that have adopted the Laws on the Protection of Patients. Generally, it should be excluded from the name of the law, such as protection, prevention, prevention, etc., it should be the law on patients' rights. The countries, marked with blue, are countries that have not had enough political will or have had enough reason not to go to legal regulation, but have adopted charters. In the context of the cultural circle that belongs to Croatia, it is a circle of Central European Mediterranean countries, it might be better if we adopted or adopted a charter on patients' rights that is completely legitimate in the Euorbian tradition of regulating these rights, we are one of the few countries in southern Europe other than Greece that will have any regulation and there is a large number of countries that do not have any regulation. When it comes to the very lists of possible laws, i.e. patients' rights, I've done a comparative analysis I have a copy of, so I'll tell you. I have done an analysis of four key documents that regulate this matter one of my colleagues, Zdenko, mentioned this is the World Health Organization Declaration from Amsterdam 1994, the second is the Council of Europe Convention from... from the 97th year, which was plagiarized by the legislators of this Act by falsifying the original proposals, and the third document is the European Charter on the Rights of Patients from Rome in 2002 and the fourth red signs marked the Croatian situation. I have identified 19 potential patients' rights, the term patient has pointed out patience, and he should call himself a patient in Croatia, because our patients are patient who come from... and Bagaric, those poor people are waiting there you can beat them and all sign them... However, after this Law nothing will be the same, will come to lawyers, consumer associations etc., media, you doctors need to know the consequences of this Law, it is not a joke. I'll tell you what the rights are. The right to respect the personality and humanity, which is provided for in all documents, the right to respect cultural, religious, linguistic, moral and other values, the right to access, the right to information, the right to uninformedness, the part of people who do not want to know that they have cancer or high blood pressure and that is well regulated in the bill proposal, the right to informed consent, the right to the free choice of doctors, institutions and procedures, the right to alternative or other opinion, the right to privacy and trust, the right to respect the time of the patient, it only provides for the Roman protocol, leave the patient to wait 7, 8 hours because you do not have the patience to organise his own business to wait 5, 6 minutes or possibly one hour. Right to safety, even when I come to my students, if a member of my family comes without me, then the poor one waits for four hours, if I come, then you get scared of a student and you get him right away. The right to use innovation, the right to avoid excessive suffering and pain, the right to personalised treatment, the right to object, the right to compensation about it is somewhat speaking, the right to non-discrimination, the right to enjoy the support of family, relatives and friends, a very important right that is not provided, and the right to co-determination. I will give the legislators of the law, not to bother you, concrete remarks, and this is the last law I would personally like to teach as a university professor, in this area I will tolerate such a bad thing to be done. I don't know what I'm going to do, but I can't let the MPs insult themselves, that there are laws that contain programmed forgeries. I will tell you no diagnostic therapeutic, experimental or research procedure should be made on a modern patient, on behalf of a patient of higher interest, on behalf of the state, society and science. Therefore, in the original texts that are copied there, the compiled procedure should not be used if not used in the patient, means a specific patient, in the Croatian versions of this proposal, it is expelled, which means that it can be used in principle to any patient, and that means that man can practice an experimental 200 spines in children to make a doctoral dissertation. It must be, gentlemen, that this is about overly serious things, and it is particularly poorly solved, and this is what Mr. Haramy said about an institutional structure, which is the creation of a bureaucratic supersystem that will be dealt with by retired doctors where a very complicated situation is going to happen, and we have accepted some logic of the creation of a lawyer, so within the framework of the Ombudsman, there can be a special department for lawyers who will deal with patients' rights, this particular transfer of funding system to local self-government bodies, a hyper bureaucratic structure is created to euntually silence or die for the time being, that is, some movements of patients associated with certain diagnostic categories or some enthusiasm that threaten in this area. So I conclude, this is an unserious law, and we can no longer get such laws, they have to have authority, they have to have the name and name of the man who made it, they have to have the right references, and then we can make laws, do quality laws in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14471	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of the Flight. I don't need to be convinced that this law is more important than the results of today's game as a doctor and as a parliamentary representative, and you don't need to use this pay phone, you have the right to promote yourself, but you have no right to degrade others. And I think I share the view that this is a very important law and more important than the results of today's game I think I share the opinion of all the MPs in this House. In accordance with Article 207(2), Article 15,32 timed out for the individual hearing. The next for the word appeared on behalf of the Club LIBRE, the esteemed representative Željko Pavlic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14472	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State. The club LIBRE agrees that this is an extremely important law, unfortunately we find that he is not present now and the health minister, we think he should be present, I hope that when he adopts the final bill he will be present here and will personally stand behind this Act, thus showing that he cares about the rights of patients. The Club LIBRE welcomes the fact that the Law on the Protection of Patients has come into the Parliamentary procedure and that in this way the legislative reform of health started by the former government and the Ministry of Health is headed by, as a minister, and... a member to mention Andro Vlahusic and who has been prepared and adopted several laws. Just to remind you that the Croatian Assembly adopted a package of laws at its 17th session, including the Law on Health Care, the Law on Medicine, the Law on dental activity, etc. Then this Law, the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, was not adopted because of a lack of time. The Croatian Parliament also adopted the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of Human Beings in application of biology and medicine. The adoption of this proposed law, and the law still to be reached in parliament, including the Transplant Medicine Act and the Law on Artificial Fertility, which was also prepared by the former government, will surround health reform regarding legislation. Thus, this will introduce a number of measures that we hope will raise the quality of healthcare and improve the rights of patients and patients. Club LIBRE supports the adoption of this law, but we also warn of the fact that only its adoption cannot solve the problems that our patients and patients have daily in hospitals, from waiting lists, to health care facilities, medical errors, corruption, etc. The Club of Libre also warns of the difficult material situation in health care and the question of whether this law can live in such conditions? Health care is currently in a state of emergency for the first time in the Republic of Croatia. We didn't have this in wartime or last year during the hospital doctor's strike. The minister himself, after 5 months of taking over the ministry, notes that the health system in 2004 will produce a new 3.1 billion kuna of debt that is not in the budget. The increase in drug consumption in the first three months is 16%, with an even greater crisis in drug consumption being announced. The consumption of sanity material has increased by 13.7%. And supplemental insurance consumption has increased by as much as 97%. And hospitals have broken through over 50%, all in the first five months. According to the Deputy Prime Minister's calculation, the monthly health loss in 2004 is 250 million kuna. And in these five months, he has exceeded the total debt that he has made for the past four years. To see what the funds are, it should be said that the total, for example, total KBC Rebro construction projects amount to 550 million. Or that the debt foreseen for 2004 would be enough for half the amount needed to complete the construction of all hospitals in the Republic of Croatia over 7 years. To remind ourselves, the plan of the former ministry and government was to rebuild all acute hospitals with seven billion kunas in seven years and build new ones. ... hospital in Zagreb, KBC Rijeka, hospitals in Čakovec, Zabok, Sibenik etc. What the Ministry is offering us today. That's what we read in today's paper. We are offered the possibility of introducing specific measures to limit the various services to patients and patients. But let's go back to the law itself. The Club of Libre supports the adoption of this law in addition to these observations. The basic remark of the Club LIBRE that this law introduces a number of measures that improve the protection of the rights of patients and patients. But that it lacks both enforcement and criminal measures, i.e. that certain provisions of the law are of general nature and that there are no sanctions for breach of the provisions of this law, nor are judicial protection provided as stated in the opinion of the Committee on Legislatives. There is, therefore, a danger that this law would reduce itself to the mere listing of rights belonging to a patient or patient, and thus be classified as a group of declarative laws that are adopted never to implement things. What we would especially like to warn about, and here already mentioned, is the obligation to keep the patient's health information, the patient's condition. Unfortunately, a fresh event about the divine appearance of the kings of madness in one patient has turned into another media event, a case in which the basic right of every patient is violated, which is the right to peace and dignity at a difficult time, the right to privacy, to physical and mental integrity. Our opinion that in the final version of this law there should certainly be sanctions from such a phenomenon. Sanctions and for those who publish such news and earn money in other people's troubles, and sanctions for those who have delivered such notifications to the media. The proposed law gives the patient the right to complete notification. However, it does not speak in any way about how to keep these notifications on the relation of the doctor/patient/patient and how to punish those who abuse this confidential and sensitive information? In the opinion of the Club LIBRA, and in accordance with the Law on Gender Equality, this law should also introduce the birth sensitivity of those persons and persons to be appointed as male and female. We consider it necessary in all places, where patients, users, members, etc. are mentioned. add patients, users, members, etc. Article 19 also provides for the right to access patients or patients, complete medical documentation relating to diagnostics and treatment. However, no provision in this draft law is prescribed as medical documentation. So we consider it necessary to define the concept of medical documentation by the Patient Protection Act in order to achieve the right of patients and patients. We also suggest that, in accordance with the Law on Equal Communities, we provide for a person who lives with a patient or patient in the same sex community, and should also indicate the order of authorised persons who, instead of a sick person, could be consented. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The law prescribes the establishment of... a commission to protect the rights of patients and patients in units of local self-government. It is predicted that the Assembly of the Self-Government Unit shall appoint a three-member commission from the ranks of patients, NGOs and experts in the area of the protection of the rights of patients, patients. We welcome the involvement of civil society representatives in the work of the commission. However, we believe that there is a need to lay down clear criteria for selecting members and members of the committee to ensure their expertise and independence, as this is the only way to ensure that patients and patients' rights can be protected. Furthermore, the Commission undertakes that, in the event of a free suspicion that the infringement of the patient’s right, the patients established by this law have committed an infringement or a criminal offence without delay should be established within 30 days of the date of completion of the supervision, the fact that the measures are determined to take shall be applied for the initiation of the infringement procedure. It's an application for the initiation of a criminal proceedings. However, the law does not state in any part what these are and what infringements are the rights of patients and patients representing a violation or a criminal offence. In order for a patient or patient to exercise the protection of his or her rights and to establish the responsibility of individual bodies for the violation of those rights, it is necessary to make this law a clear provision for infringements and penalties for perpetrators. Similarly to the provisions of Chapter 3, the establishment and authority of the Commission for the Protection and Promotion of the Rights of Patients and Patients of the Ministry of Health shall be prescribed. Patients and patients' rights should be independent of all bodies of the state administration, so we suggest that a more appropriate way to exercise the rights of patients and patients through a body that would be functionally and truly independent from any influence of the executive authority. And to conclude, the Club of Libre will therefore uphold the Law on Patients' Rights in First Reading. But it expects the ministry to significantly advance it by introducing concrete measures so that everything does not remain on paper promises. And we also suggest that a broad and detailed debate be conducted between the first and second readings of this law, involving all interested entities and discussing all the relevant provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14473	Thank you. To correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative of Slaven Letica. I'm sorry, I wrote it wrong. Mr. Letica isn't in the conference room. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14474	Dear colleague, allow me to correct you in one thing. You have literally questioned our minister's interest under this law in connection with his presence or his absence. First, Minister Hebrang is now in Dublin and there doing work both for our patients and for all of us who are healthy. And secondly, here's Honorable Secretary of State Professor Bozikov and let's stop, in general now, please stop, I'd say insult the people who are present here by the absence of others. I think this is enough attention. This is the first law reading, and we're in the process. So whatever you think you need to give it to me, that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14475	Dear colleague Bagarić, the correction is an incorrect allegation. Now in the spirit of tolerance that I'm running this assembly session to correct an incorrect quote, it is. It's not. Then it is in the spirit of tolerance for this session to be led by Club HSLS Vice President Adlesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14476	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! I will really speak briefly not only because of the contribution of your need to everyone watching the game but because it seems to me that they are more important things already said. On behalf of the HSLS and DC Club, I will first and foremost welcome the government's decision and the resolution ministry to establish legislative legislation on patients' rights in one place because so far patients have been trying to inform themselves from a series of legal, sublegal acts and have further complicated their lives and have tried to find out their rights, often of course and unsuccessfully. I would also like to commend, I think that this is a good way, although different opinions could be heard here that we have received an overview of the countries of the European countries that these issues are solutions elsewhere, in countries that have been more successful than us. I think that such experiences can only help us, and so can our MPs to better prepare ourselves. So, apart from supporting the law in the first reading, I'll make a few remarks, try not to repeat myself. Of course, when it comes to such a law, we all fear that it is not just some declarative recognition in this case of general and equal right of patients to quality and continuous health care, because if such protection is not determined in addition to the term of the appropriate period, then the question is how much is the application of such a law and real. Generally known to be on search unless we pay them ourselves or go to a private person for a long time and most of the population is unable to pay them, so they wait too long, waiting a few months. For most diseases, we know that time is very important. We know that there are waiting lists open, public, secrets and others. We can talk about it here openly but we know what it means for the mental state of a person who is in suspense waiting for a specialist review or search and how much he can commit himself to any other obligation, which means if the disease is caught and how much more expensive its treatment will be if it is not timely. I would like to make some quite concrete remarks, for example, on Article 10, but it also refers to the 14th where there is a shortage, not precisely the persons to whom the observations are made, and it can also create a feeling that we are merely creating an illusion of the introduction of order unless it is concrete to whom this is concerned. I think it's particularly sensitive, and that's what's written, Article 16, paragraph 1, where it's about medical and scientific and clinical research. That's where you'd agree with your colleague's flight. In any event, any investigation shall not take place without written consent as referred to in paragraph 2. So, you need to coordinate it and not leave it open like this. In the case of a legal representative or guardian for minors who do not have a professional capacity, I hold that the possibility of a co-signator of such consent should be considered by a state body such as social care or, for example, a judge. It is a little unclear, too, about protecting patients with a severe mental disorder in Article 22 because it speaks of a person who is not conscious or a minor patient who has a severe mental disorder, so we believe that this part should either be changed or abandoned. What seems to me in this law to attract the most attention is to establish a committee to protect patients' rights and perhaps we are rightly the most sensitive to that part. We believe that it is good for such a commission to be a regional branch of the Commission for the Protection and Promotion of the Right of Patients of the Ministry of Health, therefore, because of the unique criteria on all issues, but we fear it is illusory that this job is done without compensation on a voluntary basis and have a fairly large and responsible job, even writing the material costs of the commissions has been excluded. So the question arises how much someone will want and can do without any compensation. What is certainly most dangerous, it seems to me that we have all agreed on parliamentary committees, which is the absence of criminal provisions, so the question of sanctions in the event of infringement of one patient's right and even material responsibility for the damage that has been done without which we fear this law will not be applicable. I agree with colleagues who said that between the first and second readings it is necessary to conduct a public debate, that it may include those who failed in the first reading, although the fact that certain associations or representatives of those associations or representatives were involved in the drafting of the draft law. We therefore insist on adequate penalties for offenders and agree that birth sensitivity should be introduced and appointed as male and female. I'm really surprised that in so many parliamentary terms, you still speak exclusively in the male race. We also insist that we determine what medical documentation is and that it is laid down in the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights or Patient's, and we also ask that this law be brought into line with the Law on Same-Sex Communities. Since the law here in the House has not been passed any major changes and there is no reason not to be referred to this law. What we are a bit afraid of and correcting in view of a large number of different committees, committees, coordination, and if we were to do an analysis we would not be able to find out that they are doing so much operationally, so we hold that it is necessary to install into the work of the commission and their popularisation and regular advertising, reporting on their work in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14477	I thank Vice President Adlesic. It is up to the SDP club, the respected representative Jagoda Martic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14478	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! No doubt, we all agreed, that the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights is very important because every human being is the most sensitive in health. Therefore, the public looked forward to the adoption of this Law, which is now before us. However, the proposed law will not satisfy the expectations of citizens, because unfortunately the bill does not go beyond the strict list of rights, there is no need for concreteisation, and in particular there is no explicit and clearly defined obligations of the medical service providers, and there are no sanctions in the case of infringements of the rights of patients. By reading the law, we cannot take away the impression that such a proposed law is just a front to cover up from the public's eyes at least temporarily all the discrepancies and inconsistencies and wanderings of the current government in many areas, but I will now remain only in the field of health, because ultimately this Law is part of the circle and domain of the ministry. So let's take the order in which conditions we discuss patients' rights. This is what we are discussing at a time when the Minister of Health is the entire health administration, and I am also thinking of the Ministry of Health and the HZZO hired a permanent placement of false information about the state of the health system and it is obvious that this should be served tomorrow as an alibi for non-compliance and incompetence and the Ministry and Government. Furthermore, there is clearly a high degree of ignorance and nonrecognition of real problems as well as a lack of preparedness to solve them. The waist has been completely neglected and put into a different plan. The minister thanked and fired the highest health authority in certain areas of health care, replaced them with experts, so to speak, from another league but therefore with the HDZ party card. Recognised top doctors apply to the State's Attorney's Office on the basis of paranoid suspicions, and proven corrupt and morally unacceptable people are placed in management posts in clinics and hospitals. And where are the patients in all this? After all, patients are the ultimate users for which the entire health care system exists. But they seem to be the least important in the whole story. Almost daily reductions in insurance rights are announced in order to deny everything the next day and thus create a sense of fear and uncertainty in public because citizens do not know what is waiting for them tomorrow. The waiting lists are growing, patients are being transferred from month to month due to unresolved limit problems. Almost all start reconstruction projects or building hospital facilities are either stopped or stalled, resulting in increased costs and even less money for the patient. The opening part of this bill on page 7 states: "The rights of patients who will promote the said Law are human rights and values in health care, such as the right of a patient to be respected as a human being, the right to co-determination, the right to physical and mental integrity and the protection of his personality and the right to respect moral, cultural and religious beliefs.". I don't think there's a person who would have any objection to this finding. But given everything I've said before, I can't help thinking that this claim in this case has nothing but demagogue meaning and nothing more. This claim is further discussed in Articles 4 and 5, I will not quote them now. But then the question is really right, what is with the specific rights of patients, such as the availability of health care, the timely supply of health care, and the like? I think that every single one of us knows what it looks like when someone wants to do a checkup at any hospital to wait for a particular search period of six months, and for several months, patients are forced to do that, in private institutions, we know what the physical state of citizens are today, and we know that many of them can't afford it. Well, maybe one proposal and the Ministry, it would be interesting to really take a serious and thorough approach to an analysis by hospitals and to see how much the use of the capacity of certain appliances is, it's known how many reviews can be made in one day, and to see if it's really maximum and used, or maybe these situations are deliberately created in order to somehow force patients to go to private institutions. Here, perhaps with such an analysis, help and access to the provision and protection of patients' rights. Furthermore, the Law does not clearly define all the rights of patients. The proposed text is quite unsightly and makes it difficult for patients to get along with their rights and also for healthcare providers in relation to their obligations. So a specific article should clearly specify which rights they are, and, of course, then elaborate them in detail on certain, other, other articles. Article 10 speaks of the patient having the right to a second expert opinion but it is not defined who is carrying the costs, whether it is a health insurance burden or whether the patient has to bear the costs alone. Then, the Law provides for the establishment of a Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights in the Unit of Regional Self-Government and the Ministry of Health. First of all, the patient's right body should be independent of all the authorities of the state administration and should be bodies that would be functionally and truly independent of any influence of the government. Secondly, the proposed Law stipulates that the work of members of the Committee is on a voluntary basis. It rightly raises the question of how effectively such a commission will work. There may be some will and enthusiasm at first, but in time, these initial motives will surely disappear. We all know that under the present conditions of life no serious work and work planned for a long time can be planned on a voluntary basis. So it seems to me that it's meant for the commissions to be established but also quickly and stop their activities. So, the government has shown good faith, but, well, it's not the government's fault that the commissions don't work and they don't work. However, I now think that normally Minister Hebrang likes to work on a voluntary basis because I remembered the debate when we discussed the budget, so when one remark was made on the fact that a small amount of funds has been allocated to preventative checks on women, then the minister said among other things: and as far as breast cancer is concerned, we have brought the first national programme of prevention of breast cancer where each county from decentralised means will buy a mobile mammogram and we doctors, radiologists will be able to read these mammograms voluntarily and every year will... to be covered by 500 thousand women of critical age. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So those we consider highly risky and that is included in our programme that we will publish immediately after this budget is adopted if it is adopted. The budget was passed six months ago and the promise obviously remained just a promise. So much for voluntary, voluntary work. What is the work of the Committee, and what are its powers? Words such as monitoring individual rights violations are listed, suggests taking measures, informs the Committee of the Ministry, submits a report, informs the public etc. So the Committee is authorized to warn, propose and make recommendations. However, the bill does not state in any part what these are and what infringements are the rights of patients who constitute a violation or a criminal offence? In order for a patient or patient, for the sake of the quality of time, not to use these terms, but in any case, it is mandatory to enter in the law gender sensitivity, meaning that the patient may exercise the protection of his or her rights and that the responsibility of individual persons or bodies for the application of those rights may be established, this Law requires a clear provision of infringements and penalties for the perpetrators. Without a clear definition of violations and especially sanctions for offences committed, this law is on the best track to remain only a dead letter on paper i.e. to remain only a declarative law that will be passed and that will never really be implemented and applied to life situations. Finally, this Law is too important to be prepared in a way contrary to the basic principles of transparency of the work of state bodies and not to involve the general public in its preparation. For this reason, we from the SDP Club propose and adhere to all those who have also suggested that a broad and detailed public debate be conducted between the first and second readings involving all interested entities and distinguished patients' rights professionals. I would point out that the proposal of this law has already been made only not, there was no time to be referred to the parliamentary procedure and it was done exactly in a way that top experts participated in its work and instead of the law being directed by the current government in the procedure to prepare a new law much worse and reading cannot and do not ask whether we want to really protect patients' rights or just want to declare the conditions of the European Union. This is the first reading of this Act, so the SDP Club will be abstentioned and thus give the Government the chance to right, that after a detailed discussion until the second reading, the proposed Law will be corrected because I point out once again this is a very important law for citizens, citizens are very interested in their rights as patients, and therefore, in any case, it must not be accessed superficially and lightly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14479	Thank you very much, colleague. We have corrections to incorrect allegations. The first came from a colleague named Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14480	Mrs. Advocacy listed several incorrect allegations, and I'd only list some. This Law is not a cover behind which the Government is hiding and the health minister did not provide incorrect information. However, he presented the exact state of health, unfortunately not finally. The financial situation of health care is catastrophic, and if experts from the second league come, that's offensive, so I don't think I'm going to comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14481	Thank you very much. Another correction. Dear Representative Kajo Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14482	I'm correcting an incorrect quote. I quote, the esteemed representative said that respected authority is being replaced by experts from another league. No one has been removed because of their expertise or intricacies, but because of irregularities in financial operations. If Professor Paladino was replaced with Professor Rainer who was elected president of the Croatian Academy of Medical Sciences and after 50 years the first Croatian candidate and member of the Management Board of the World Health Organization then there is really nothing to say. Who is the one who assesses who is respected authority, and who is the expert in the second league based on such flat-rate claims?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14483	Thank you very much. Another correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Jarnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14484	The MP noted in a number of incorrect allegations, but to support all of her arguments that the budget was passed six months ago. My colleagues two and a half months ago. Two and a half months ago, the budget was adopted, and until then it was the Parliament's decision on the temporary financing of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14485	Thank you very much. Another correction to an incorrect quote. Representative Maria Byte, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14486	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I am correcting the inaccuracies of colleague Martic that the ministry has replaced the largest scientists and health experts with another league to conceal its incompetence. It's an incorrect allegation so much that her colleague got confused in four years. The political shift took place after 3 January when all the administrative councils of clinics with reasons were removed at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament in the County House, Mr Goran Granic explained that they were unprofessionally replaced by experts and, among other things, was replaced by Mr. Academyman Padovan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14487	Thank you very much, colleague. We can move on with the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Stjepan Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14488	Dear Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and the HDZ Club has considered this Bill proposal and considers it a good basis for going to a second reading. The provisions of the so-called so-called Law have also been applied in the construction of the Law. The 1994 Amsterdam Declaration as well as materials prepared by the former government in 2002 in the process. The law is also in line with the conventions of the European Union. In 9 European countries, these rights have been regulated by special laws while neighbouring countries such as Slovenia, Hungary, Greece, Slovakia and Sweden have incorporated these standards into their already existing laws. This bill regulates the very sensitive relationship between patients and doctors based primarily on trust. This Law actually gives this trust a legal framework, a standard that guarantees the patient that this relationship between him and the doctor will be institutionally protected. So the law focuses primarily on legal regulation of communication, communication between patients and doctors. So whoever's doing him a favor. The law is laid down by all other standards which, which are regulated, are regulated in other laws as the Health Protection Act, the Health Insurance Act. So he deals exclusively with patients' rights and therefore does not stand in these many remarks in the debate. This Law discusses all ways of protecting the rights of patients as well as promoting these rights where the main role would be played by associations for the protection of the rights of patients who actually become the backbone of everything. The protection of patients' rights is based on the principles of humanity and availability, which means that each patient is guaranteed a general and equal right to quality and continuous health care. With respect to normal and his personal attitudes and worldly views of religious, ordinary and so on. This means that the patient is now cooperating in all matters related to his treatment, so his written consent to take part in the education or study of medicinal products is explicitly requested. So this partnership relationship is opening up, which has not been a practice so far. In particular, notification rights are regulated as well as the lack of information from treatment to recommendations on the way of life. The right of patients with mental disorders has been elaborated and protected, and in these cases the right to privacy is respected. The second part of the law speaks of methods of exercising the right i.e. on the protection and promotion of these rights and on which the Commission should be guided, so the Committee for the Protection of the Rights of Patients established at two levels, at the level of local self-government and at the level of the Ministry of Health. The composition of the commission is detailed in this law, so the commission works either at local or ministry level, volunteering, and the material costs are borne by local self-government. Patients' rights associations, as I said, are the backbone of these pneumonias, and they should actually do this educational part in their activities and also introduce the patients and the whole society to these new changes in the law. It is predicted that members of the commission do say volunteering, and there comes a dilemma whether to work voluntarily or to professionalize it anyway. The initial draft of the 2002 law envisioned it to be an agency that would work professionally, however, I think it might be too bureaucratizing the whole thing. And we kind of accepted the model of volunteering that exists in our neighbouring Austria. The commission is actually a bond between patients and competent institutions of chambers, administration, hospitals, health departments. It plays a role in helping the patient warn the competent authorities if patients' rights are violated. The commission therefore does not have the authority which is already highlighted, but I do not think it needs these powers, because these powers have the institutions to which the commission is addressed. These are chambers, that is, the Ministry of Health, that is, at the very end of the line and the court if there have been serious violations of the right of the patient, or proven acts. In some countries, there are also ombucmen functions such as one peace mediator in Finland. And he stands and the table actually in a health care facility, which may well be considered by the second reading whether such a variant can be applied to us. The commission brings a Rules of Procedure, which are confirmed by local self-government assemblies and is also highlighted in this Rules of Procedure on the importance of keeping official and professional secrets. When a patient considers that he has been injured by one of his rights, he addresses the institution in the first place where the right is violated, therefore, to the director of the institution, and if it is not satisfied, then he addresses the commission and within those eight days, the commission points its written form of violation of the right to the competent ministry or medical chamber, and normally everything has its own deadlines and the answer is expected to continue to be handled by the commission. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission mentions that commissions have the right to see into the areas where healthcare is given. That might be a little bit controversial for me, because the premises are looking at certain health inspections. And entering the premises without an announcement would not be good at all, said that after such an entrance of civilians to, say, the operating hall requires one cleaning that targets several hours. And all day long. This law also mentions the importance of education of all segments of society especially those who provide a service and also a hospitalist who will receive a health care service. Therefore, the emphasis and importance of the media in all this. That is why, in the commission's meeting at the ministry's level, it is envisaged that a member of the press should be in the commission anyway. I'd like to mention one novelty in this law that has never been common in lawmaking before. Because there was always one law and then the implementing rules were usually passed a few months later and even sometimes some did not. Here is the difference in that because it states that the Ministry of Health must first bring those implementing regulations and that month before the law comes into force and I think that's good. And it refutes all those claims that this law will be a dead letter on paper. Once again in the end, the HDZ Club believes that the promoter appreciates all the suggestions that have been made in the debate both in this House and in the committees. And that it can go as such to another reading with the hope that this Law will ultimately not bring the patient back to the position of the facility and that the hands rub the legal lobbys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14489	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We're going to an individual debate. The first one was registered for debate by MP Vesna Škunić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14490	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are talking about a proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights. I would talk about a population that is deeply concerned by this Law. I believe that all those who organize and participate in humanitarian actions to buy incubators for children who are born of low birth weight, do not know that besides these incubators, when they put the aces into service there is no 24-hour medical supervision. Which means in practice. I mean, some times it's literally about seconds to make the diate survive the consequences of this unsuspecting is the death of a newborn, or permanent celibal damage. Unfortunately, even statistics contribute to that. There are about 13,000 people living in Croatia with cerebral paralysis while in Europe, about a thousand living children are born of two children with celibral paralysis. We have that number doubled, for thousands of live births four children are born with celibal paralysis. Doctors generally say it's because of the risk of pregnancy even when it comes to normal pregnancy. But the high percentage of permanent physical but mental damage is due to an unprofessional birth. No one's ever been responsible for that, because we only have a mother's word against the word of a doctor. Noting that good prevention could reduce that number by about 40%. There are also about 120,000 people living in Croatia with mental retardation. The specificity of the mental state also requires a specific approach in the treatment of teeth. In Croatia, however, there is a dental clinic in Čakovec, which is obtained from donations specialized in dental services to persons with mental retardation who works in a way that the patient sleeps. There is also one specialized infirmary in Perkovcheva in Zagreb that provides services to all disabled people. BUT what about the rest of Croatia. There are ambulatory technical equipment, but the dental system is not sufficiently trained to provide services to people with mental retardation Being a person in a wheelchair is not easy. But being a woman in a wheelchair who needs to go to a gynecological examination is very difficult. In Croatia there is one single gynaecological table in Zagreb in Petrovo hospital adapted to women in wheelchairs. Listing all of these examples, I wonder where the rights of a disabled person are, who, unfortunately, are in the role of a patient for the most part of their life. Which is with the right to choose a rehabilitation facility. Many institutions run as rehabilitation institutions do not meet the basic accessibility conditions at all levels. I hope this isn't a co-worker's attitude towards people with disabilities. Custom toilets and so on. What happens when people with reduced mobility cannot approach their homes at all. What about the right to a rehabilitation process that can ensure an improvement of the existing situation and prevent the deterioration of the situation and the emergence of secondary difficulties. I believe that the Ministry of Health should develop a programme of systematic education on the specificities of disease and condition and training to address problems related to the work of persons with disabilities, according to national strategies and a single policy for persons with disabilities from 2003 to 2006 in cooperation with experts, persons with disabilities and associations with disabilities. The principle of equal rights or equality understands that the needs of each individual are equally important. Each individual must be given equal opportunities. The law must be in the service of each individual only then can we speak of human rights and the rights of patients. And you dear colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14491	Thank you very much, colleague. Nenad Stazic was next reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14492	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that this law is first wrongly called, it's the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, and it could by its content be called a law on the deception of patients in their rights. He's protecting some rights, and he's not really protecting anything. There are therefore no rights, special rights that would be protected, which have not been protected so far. Here, for example. Article 11. which states: During the provision of healthcare after each examination and procedure, the patient shall be entitled to inform of the success, i.e. failure and the outcome of the examination or procedure, as well as the reasons for the possible differentiation of these results from the expected. Well, they've had patients up until now, and they've consumed it regularly. So each doctor informed the patient who was going to perform the surgery, what he expected from the procedure, and after the surgery he told him if the procedure had worked, if what was expected had been obtained. Article 12 of the patient has the right to be familiar with the names and speciality of persons who directly provide him with health care. So please nicely so at the door of every doctor writes his name and name and his specialty. And now that it has to be written on the door and the patient needs to know who's treating him, it's now being passed into the law and it's being declared a great protection of patients in their rights. So what patient so far didn't know the name and name of his medicine and his specialty! But there are some pretty general provisions that are just hard to figure out what they mean. Article 4 says this is the principle of humanity and the protection of the rights of the patient, by ensuring respect for the patient as a human being. You see what the proposer remembered, that patients are human beings and that they need to be protected as human beings. It's really ingerious that we've established that patients are human beings and that we can't treat them like something that's lower than human beings. Then inaccuracy, by ensuring the right to the physical and mental integrity of the patient. Listen, if a patient comes to the hospital after a car accident and needs to amputate his leg, then we don't provide him with physical integrity. No, because we're protecting him, we're medically taking care of him. This is so, it is written from somewhere quite unskilled and quite superficially without deepening in what these words could and should mean when translated into Croatian. Then watch the protection in research, that's very convenient. Watch out for clinical trials and scientific research on the patient can be done if all of the following conditions are met and one of the conditions is, if there is no other possibility of comparable effectiveness of human research. So if research can't be done on humans by some other attempt to achieve that efficiency, then it's possible on this patient. It's a condition. Watch out, that's protection. So if we can't do one kind of experiment and then we'll do another, that's what the law says. Then watch this, when can clinical research be done again? It says when the risks to which the patient is exposed are not disproportionate to the possible benefits of research. First here is when we translate to Croatian so this is not disproportionate, these two negations I turn about into an affirmative expression so we get proportionate, right, so the risks to which the patient is exposed are proportionate to the possible benefits of research. So the risks have to be at least as good as the benefits, to be in some proportion. Well, people of God, I guess the other way around, well, I guess the benefit has to be at least the risk. I don't know where you copied this from. But if you're just so incriminating that you can't put it in one logical sentence that you'd know to mean it. Not that your risks have to be at least as much of a benefit so that you can do an examination on people. Then the research was approved by the competent authority. What competent body? Tell me which competent authority can approve of human research. What body is that? These perks, so for patients, yes, and look at Article 18 again a little bit about style. Listen to how this sounds: Studies on a patient with severe mental impairment and on a business incapacitated and minor patient can be done if all of the following conditions are met: 1. So when did you see a legal text look like this? So sentences must have a subject, a nickname and an object in the legal text. Well, this is a shame to bring something like this to the Assembly. Article 22 is now the protection of a patient who is unconscious and now needs it, he is not conscious, a doctor needs to take a procedure, he cannot sign the approval because of course he is not conscious and is now told who can do anything. A spouse of a patient, a parent, a full - age child, a full - time brother or a sister, a guardian, or legal representative of a patient, and now imagine we have an aunt who only has a niece. No more parents, no more older ladies, her parents died, no kids, never married, maybe she has nieces, but a nephew can't sign it, and now what's going to happen is that she won't be treated, because there's no one to sign it, because that's not what the lawmaker predicted. That is the same thing in article 34, which is the right appeal commission. Again, this same circle of authority, and now there's no nephew for an aunt, and if she accidentally complains or if she's not conscious, and her right is violated, no one is in her place, because it's not foreseen, she can't complain to the commission. Of course this should be brought into line with the Law on Gender Equality, so the Ministry should know what laws are passed here or at some kind of co-ordination of the Government to tell you this one from the other ministry, give it a little bit to comply with the laws that are in our area because this is such a little waste of time, you know, to send something like this to the Parliament so that this is revealed, inconsistencies of two regulations. Now Article 33, we are now coming to this famous commission. Watch what it is, commission, we will set up commissions in the county, so in regional administration there will be 21 commissions per three members, and look at what their powers will be. The Commission is empowered to warn, propose and make recommendations. It is firstly authorised to propose what to propose. What the commission proposes. It means it's only authorized to warn, suggest we don't know what to make recommendations. Well, listen, the Minister can do it. The minister is also authorised to warn and propose and make recommendations. Well, not just the minister, so any reporter can do it. So any citizen in the letters of the reader can warn, propose and make recommendations. So why do we need a three-member commission in every other county? If it does not have any authority to take action, and it does not, and not only is there not this Committee in the Ministry, it also proposes to take some general measures to build a complete system of protection. Well, it's your duty as state officials, assistant ministers, which is why you're getting paid to propose a measure of building a whole system and then send it here to the Parliament through the Ministry. So what we're going to establish for that right now is some special commission, which is what you're going to do. Therefore, here there is no in this Law there is no what should be, for example, no protection of patients from long-term waiting for medical treatment, it is the patient's problem, he comes to the hospital he ordered him for a year to come to some painting. It's a patient's problem, it's threatened his right or to come into some kind of procedure, so what's going to happen to him is he's going to die in a year and a half. It's not there, so of course it's not because if it was written it should be done, and what it says is easy to do, because it doesn't say anything, because it's not protected by anything. There's no obligation to provide a doctor with an error. Look, every doctor works for sure for the best, sure, but there's a mistake. So the doctors are in the West paying for insurance, they or their health care facility, if there's a mistake in making damages to the one who's damaged, and that's the patient, because it's his right, there's no such thing here, so there's no sanctions and there's no protection. And in this respect, the law is completely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14493	Thank you very much, fellow Stazic. The next one's registered with Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14494	Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here we are in the Croatian Parliament already discussing several draft laws and we rarely have the opportunity to see the minister. So, it's rare to show the minister in our Parliament. Yeah, it's just an apparition, because when someone rarely shows up, it's nothing more than an apparition. However, here we have heard of this observation from the HDZ Club that ministers have more important things to do and I believe it deeply, because these days they certainly have other things to do because they are taking pictures with our deficits. open roads, low construction and other high-rise construction, and surely that's justifiable reasons, so don't let Mr. Secretary of State get angry about it. But let's move on to this proposal for a bill on the protection of patients' rights. He not only has serious ambitions to solve patients' problems, but he has really one ambition to call himself even the bill. First of all, he according to his structure, his colleagues had already spoken of it, and there could not be a bill of law, let alone that in this form it should be passed in the form of law. After all, the Government here was a little honest and said in its explanation that the provisions of the declaration were taken into account, and this could be such a set of wishes or declarations. The truth goes on to say that many countries based on the Declaration on the promotion of patient rights in Europe, the World Health Organization of 94, so many countries have passed laws on the basis of this Declaration, and it is a pity that the promoter, i.e. The government didn't prescribe a bill from Finland, Norway, Lithuania, France, Denmark, Iceland, so there'd be trouble for itself that it's a declaration, which is the law for us here too to waste time on something that really isn't and can be a bill. The law or which has the ambition of that act to be called he must also have its repressive provisions, is, not necessarily in all the provisions, however, here is only talking about the rights, but you see when it comes to the protection of these rights then we are warned that the patient will be able, please, not even directly as you have it under the existing Law on Health Care, the Law on Medical Medicine, the Law on dental activity, the law on sorority law, the Law on Pharmacy and the Law on Health Insurance where certain criminal sanctions are provided and that any unsatisfactory patient can apply directly under these laws. However, now with this bill that should regulate precisely this matter how to protect and improve the patient's rights he even gets the commission here, so the Committee is simply a transporter between these endangered rights, unfulfilled rights, violated rights to possibly that Committee, and the criticism has already been enough, and I will say something later on, I can achieve some protection. The colleagues here quoted literally, and it was correct, were literally read as their own text of the draft bill on the protection of patients' rights to each representative, which was referred to by the Group for Women's Human Rights B.A.B.E. where they're just talking about this kind of problem. So, right from this normative aspect. Article 19 really deserves great attention precisely in promoting and protecting the patient’s rights because if a patient has no right and cannot obtain his documentation then it is difficult to exercise his right, hardly at all to file criminal charges and it is something that patients most, what obstructions most encounter in these experiences they experience in health institutions. Namely, this medical documentation is not given or very difficult to give. Here we also don't see protection how to achieve, the patient is right, how he can achieve that right. So we can appeal now to the director of the health institution, so no longer a political person, but a professional person, that if you have..., yesterday, or you are familiar with the proposal for a law on the transfer of power proposed by the Government, but you see where for miracles there are not exactly persons who would be replaceable in the case, or when there is a change of government, because of course it is not about political persons, but surely you have found people when you have replaced them all in order, as individuals, there are first of all because of their big and tough political activities. Because you say they're not mostly from the Ministry hearing the arguments they didn't care about the hospital, and there's not a word about patients. That they cared about patients, they didn't care about the hospital, and that's exactly what this Law is about, and what any law regarding this matter should take care of patients. Protecting a patient with severe mental impairment. It is obvious, therefore, that the Government, we have already seen what non-conference is doing and is reintroducing a major legal mess that will lead to once again legal uncertainty because there is clearly no knowledge of other laws. So the protection of patients with severe mental impairment has no idea at all the law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, which in this respect speaks quite differently. Article 22 which speaks precisely about this situation in a patient who is not conscious of severe mental disorder. So this is where the government only recognizes a mate, a parent, a full-time child. The government obviously doesn't know that it's been passed in the last session of the Law on Same-Sex Communities, but it may never have accepted it as something of its own. The government has a serious problem with gender equality, obviously. However, there is an even greater evil that is not known for one norm that has existed in our legal Croatian system since 1978, which in all rights equals an outsider, it does not exist here for you. So it's a minor problem if it's a single write-down and so on. However, it speaks of much more. About a lot bigger. It really speaks of the fact that this government does not have a simple, it did not evoke in its consciousness and subconscious exactly what the grandmothers of their group of women human rights are even looking for even something inaccessible, that there is more to talk about patients, not just patients, etc., when here they can't even perceive, or take into account the laws passed, and that the government needs to worry about how they are implemented. The commissions are a special problem. So, until now, until we had yet to have a bill on the protection of patients' rights, so far the patient could communicate directly with law enforcement bodies, repressions that could protect his right. Now, but here, a commission is being established and that commission is not at all envisaged by a transparent way of choosing, but it is a minor problem, and I don't think it's even a bad solution to find it in every single area of regional self-government, but for which it is safe, as it has already been turned to attention here, to provide the means to transfer power to local regional self-government units, as the Constitution says. However, this commission, which would be established within the ministry itself, is inadmissible. So, would that committee be controlled by who? You're on your own. Well, that's exactly what it is. It's an emergency to protect the patient's right to exist in an independent body. And otherwise, we have no luck with the committees, so, anyway, this commission has nothing to do with the ministry itself. Enough for the Ministry to already do the part that is required by law and by the Constitution. Therefore, this only deserves one previous debate, and that the previous debates were not known to the public. Because surely the public participated in this and at least had knowledge that the proposal would certainly be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14495	Thank you very much. We have one breach of the Rules of Procedure, two corrections of incorrect allegations. Maria Byte, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14496	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In its debate, the colleague injured parts of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law from Articles 144 to 150, saying of the presence of Mr Hebrang. The proposal for the Law on the Protection of Patients states that on behalf of the Croatian Government, Mr Hebrang or Mr Velimir Bozikov, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and Social Care, and within the framework of the Government, respected the part. And the colleague forgot that in the previous meeting of the parliament, a number of times we had discussed the draft laws without the presence of a representative of the Croatian government with opposition to the opposition then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14497	Thank you very much, dear colleague. We still have corrections to incorrect allegations, and then we'll hear from the secretary of state. Representative Bagaric. You can't hear it, MP Bagaric. As you wish, colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14498	So, I'm just going to do one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14499	Please, colleague, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14500	So, this law does not need any repressive measures, but the implementing measures Mr. Bacic spoke of on behalf of the Club and I said what it is, medicine is science and art, and the relationship between doctors and patients is based on trust and no repression can bring or reduce that trust. Therefore, there is also an ideological repressive sound. So don't put it into medicine yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14501	Thank you very much, dear colleague. He's still an MP, Bucan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14502	I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that this bill has the ambition to call it that. Ambition is only a characteristic that they have as a rule a human being whose unique intelligence is learning... [[speaks off, can't be heard]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14503	Thank you very much for teaching my fellow counsel. State Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14504	Well, here's the answer, in part, to Mrs. Honorable Agent Byte. But I would ask Mrs. Anticevic that these ideological premises that I really don't want to accept, which rightly, some illusions teach us some things that are not European around that way, I don't know what she wanted to say with those dots. And generally those who accuse the state of health, so here we explained that the budget was only run by him two months ago, it was temporary. And all those negativity and hardships were bohemian throughout the past term. But so much to the knowledge, and of course memory said yours in the last election. So, I'd like to make more of an expert part of each one. Not everyone's right, it's the foundation of democracy, but I'm sorry that Mrs. MP performed with this distinguished Parliament's cell phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14505	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. I think we all have a responsibility for both the pay phone and the pay phone outside. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate. Mrs. Lucia Chickesh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14506	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues. I particularly support the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, because I believe that there is a major step in our legislation as well as bringing it into line with European legislation. In this way the patient is placed at the heart of the health system and we confirm once again that we are here for the patient, not the patient for us. Health care includes a wide range of services. Health protection and its improvement, disease prevention, diagnosis of disease, treatment of the same, and then rehabilitation of the patient. And we see that the patient here is facing different roles from a completely healthy person to a sick and completely addictive person. When we're talking about patients' rights here, then we're talking about the rights of all citizens, human rights, and maybe this would be the answer to the lady if we weren't talking about criminal law, but we're talking about the rights of all citizens on human rights. Croatia has defined itself as a social health care system, which means that social rights in health care apply to the social obligation to provide adequate health care for its residents of our country. So one access to health care for all of her users. Of course, the quality of these health services as well as the scope and verse depend primarily on our economic, then social, cultural and in-house factors. This law covers individual rights in health care, protecting the dignity of a human being, protecting the body and mental integrity of a human being, protecting its privacy, moral, linguistic, cultural and religious beliefs. It is precisely the proposal for this law summarised in 40 articles that seeks to regulate these rights. This includes the right to co-determination, the right to intelligence, which includes the right to intelligence on the inclusion of research or medical training, the right to access medical documentation, the right to confidentiality of data, the right to privacy including the right to privacy in providing care, the right to another expert opinion, the right to refuse treatment. And this right should be respected because the patient has decided to follow his natural course, and it is a matter of his own moral responsibility. Now the question is how much a patient can understand their condition whether it's medicine, whether it's his state of mind, whether it's mental stability or something else. But on medical staff it is especially one with a high professional willingness to do everything in an adequate way and in an acceptable and understandable way to report and get to know the patient fully about his condition and thus inform him. We can't just talk about rights because rights include certain obligations. The patient has first and foremost an obligation to care for his health, to improve him, to participate actively in the treatment of his illness and in his rehabilitation. This patient also has a duty to the healthcare provider, according to a medical professional of any profile, I note not only the doctor but any profiles. And all healthcare providers have the right to consume their human rights. Therefore, this law could say that the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Patients is intertwined. We're happy to point out our rights and obligations aren't important, they're none of our business, they're about someone else. Ethics also inevitably enter this space, in this case medical ethics or bioethics. The medicine that wants and should be tailored to the patient’s being is aimed at serving human life and in its entirety at both physical and spiritual levels in an individual and social dimension. We can't say that today doesn't apply the principles of autonomy without the adoption of this law and the principle of partnership. And today it's based on a doctor-patient dialogue or a patient-doctor better said. It is precisely this law that includes this partnership, and in order for it to be further worked on patient information and on the bioethical education of medical staff, it is said that while others are required to perform their duties as medics, they should do so with sacrifice and love. Once again, I support this law, and I believe that until the end of its form, it will experience changes, and if every responsible doctor still works according to this law because it is bound by the Hippocratic oath dating from the 5th century BC to the Ethics Code of the Croatian Medical Assembly since 1993. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14507	Thank you very much, colleague. The next one was registered by representative Milanka Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14508	Well, first of all, I would like to say that I think it's good that this law has come into the process and that today we have opened a debate on primarily the rights of patients in Croatian health, but indeed between the two readings should carry out as wide a public debate as possible because I think this law concerns every citizen in this country and I think that we need to find a way that all citizens and as many of them as possible through associations or in any other way give their opinion to this law. I think health care in Croatia is working on two levels today. On the one hand, you have a health care that's gone very far, a health care facility where you can perform very complex procedures. So for the first time in Croatia you can transplant the liver at Mercury Clinical Hospital thanks to Dr. Martinac and his team. So you have some operations that make you no longer have to go to European countries, you can do it in Croatia. On the other hand, there is the other part of Croatian health and that is to wait for months for some tests, to wait for months for some reviews. So, wait for months and for some heavy surgery. So there are about two pictures of Croatian health care or two sides of the medal, one of which is bright and beautiful and the other one is darker and a little sadder. In fact, in Croatian health we had cases of fake doctors, we had cases of false presentation of certain doctors, some of whom were improved today, for example, rather than having been able to carry out their own unprofessional behaviour. So we had cases of doctors who were falsely representing themselves and unfortunately treated people with very severe consequences. We also had cases of doctors suspected of taking their egg cells without knowledge and embezzling them to other women also without their knowledge. We also had cases where we could read that it was a medical error where the patient died. None of us, of course, talk about the doctor doing it with intent. Of course, mistakes happen in business. However, what is a very big problem is that no one really responded to these mistakes. It's a very small number of people who have been held accountable, a little more doctors have responded to disciplinary penalties, and I think that either there are no or very few who have lost their license because of their error in their medical work. I'm afraid that until it begins to introduce a kind of doctor's responsibility to the patient, we can hardly talk about patients' rights. In this country, the only affair in which people have lost their lives because of a certain mistake and received a kind of satisfaction in monetary form because there is no satisfaction for whoever died, so for his family. The only satisfaction was actually in the Baxter case. It is therefore a foreign company operating in Western European countries, operating by a system in which when such a single error occurs, a large one is therefore financially paying for it all together with all those criminal consequences that you must bear. Therefore, only in this case did the citizens of Croatia receive their own financial compensation. Unfortunately, in all other cases, there was neither financial compensation nor there were therefore any other sanctions for the unresponsibility of the doctor. I remember, for example, one story where a pregnant woman died at birth, three children left behind, very young children. Sadly, in this whole story, the public has never received concrete information about what really happened. He talked about everything and everything, and there were stories that a lot of people had covered up and gone somewhere on their hands, so to concealing such irresponsibleness. In any case, we should have told the truth to the Croatian public, we should have gone all the way because I think that's the only way we can talk about patients' rights in this country. What is the right of a patient, for example, when it comes to maternity care, which is the right to her dignity and ultimately the question of the dignity of a new life that happens in our births when, for example, you have in Zagreb births in which a woman is born in conditions while a master carries a malter near her because he repairs a part of the hospital. I'm asking nicely to allow me to speak. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Those who have an objection would be better off listening to what's going on around us rather than having their eyes closed. So where is the dignity of women where, for example, in our birthplaces, ten or fifteen of our births come only two toilets in that prenatal part, so in the preparation of births, where the dignity of women in Croatian hospitals and the right of patients, for example, in the Split maternity center where births lie on the halls, therefore, on extra beds. Indeed, in all this I do not see that this is about protecting the rights of patients and primarily protecting them from the right to dignity at that moment. In fact, the right of patients also implies the availability of healthcare, but many of these health care facilities are inaccessible. My colleague here Vesna Škulić listened to a small number of representatives here because they obviously do not want to hear about the state of health in Croatia, especially with one population and these are persons with physical damage. What is their right of access to health care when e.g. women who are disabled, who are in a wheelchair, are unable to perform a gynaecological examination except for one single gynaecological office in the town of Zagreb, so at Peter's hospital. Not to mention some smaller environments, in some other cities where this is absolutely unreachable to one population in Croatia because we find it difficult to invest money in some additional, additionally devoid of such offices. And just one more thing, namely, we're here today on this bill discussing patients' rights, and I think it's the fundamental right of a patient in everything I've said so far and that the patient knows what rights he has in the health care system. Unfortunately, lately, citizens in the paper can one day read that some rights are abolished, the other day that it is not so. One day it says in the paper that only pregnant women and I don't know, children will have a kind of release from participation, that others will pay all of this together, so one picture is created in which it's really hard to talk about what patients are right, really the fundamental right of a patient is to know what he's entitled to in the health system, so what he can get. Therefore, I think that, primarily here in that section, it should be fair to its citizens so that they finally say what they have the right to do and what their right will be taken away from them because of what is thought in this way in the health care system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14509	I'd like to thank the Honorable Representative Opacic. You mentioned in a few sentences and doctors, so here I will look back as president of one of your findings, there are doctors who have taken egg cells without the permission of a woman, there are indications but there is no proof that such doctors exist. Anyway, if there are, it's for a conviction. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the imported representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, it's really inconclusive and incorrect and incorrect to say that we didn't listen to the respected colleague Vesna because we didn't want to hear about the state of health, then bring it into connection with disability, etc. That's not really true, we've listened to Vesna and everyone else equally or not. So it doesn't matter, it really has nothing to do with what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14511	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Babić-Petricevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14512	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary of State is talking about patients' rights in this way is below every human level, and especially when you said that saying, at least that you said supposedly, while a woman is having a baby in childbirth, a master on the side, I don't know,... Well, then you tell me what hospital it is, then you tell me when it happened, then that you know and that you, you approach this law in a human way then you wouldn't speak as partyly as you've spoken now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Do not speak when running about patients, when it comes to, please, it's not, whatever Mrs. Opacic is talking about. [[Intruder: I ask you to correct an incorrect quote.]] That happened in childbirth what happened, so can I. [[Intruder: Dear Representative Babić Petričević.]] is not true until it says its name and last name when and where it happened [[You've picked up, I beg you.]] And I'm asking her to give a little value, values in the debates of human value, not everything. [[Intruder: I ask you to correct an incorrect quote.]] And Mr. President, I have a right to speak for a minute. [[And please finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14513	I'm asking you to sit down. You're right, you're right, of course you're right.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14514	What you didn't stop her and give her a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14515	You have the right to correct an incorrect allegation, and to focus on correcting an incorrect quote and you have no right to debate. If this is about hurting the Rules of Procedure in view of this, I think I reacted in time. On behalf of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14516	Mr. Vice President, I'm asking you nicely, so here Mrs. Zdenka Babić-Petrichevic said some things, namely, I'm going to say here now, I've spoken very highly of everything. And please, Mrs. Zdenka Babic-Patricevic, it's about the hospital.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14517	Please tell me who you are, what's the article of the Rules of Procedure you're calling?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14518	Please, for which humanitarian action was funds collected for a maternity home that was to be restored and restored just because of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14519	Tell me, distinguished MP Opačić and you have now injured the Rules of Procedure and the recently respected representative Zdenka Babić-Petričević, I ask you, so I know that the distinguished representative Opačić has injured the Rules of Procedure. I interrupted her, so now you're gonna... We're done. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] There's no warning. Please, on behalf of the Proposer, State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14520	I'd just like to correct the allegations, and I know that our hospitals, our big damages, are paying our patients. And not now for the last year or two, or three, because that's exactly the case that I personally know maybe 6.7 years ago and it came later to the charge of half a million with interest and others, with the execution and rent of a patient while life is about 800 kuna. That's what it's all about. As for the bad standard indeed Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Social Care, his idea of Andrija Hebrang recently made a decision and a plan to first go to emergency measures to raise the hygiene minimum to these hospitals that are older than you really are, what you said is really ugly, a large number of people to a small hygienic node. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14521	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Bagarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14522	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really enjoyed preparing this material because it seems very important to me, but since a lot of things have been said I will make it as short as possible which makes it easier for me in a certain way, so it turns out that I have prepared it well. However, I think we should take two, three things to the cleaners here. One of them is whether we need this law or not. So, when I listened to my colleagues, so my opposition colleagues occasionally got the impression, not only do they criticise this, worse material, legally, but they actually question whether that law should be done at all. If we agree that this material should then I suggest that, of course, you all turn on the maximum and make your contribution, including the current Minister of Justice, who obviously knows how to do it. So, here, I think that would be good. Every contribution is welcome. However, the law should therefore. What do you need it for? It is because people do not carry out their duties, their duties, to the extent that they are expected to do so. The Lord has given orders long ago that people should behave, and this law should not be done when it is carried out. But just because we're not doing it then we have to introduce it, or do it. When, when we talk about this Law at the same time, I think that this occasion should also mention this one relationship between the patient and the doctor and give recognition to all those who do so without law and exercise it, they help patients to exercise their rights. Thus, this Law, therefore, guaranteed that others who do not do so would benefit our patients. So far, it's been said here that Croatia doesn't know, it doesn't allocate enough money for health care. I would say that in 1947, only 3% of the world's health, of the gross national product, has been allocated to health care, is now close to 8% in the world. Croatia stands out 9%. ALL 10 countries in the world stand out more. Therefore, Croatia is no longer able to single out and there are no complaints that it is not being singled out enough, and that it should be rationalised and managed in the best possible way. And now that we translate it, when we translate it into how much money it is, then we can only compare ourselves with two countries, and it refers to the right of patients, or to the level or quality of health care, which is our neighbors. On the one hand, Bosnia and Herzegovina, on the other. Slovenia singles out a smaller, smaller percentage of the gross national health product, but it is almost $820 per capita, while Croatia singles out large $400. And Bosnia and Herzegovina stands out 85. So more for health care, to do more and to protect more patients will have to be produced more, and the basic reason why we no longer produce is the regime in which we lived, the war we had, or aggression, and so on. So that's why we're here now. Now a little more concrete about the rights of patients and the law. I think it would be good if, in the text itself, we made a commitment to implement safe health care of high quality. This is also stated in Scottish material that regulates this matter. Then, it would be useful to identify individuals who will be directly available to patients who are at risk of rights in order to take immediate action, and also to those who give double the right. So it's not going to be a problem right now, I don't know a committee, I know that there's actually some kind of injustice being corrected right now. I'll only quote how, as this material has been solved, it's solved, for example in the United States of New York, and on one element, in one part of the text stands as a New York State hospital patient, you have clear rights and protection guaranteed by the state and federal laws and regulation. These laws and provisions help to ensure your quality and safe hospital protection to make it easier for you to understand your rights New York state department of health has made this brochure. So it wouldn't be bad with this law and make certain brochures as a product of that law that patients would get and based on it and know exactly what they have. The patient's critical moments... In hospitals are actually a reception and a discharge. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The existence of a reception and layoff plan would be very useful where hospital staff would be obliged to give instructions to patients on their illness, rights and to inform him at least 48 hours earlier and when leaving the hospital where and how to continue treatment. And also when it comes to this second opinion, then, then that second opinion would be good to link it to a health care improvement unit that will be established under the Health Care Quality Act, so that every hospital, every institution, will also have a unit to promote the quality of care where it would actually be that unit that guarantees the quality of the second opinion. Because who else would have authorized that second opinion and who would have paid for it. In the end, in my brief conclusion, I support this material. I think it's very valuable, that you should make some additions on it, and in fact I encourage you at the Ministry to do this paper, and this is a newspaper, to introduce them, not to give up because many newspapers are not welcome applauses as well as other cuts in health, we see what reactions to the cuts in the health care are painful but they are necessary. And that is why we expect to continue to support Minister Hebrang and this ministry in introducing a better change to a health system that certainly wasn't good because it wouldn't have been done, it would have been done by what seems to be, if everything had worked out. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14523	Thank you, thank you for your distinguished representative. Replica, the esteemed representative of Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14524	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, colleague Bagaric. Until the last sentence, until you said, "I support the minister," you seemed quite convincing to me. But for legal reasons, I must warn you. This is the law, but it's a disabled, disabled law. They are real, but it's called “zero du mius” naked rights. No sanctions. And there's a state behind the law. That is why the law is passed, not the “zero du mius” declaration. And one more thing. I respect the patient's and the doctor's relationship and that it's based on trust, but the law is passed when that trust is violated, it's played. This is why this is not a law, it is a “leges imperfecta”, an imperfect provision, there is no state coercion. And we can't talk about patients' rights but we can talk about good wishes. If there's still a commission to add to that there's no... Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14525	Thank you. Replica reply, distinguished representative Bagarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14526	Dear colleague Leko, I really have no intention of competing in the knowledge of rights with you, especially I think you're a lawyer, right? But I don't know, but to me personally, the issue is completely irrelevant as a doctor. Now let me tell you why... Just, well, I can be a patient. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can also be a patient. Therefore, these questions, the questions of forcing the law to be implemented, if they are not clearly clarified, then help to clarify them. However, it is also a matter of some other laws that regulate this matter, and at the same time we can, I have made the proposal. Just like my colleague Opačić was the marble in the assembly and I wasn't motivated and I don't have the experience or the will to explain what I wanted to say, but here I am now using that time. I said it would be good if we had a quality and health care unit that we don't have in hospitals right now, which we're introducing, which all the hospitals of this world have, to link this issue to this issue and then to the most possible repressive measure as you say about a doctor who doesn't respect this is that he can't be licensed because he's going to be licensed, he has to be, to collect enough points and so on, and if he doesn't implement this among other things, he can be punished in a way that he can't renew his license and that's enough. We can't get into medicine, I don't know, I don't know, now some other kind and an extra... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14527	Thank you. I thank the esteemed representative Bagaric. So now you're convinced that Mr. Leko is a lawyer and very professional. For the next one, she applied for the debate, the esteemed representative, Ruža Lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14528	Dear Vice-President, Honorable Secretary of State Professor Bozikov, I support the adoption of the Patients' Rights Act because so far there is no law in the Croatian legislation that would fully regulate patients' rights issues although many questions related to the protection of patients' rights are governed by two key laws, which are the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. In addition to these laws, there are also a number of laws and sublegal laws which directly do not apply to patients' rights but which regulate questions in the field of environmentalism, trade, industry and so on and refer to the issue of our health, and therefore to our legal position as a patient. Of particular importance are also normative acts, medical chambers as professional organisations involved in the implementation of health care. An example of the statutes or the ethical code of the medical chamber norms relations between doctors and patients, especially the duty and the right legal responsibility of doctors, may be responsible for this debate. I would also like to say that there are ethical committees in every health institution, consisting not only of health professionals but also of external associates from citizens to psychologists, priests and so on. And they're involved in protecting patients' rights. In the bill of law, guidelines were also taken, the European declaration of the rights of patients that we have also heard since 1994, which patients' rights are processed through several chapters and we see this and here here we will list a number of human rights and values in health care, information informed consent confidentiality and privacy, and him and treatment. Law-making needs to move from centralised decision-making and collective solutions towards individual. So the emphasis is on protecting an individual patient and involving a patient in various levels of the decision-making process. I think it's important that we point out that involving a patient is in the early stages of the decision-making process. The adoption of the proposed law would introduce the principles of promoting the rights of a patient whose application would improve the quality of health care, and allow one easier and more complete exercise of rights. That law9m will promote human rights and values. In health such as the right to physical and mental integrity to protect their personality rights to respect morals, cultures, religious beliefs and patient rights to respect it as a human being and so on. In particular, it would refer to Article 8 of the proposed law, which regulates the right to notification. Information on its health status on potential risks and benefits, any procedure, possible replacements for recommended procedures, its right to decide on recommended checks or procedures. During post-pupup when providing health care. It is important to say that the patient has the right to receive notice in a way that is understandable to him, given his age, education, and mental state. However, Article 9 states that the notification referred to in Article 8 of the Law, upon oral request, is required to be given to a health care professional who provides a particular form of health care. I believe that this should be a regular postupak in the course of grooming and that in fact it is mostly done in our health institutions. I consider the notification essential to one of the factors in the overall treatment as well as the results of the treatment. Despite the great recurrence of the doctor and the health care staff, I think to inform the patient that there has to be time. Because I feel the same way and it's also known that the conversation is one of the most important diagostic and therapeutic tools in medicine. It is also important that articles that speak right to the confidentiality of data relating to the state of his health, and so far in the health care law we have regulated this right but in practice this poor functionator. It really saddens me because while someone else is in treatment, it is already known what is being treated for, where the treatment stage is, and others. It's not just a medical staff mistake, but it's our general relationship to the right to confidentiality from the families of the media and others. There's also the right to privacy. When examining or treating, providing personal care, which we must respect in our daily work, which we may need to repair. The draft law provides for the establishment of a committee, on which we have on several occasions referred to the protection of the rights of the patient, in units of the regional and regional self-government, as well as in the Ministry of Health, which will certainly contribute to the knowledge of patients with rights and facilitate the exercise of these rights. But there's still one question about how much confidentiality and data will be. In the end, I would point out that the rights of patients that are here are enough and here in many discussions and that patients' rights should be distinguished from insurance rights. From health insurance, while the rights of the patient are one universal right and as such part of the general rights, our health insurance rights stem from the contractual relationship between the patient and the insurance company. And the task of the entire society is from the medical staff of the media and others to promote the patient's right to meet and bring them closer to their users and facilitate their use. The Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights will make this area fully and how consistent it is with the legal gains of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe as a doctor I support its adoption and I believe that by the second reading, the Proposer will certainly respect all useful proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14529	I thank the honourable representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative Drago Prgomett.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14530	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I could just add something that my colleague Veljic has already said and it seems to me that the debate on this law has become more debated about the rights of patients who are bound by other laws. First of all, the health care law that regulates the fundamental rights that patients have as insurance. Not really one universal human rights. And if I understand correctly, the applicant's intention in this case was to further regulate the patient's relationship with the doctor. Because it is well - known for all of us that very few situations or, fortunately, rare situations such as these are in a situation where a man is so sensitive and emotional and psychological. And the intention of this Law is first of all to ensure a good relationship of quality between a doctor and a patient. In which the patient will not be left to the doctor that he makes the decision for him. Rather than making this decision in terms of treatment as a common decision on the well-being of both doctors and patients. There is always a problem now whether it is given in a certain way, I can say it as a doctor, take away or reduce the right to say and influence the doctor in making such decisions. I can personally say from my practice, I really insist that the doctor get the information he has the right to receive. Because in a certain way, you share your responsibility with your patient for all the good but also for all the bad things that can come out of one such relationship with a doctor or if the result of the diagonal therapeutic procedure. Therefore, it is not only about the rights of the net but also about all those other segments that come out of such rights, which are above all the obligations of patients to follow the advice or instructions that take care of his health. Someone here said they didn't see the reason why this law was passed, so every patient was informed, so every patient knows who his doctor and so on. So let's be honest I can confirm it from practice, it's not always like that. Which is why sometimes you just don't feel the need to tell the patient what belongs to him, on the other hand, not having time or simply feeling that the patient doesn't have to know everything. So I'm standing outside the corner and I really support these legal provisions that regulate this patient's right indeed if anyone has the right to know everything about their health, then it's the one who's concerned. I'd just like to mention another segment here that's been talked about a little bit. And this is that this Law regulates, among other things, the right to decide in the event of patients being involved in scientific experiments. I think what's very important, it doesn't need to be ignored, it doesn't have to be forgotten that what's become real in all the serious states of the world in recent years. And based on not very good experiences that draw from totalitarian regimes where there were no examples of scientific experiments on people without their will and without their knowledge. And in the end, there is no satisfactory patient if there is no satisfactory doctor and vice versa. The patient's satisfaction will be difficult without satisfied healthcare professionals or people's terms as much as money and music. If, in this case, this other particularly interested party in the treatment process is therefore not adequately evaluated, if the conditions of working in the appropriate need of such a call are disabled, if adequate technological achievements are indeed not ensured, adequate education, so without satisfactory healthcare professionals we will find it very difficult to provide satisfactory patients and therefore very difficult to implement realistically or be satisfied with the results or intentions of the legislator. However, in any case, we are entering this law into that large group of European community countries that have such laws and which have such statutes, whose results after the adoption are very positive for patients' rights, so I believe that with some of the remarks that should surely be respected, and today they are passed, they will have this time too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14531	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Prgomett. It's time for the esteemed representative, Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14532	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Personal dignity is the indestructible property of every human being, and we are here right now talking about protecting personal dignity and protecting personal identity. The right to an expert second opinion, so-called I would like to update my second opinion immediately in this law with the rights of insight into full medical documentation. The right to inform the patient would be complemented by the obligation to keep a professional secret about the outcome of the examination or the procedure and informing the consensus or informed consent in the course of the involvement in the medical examinations are some of the most important items that should regulate this bill. But in order for this law to live in addition to certain additions and precisions that I believe the Proposer is quite willing to install, it will take a lot more. From the education of patients, the education of health care professionals, the inclusion of a wider social community to media that should carefully and patiently raise the level of health culture by informing them. For last, if it's alone, I've taken this as short as possible. I'm going to give you an example of how far we are from providing real notice today. While giving patients untrue hopes and encouragement, unreal encouragement is also accompanied by material and spiritual impoverishment of the patients themselves. While the fourth Congress of ophthalmologists of Croatia with international participation, prominent experts from Spain, Switzerland, Slovenia, Germany and Great Britain was held in Opatija on 20 to 22 May this year, an article on the work of Russian ophthalmologists in Croatian cities where they conducted consultations and reviews was published in our daily newspaper, and in the organization of a domestic company, leaving any kind of gap and envy. In consultation with the president of the Croatian ophthalmological society who has twice protested writing to the former Minister of Health, I ask you, myself and you State Secretary on the basis of which licenses and permits are carried out. And now the most important thing. The next day after the end of the same congress, an article in the daily media quoted: "The visit of the ophthalmological team of the famous Russian eye microsurgery institute organized by the Croatian company has come into great interest. Among them were many people with retinitis pigmentosis, a genetic disease of retina that is very large in our regions and treated only in Russia. After two days of reviewing and consulting for operations, a dozen people have decided." It's a finished quote. Not only is the disease chronic and incurable and with a variable clinical picture and the dynamics of the duration leading at the end of blindness, not only have no final successes of treatment been described in any scientific journal, but the cure that we are not talking about, not only that in all of Western Europe nowhere and I have never heard it in my rounds, but it is true that such patients, after a few years, are completely materially and spiritually exhausted and with a sense of deception, remain cornered and humiliated. For example, patients who I personally had met were patients who sold their own house and land when they left after such unrealistic encouragement and promises to be treated in Cuba and Russia. This is one of the real examples of failures in the system of unintelligence and unreal encouragement of patients and the beginning of the destruction of their dignity. I will therefore give my vote for the first reading, expecting you and all who will work on the final proposal of this law, that you will bear in mind this discussion and that all the shortcomings will be included in the final proposal of the law and that it will be precise so that it will serve the purpose and the exact name of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, while at the same time protecting them from unrealistic encouragement and promises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14533	Thank you. It is up to the honourable representative Mršić. He's not in the assembly. The word has the vice president of the House, Mato Arlovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14534	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I fully support the idea and need to pass a law on the protection of patients' rights, or rather, to regulate this issue and the scope of our social life properly. It is possible, as in some other countries, to consider that the resolution as an act to identify the situation and problems set out in this area and to see what measures should be taken in this area, too, to resolve this issue. It is possible, therefore, in several ways, but it is certainly not good to deal with it in this way by the content part as it is now offered. So it is possible to resolve this by law, but this law in its content form is something between declarative principles, visions that determine the need for information, etc. but it is not a problem just by taking over some declarative norms and referring norms from the resolution and acts of the Council of Europe and the European Union, but it is in fact not in line with our Constitution and that is the basic problem. In fact, the motion on the constitutional basis for the adoption of this Act correctly concludes that this is Article 58. The Constitution, and that this is Article 2(4) as a general article of the constitutional provision... has been passed legislation and that is correct. But far the most important article constitutional for this question, Article 23. The Constitution, which I shall be free to quote in paragraph 1. He says, "No one should be subjected to any form of abuse or without their consent to a medical or scientific experiment," and this is actually about protecting the rights of patients. It is the constitutional basis around which care is to be taken into account. Therefore, all these rights such as the right to information, the right to deny or accept diagnostic or therapeutic procedures, the right to co-decision, the right to notification, etc. So these are all... rights that are actually ethical rights that per se imply as a form of having a relationship between the patient and his doctor that Dr. Bagaric spoke correctly and said. They should not even be prescribed because they are now at this level, the degree of civilization's achievement in itself reasonable and acceptable. It's set up, something else needs to be prescribed, which when it's not used, which when it's denied to the patient and it's not prescribed. And that's what's wrong with the law, and we're legally required to prescribe it. What measures, or above all, a patient's right to protect that his or her rights or commission may be done on behalf of the protection of those rights of the patient in relation to the doctor to the state authorities or bodies that have public authority. Secondly, what I'd like to say is that some things are unsaid here. For example, in Article 15, when a patient is referred to as needed, in urgent cases for the initiation of therapy, it becomes a question of what is now with the consent that he or she can give on behalf of him. The treatment must begin, you can't get another representative, you don't have a legal representative, therefore, it should be prescribed by law when it is deemed to be an emergency and actually seek the possibility of justify and the necessary action of a doctor to do so. It is, of course, particularly interesting that the solution provided for in Article 18 concerning Article 16(3) and Article 18(1) of point 4 is related to the granting of consent, and in relation to cases where procedures are involved, for example, on a human genome. There is no longer such agreement, in paragraph 2 on such consents or of the patient, nor does his legal representative, and in particular becomes a particular issue already in Articles 16 and 18, in fact, a fundamental question when it comes to a legal representative, should at that time, with the agreement of the legislator, in the case of a person who cannot manage his or her procedures with limited or in whole without special capacity, whether the Committee should then have a duty, or a legal representative, with the consent to report and the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights, on that agreement which he has given. What if it's an abuse by a legal counsel? It's a felony. Just until you find out by the time you get to all of this, the patient's suffered quite badly, etc. Therefore, these issues should obviously be considered and developed and established in this segment in particular. Of course, it is particularly dangerous Article 26(2), which reminds me, that "tests that point to genetic diseases or... patients who are responsible for the disease or the detection of genetic disposition or subjection to disease can only be carried out for medical purposes or for medical research related to medical purposes and with appropriate genetic counselling". This law lays down the possibility that the contrary to the Constitution of Article 23 may be carried out without the consent of a patient or his legal representative. Here, you see it's expanding the opposite of the Constitution, to the detriment of actually a patient not to his advantage. I don't think things like that can just happen. We have another law that we will soon have on the agenda regarding the giving of human organs, where it is also predicted that in the event of death organs can be taken, although not before for life explicitly opposed giving. See, that's the question of what's with the dignity of a dead person. And there must be some consent to do it not just like that. So, again the same thing, again, the opposite of the constitution regarding dignity is being extended, and so the powers are being extended here, and these issues need to be considered very well before these issues are taken into account. It is about protecting the right to health, it is about the right to protect human dignity, I must also remind myself of it, and now it is said in article 19 that the patient has the right to his... and to request medical documentation referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. And for God's sake, he's gonna find out that he's been injured by one of his patients' rights to protect his health, his personality if he doesn't have a document, a medical report, a document. And we tell him you can get it on the condition that you pay for it. For God's sake, we've got some things wrong. Are we even making sure that this patient might be in a situation where he doesn't have the means to pay for it? In addition, the Constitution of protected values, therefore, if the Constitution of protected values is concerned, it is absolutely certain that in such a situation it should take special care. I have to point out something that really bothered me, and that's in Article 34. The first paragraph of paragraph 2 provides that the commission... a report delivered to the competent inspection. The competent inspection may then be carried out by the authorities who exercise supervision of persons to file certain proceedings, etc., and if this does not submit in accordance with Article 34(4), the appropriate proceedings shall not be initiated, and the Commission shall, in fact, determine that it is an offence or a criminal offence, then, in accordance with Article 30, it may initiate such proceedings, although it could not but must. And in addition, that inspection must also be reported by the Commission on the procedures initiated and vice versa... it should be taken into account in that part. The same is true of Article 32 concerning the right of the patient to obtain it or the patient has the right to file a complaint but a steppe, a complaint. He can first address the director of the institution whether it is private or public, etc., submit an objection, then he must wait, this must respond within 8 days, and only then if he does not respond in 8 days can the Committee initiate the procedure. And I ask you what that means in relation to the Constitution? The constitution is very clear here. He says very nicely in Article 46. Everyone has the right to send representations and complaints, to make proposals to state and other public bodies and to receive answers. So, not just this patient who's hurt, but me as a citizen. If I find out that the patient's rights to anyone have been violated, because it is a matter of health protection, which is public good, people and persons, we have the right to initiate the procedure and I do not have to wait for anything, whether I am going to launch a... commission, I can at the same time initiate a procedure to protect that patient's right and to the institution or the competent authorities and before the commission, but in the face of another state body, if this is the part and in accordance with the Constitution, these bodies are obliged to answer me. What they did, what they did, what they did. So here it's actually narrowing down again, it's being introduced... which actually makes it difficult for a patient to achieve a certain right, etc. The same thing is true, for example, when it comes to this relationship between the Committee at regional level and the Committee of the Ministry, although it is said that the Commission at regional level must also report to the Committee of the Ministry, it must report on its work, and if it is serious injuries it must report immediately to the Minister of Health. And then all of a sudden you see that this commission in Article 36. The ministry is actually about a body that communicates with the world, which collects and processes data and actually nothing is relevant to the Ministry of Labour which it covers. I'm done. ...must end, therefore, the question arises as to what she is, whether she is a... body or a ministry or that body that needs to unite the protection policy of all patients' rights in the medical procedure in the protection of therapy, or the diagnostics provided to him by the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14535	Thank you. I'm asking you to let me run the session. Next in line is Honorable Representative Mate Brletić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14536	... [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14537	I'm asking you to stand over the microphone, you can't hear.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14538	That the standard of Croatian citizens is proportionate to the European standard, that health care services are at Europe level, that we strengthen the material basis of our citizenship, that they can choose their own doctors, choose health institutions, hospitals, where they will be treated. Then this law will come to life in practice. In the Republic of Croatia, the necessity of the adoption of the Law on the Protection of Patients has been carefully considered in recent years. The Democratic Centre supports the government's insistence and resolution ministries to establish legislation on patients' rights. Because we believe that the adoption of such a law is important, not only because of the harmonisation of legislation in our country with the European Union, but also because of the protection of all citizens of potential patients in Croatia. Today, at a time when the erosion of material resources, moral resources, and moral values has led to a major crisis in our health system. Health care users, patients can't be passive. Their rights should be protected. This law will allow patients to better exercise the right to information on health services and the possibility of getting a second opinion. In order to achieve and promote patient rights in each unit of the regional self-government, we are following. It is known that in Croatia there is a so-called Regionalisation of health institutions and hospitals. Therefore, patients' opportunities to exercise their rights in certain areas outside of larger centres are as high-quality as in large centres. This raises the problem, because the commission in areas where medical care will be more modest in achieving patients' right to diagnostics and treatment that he thinks they belong to, and that there may be no less quality review, and that his diagnosis is nothing later set, but that he was in a prestigious clinical... to deal with treatment and their work, to be in a position to write countless signs to the committees that will give them such enquiries. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] We propose that the legislator regulates this type of relationship so that patients from less developed regions do not have more disciplined rights, but that they are given easier access to differential medical diagnostics and treatment. Although work on the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights should perhaps be advocated to be voluntary, expert advice and the scope of the work envisaged for the members of the Commission could soon lead to this work being longer than full-time, which may raise questions about the quality of the work of the Commission. The proposed act does not protect patients' right to maintain personal contact. During their stay at a stationed health facility, the patient should be entitled to have written and oral contact with other persons, and to receive visitors in accordance with the rules of conduct of patients in that health institution. And a patient should also have the right to prohibit a particular person or persons from visiting him. This makes it possible to protect both the institution and the patient, since it is an obligation to establish that in public places each patient can make clear instructions on the possibility of refusing to visit the patient himself, as unsolicited contact can in certain cases endanger patient health. The proposal does not define the way of the complaint or is defined as the complaint. Because the right to appeal is a fundamental human right. So it shouldn't be left out of the law itself. The Democratic Centre is of the opinion that the legal text should also be complemented by provisions on sanctions for non-compliance with the law. The patient’s and doctor’s relationship should be based on trust, and this should be the primary objective of the Law on the Protection of Patients’ Rights. Croatia has defined itself as a social health system in which the health care of citizens should be carried out primarily by the state, respecting the principles of equality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14539	Thank you. The word has the esteemed representative Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14540	I love the stopwatch. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Introduce notes. I very much respect the medical call, the doctors and the Hippocratic oath. However, I'm still afraid of the injection. And I'm a patient/medic on the patient's side. I'm on the patient's side. He's weaker in that relationship. Now something that I'm proposing thinks about this law. I'm reading, so it's not fiction. Making the proposed law will make it easier for patients to exercise their right to continued care for the dignity of treating a patient. Please. The law does not talk about easier treatment, but the law is the purpose of protecting rights. And the legislator himself says it's not the law. The promoter himself says it's not the law. The law implies power, state protection, coercion when your relationships don't apply. And that's possible, the practice shows that they don't understand, that the patient gets hurt. And if we had a list of all the rights, taxed and published in all the newspapers, yet the patient couldn't protect everyone's rights under this or by any other law. So we didn't do what we had to do. Second, telegraph. There's a discrepancy in the text itself. The same thing, same right and at the same time have a doctor and patient, excludes each other. So we have to decide, is life, human health and medical intervention a public interest or is it a private interest? What prevails? What prevails? We have discretion under this law. The doctor can say in the interest of health I'll take your medical procedure, and the patient can say I rule with me and I won't do it. It's in this law. Third, when it comes to the commission. It may make sense to set up county commissions in local self-government, but to make them very professional. Very professional. But there's no point in establishing a commission at the state level. The state has the instruments of another and doesn't need a substitution for what it has. The point of the ministry is to control the law enforcement and the law of both doctors and hospitals. The ministry can't say and transfer it to the commission. There is no law while the Constitution of Croatia is valid, which can remove it. It can only be caused by a conflict between two bodies. That's not possible. If it is added that this commission is founded by a minister, then it really doesn't make any sense. It's not independent of anyone of anything. We have an idea established by law by an independent body that regulates the sale of carrots and competition on the market and we do not have an independent body that can control whether the doctor has acted in accordance with the rules and the law, the rules of the profession and the law. So this law is really necessary because the matter that protects the patient is in a lot of areas. The truth is, we're a relatively poor country you said well but then the law is more important because it's harder to achieve at a lower level all rights. Then the law is more important. When we have $25,000 per capita, a lot of things will be handled easier, I assure you, and the power of the individual will be stronger. Is it five minutes already? Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That's why I really support law-making, but let's not be hasty, let's not pass the law for the sake of the law. Let us pass the law to finely regulate the relationship between the patient and the doctor when the fine relationship on which counterpart Bagaric spoke confidence is broken. But in the end, I don't understand the need for exclusive medical profession. So please, support the law, support the law, not the exclusiveness of the medical profession. And doctors make mistakes. I appreciate their medical call, but we're all wrong. Therefore, the state must adopt a regulation that sanctions errors and illegal treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14541	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative, Leckie. The next is the distinguished representative Ivan Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14542	Dear Mr. Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs! I would like to express my satisfaction that today we have on the agenda the adoption of a law like this that we need for a long time and that will certainly ease the problems of those who are forced to seek medical help. We all know the state of our health well, and we are aware that money and new modern technology in our hospitals are not the only problem. Patients who come to the hospital for help are often scared and insecure because of the disease itself, and when they start by medical staff, a cold and inhuman relationship increases their fear and uncertainty several times. Sometimes it happens that a man lies in a hospital for a few days, receives a certain treatment without being able to tell him himself what his disease has been diagnosed. It is not enough to tell the patient cold, short, and incomprehensible his diagnosis, so after such a conversation he knows less about his health than he knew before the conversation. This law clearly provides for how a patient should be treated, and I think it will safeguard his rights to a sufficient extent. If the law is implemented as imagined patients in hospitals will no longer be objects on the current tape, they will have to be treated as human beings with the right to information on their own health, health services, possible risks and the possibility of themselves participating in the choice of their own treatment method. It is particularly favourable that this law guarantees patients the right and possibility to think of another doctor which has not always been the case and will certainly help patients decide how to treat and will also reduce the possibility of a medical error. In a good part of health care this way has been working for a long time but it is also a large number of those health care professionals who do not want to work in this way according to this law and for them we are just passing it. I particularly welcome the establishment of committees to protect the rights of patients forming at local levels because these are precisely the guarantees that this law will apply and that it will produce all the positive effects for which we bring it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14543	I thank the esteemed representative Drmic. It is up to the honourable representative Šišljagic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14544	Dear Vice President, State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs, what remains of us is the most persistent! Well, we have been discussing this bill for a long time, in fact, which has been debated not only in recent months but also in the last few years at all levels of professional and non-governmental associations, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the Croatian Medical Association, the Union has also expressed its opinion. Therefore, within each health system it is clear that both service providers and those who use these services and that mutual relations are regulated by laws and regulations. We've heard today that actually this law doesn't say anything about sanctions, but I don't think it was the intention of this law to talk and talk about sanctions. It was intended to indicate the right of patients, to systematically state the overall rights of patients. We have sanctions in other laws, in criminal, criminal, we have numbers in the statutes and regulations of professional associations, the Croatian Medical Assembly, the Croatian Medical Chamber, the dental chamber, and if you want to before we hear the provisions of the Constitution and we are going to step forward with the Penal Code and the Penal Code. I'd just fix it and I'm using the opportunity now to say that it's not true that doctors don't respond because of mistakes. I assure you that they do quite well. My profession is such that I am very often in court as a witness or as one who took part in the treatment in order to clarify any suspicious error, so that the court can obtain judgment. And when it comes to a medical error, then I also assure you that there are quite specific legal provisions that sanction these mistakes and financial but also other ways. Therefore, I think it would be too high in this one law that had no intention, had no intention other than to give patients the right to state and deal with criminal or criminal provisions because we have them in other laws. Furthermore, I think that the bill elaborates on patients' rights to co-determination, on full information at all levels of health care and in all procedures during the diagnosis of treatment and rehabilitation, that the right to inform in the situation of involving patients in research or medical training is guaranteed with the full protection of patients over whom the research is carried out. I would refer to perhaps just one more detail, it was said here that the law or bill does not regulate what will happen to the patient if he is not conscious, if he is in a coma and needs help. And because it's regulated, of course not by this law, but it's regulated by both professional regulations and other legal acts, and I personally and my colleagues very often face this very situation and it's never been questioned whether we're going to look for a nephew, cousin, wife, etc. but the patient has been shown an emergency, and the necessary help that threatens his life or needs to prevent the patient from being disabled, do not let God die. So, neither in practice, nor in the past have the patient been in situations that because of such things, there is no one to sign anything and his life is at risk that he is really not being helped. It doesn't happen in practice. It is defined by this Act as a proposal and supervision of its implementation through the Committee for the Protection of Patients' Rights at County level, or at Ministry level. And it's about a job description and a work cycle based on charity, or volunteer work. I think that this kind of volunteer work proposal and this kind of surveillance proposal for our opportunities is quite satisfactory because we have other instruments and institutions where medical mistakes are just about to be made. Starting with inspections, the Ministry of Health, the medical chambers, and over the ultimate measure of prosecution under official duty. Finally, I would like to conclude, by respecting the suggestions made by my fellow MPs who and the suggestions that are certainly largely and good, I support such a bill as was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course by respecting all the good remarks and suggestions that we have heard today and I believe that the Government in the second reading, i.e. in the final proposal of the law, will respect all these suggestions and remarks. And that this bill represents a significant contribution to both patients' rights and to creating mutual trust in the doctor-patient relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14545	I thank the honourable representative. It's time for the Honorable Representative of the Korenika. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to debate. And as last for today, the esteemed representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14546	I must admit, Mr. President and the ladies and gentlemen, that I haven't read for a long time, not only of course some legal text, but also otherwise something that's so messed up that it doesn't somehow bring order into the matter that it wants to regulate. Many before me have said interesting things about this legislative proposal and some of them I would agree with but I would still add some specific moments to this Law. In fact, I think that one of the trends of our time in general, we all feel that these days, not just these days, but for a long time, unusually trying to get us citizens, this time as patients, to fall asleep with all possible rights. But I can't help thinking that all these rights are so abundant that they swallow and deny themselves in some way, and it seems to me that it's all actually one big thing, that they represent themselves and the biggest obstacle, not only that in their own multitude, but that even the smallest part of these rights are finally being consumed. Here it's as if the most important thing is being overshadowed and it's a responsibility that someone still has to take over to make patients well, and I think it's the right of the patient to heal or to improve his condition, the only right, fundamentally his right. So I have a feeling that this very fundamental right is somehow lost within the multitude of these rights. I'm trying to imagine the accomplishments even part of the rights that patients here are having. ... As some have already said before, they have noticed, there are provisions that directly threaten human rights on some other basis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It occurs to me about this one interesting philosophical anecdote, the oja entered the history of philosophy as the story of... Donkey. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Philosopher Buridan, from the 14th century, had some theory about freedom of human will, about freedom of human decision. So he claimed that in equal circumstances, because he has the will to remain undecided, he can't decide, he remains motionless and inactive, and then the opponents of that philosopher ironized that theory by saying, so it could happen that one donkey standing between two equally large so the shadow remains finally, starving because he couldn't decide on one of those two. Therefore, even if his food was within reach. A man could therefore have complete freedom of choice but could still remain helpless or better deprived of his rights. Patients if we move that story into this frame now, patients would in this game cat and mouse with doctors, using all their many rights probably, perhaps even die, and this is very often happening before they could decide how to deal with them in agreement with doctors. If we were consistent, so as a lawyer... with a high dose of creative little... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because this text and this kind of text is not supposed to read a bona fide, because we have no use for it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We'd find it in him... and contradiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We all have such a personal experience that each of the present could certainly also come to our hospitals, in fact, in practice already too much to ask of patients. I've had a very common impression that I'm actually asked to tell me what's wrong with me and what's to be done with me. I have a feeling that this is the consequence of this particular insistence on rights and the avoidance of responsibilities. For me, the doctor was also a doctor’s profession, and there was also a great honorary profession that could be remembered by people of little older age, enjoyed a great reputation among people, and almost mystic trust was enjoyed by doctors in humans. It is clear to me that this trust has not always been justified, it has not always been justified or beneficial to patients. However, here and today in this time of ours as if it were forgotten that the doctor-patient relationship, in fact the relationship of expert-laik in the most credential sense of the word and in this text is most often hidden behind the syntagma of the patient's high professional training. I find it easy to talk about patients' rights to be informed and consensual. Because in order for some information and consent to have any real effect, it would be necessary for patients to be at the level of medical insight into problems. I can testify because as a patient who, as I said, was almost asked to know what should be done to him now, so I tried, almost came to fate, to experience the fate of Burid's donkey, I would very much like to trade that freedom for medical paternalism as the promoter said, because I was very happy if I came across a doctor who puts his trust, knows what he's doing. I'd be happy if I could give him all the care and all the work. I know this story of mine may sound like dominant conservativeism, but it's not about that. It's just that I find that at a time where we really are and it's good that it is, I just think that we should finally find and some measure, at a time where we're talking about human rights every day that we've found ourselves in a dangerous vicinity of the state where the reproductive rights castrate their own fundamental purpose. In this case, the fundamental purpose is successful health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14547	I would like to thank the esteemed representative of Vukov. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Bagaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14548	I welcome my esteemed colleague, Vic Vukov, and there's no need for that, no need to answer me, I won't attack you at all. But I have to tell you, I have to tell you, no, but I have to tell you. You asked if it was an expert and a layman. You absolutely do, and you don't have to ask a question at all. No, no education in this world when, when he comes as a patient, and he's not a doctor in front of a doctor, he's a layman. And all the laws and everyone, just a little bit, and all the laws that were set up to, in order to sort out that relationship in a certain way are precisely because of that. But this is also more a contribution with trust and everything. So medicine is not a philosophy, and disease is a practical thing you understand. Therefore, there is no need, one, to continue the debate on the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14549	The reply to the Volkov replica, the esteemed representative of Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14550	Well, I'm afraid we either don't understand each other or we feel the same way because let me say it. Because you're starting from the assumption that the doctor really is an expert and that he knows what he's doing, and those who are this one, which is this trend about patients' rights, could only be created on the basis of doubt in that fact. It can't come about any different. He could not have been born differently but in view of it, only on the basis of the fact that practice showed that doctors were often wrong. So I'm afraid, I'm afraid the arrow of our interest is actually directed at the wrong side. We can't expect patients to know what to do. Rather, it should be insisted that the medical staff solve their problems with each other, sharpen their own criteria and impose themselves, I have no objection to him imposing himself as he once did on patients in a different conservative reverse. Now, of course, according to human rights, it would have to look different because I don't have anything against it either, and I'm mine, my text was actually pledoies for medical responsibility and for medical authority. What the promoter called former medical paternalism. I find that this paternalism is a bit of a pervasive word and that it is actually a matter of taking responsibility, so when someone takes responsibility, then it is, of course, necessary to have part of it, and that paternalism must exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14551	I thank the honourable representative. On behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Bozikov, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14552	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, we are at the end of the debate. On behalf of the Proposer of the Law on the Protection of the Right of Patients, and I would like to point out, once again, that modern medicine is with all its technicalistic and powerful development, but also with parallel and development of civil society to change the relations of paternalism as it once was, i.e. In the '60s, last century. What's the big deal? It is important that we have taken over all modern declarations from the United Nations, the declaration of the rights of patients, declarations and laws of good clinical practice, what has a modern world, but not at all reducing the importance of our both humanistic and medical and social medical thoughts and practices of the Croatian people where this has indeed been more developed in many segments than in today's Europe. The first social medicine was practically strong in these areas by Professor Andrija Printar and today you have his strong school, and he was also the founder of school, founder and first president at the time of the World Health Organization. However, the world is changing, and certain things must be changed. Our people truly respect doctors and indeed doctors, but they are not doctors without sin or medical staff. It's wrong. So who doesn't sin for God's sake? We're all wrong. The law exists. The laws are, the laws are set. Doctors also comply with their medical laws, laws according to medical, according to the medical chamber, both dental and dental. It's all regulated in law. And indeed, the promoter did not come from that point of view because it was really not our goal, nor was it the goal of these other European laws if we compare ourselves with others and it was regulated in positive laws to criminal law, and on this side, and therefore there have been various misunderstandings. Furthermore, this, as far as the commission is concerned, our position is different attitudes, but the commission can be a commission, it can be of this number of members, as many, the composition of the commission we have proposed. We think it's optimal, that there's no big red tape. Some have suggested, some people, some people have agencies to protect the rights of patients. We have decided in this way of commission and indeed decentralised at the level of each county and commission to be in it persons on a volunteer basis, the administration of those who truly have love for this job. I think they'll do it best. As far as punishing it I have already said and the purpose of the law is actually to strengthen the role of the patient, to know all his rights, that he is not, that he is, that he is a partner with doctors, health care staff, that he is informed of everything. It's clear, so every citizen if, if someone on the road is threatened and doesn't breathe that he has to approach, he can't ask. There were such questions, to absurdity. We can't simulate everything that much, but the patient has to be notified. Today we are increasingly educated as well as patients, and even if they are not educated, we need to talk to health care professionals and patients who are not trained enough to explain to them what will be done to the patient and we always need to warn him about the possible and bad consequences. And that co-determining him, that's where the patient will decide I'll do it or I won't. He's right. No one's going to force him. These things were not regulated in the law, it is indeed necessary now and that we are all informed. Besides, there's been a lot of controversy about experiments, experiments, there's no such thing. This is an excellent law, good clinical practice that also has Croatian legislation. It's also a modern world. Nothing can be given, no new medicine is given to the patient as long as it is not voluntary, unless the patient has been informed of all possible consequences. He also signes the doctor who gave him, together they sign one document so that it's all regulated by law. I think this law will have a really good jump in passing, from our patients. Also to patients, so you might as well tell the user health services. And that will certainly contribute to strengthening the rights of the patient and the quality of health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14553	I thank the Secretary of State. Here's what we've exhausted the agenda for today. I've got a few notices. Tomorrow we expect a visit from Alfred Mossi, president of Albania, who will address parliamentary deputies here at 9.30 p.m. So I'm asking you to take your seats in the assembly shortly before half past ten. DRugo, since for the 7th, 8th and 9th agenda, we do not have the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate on these agenda points that I do not now list them, will not have tomorrow. Tomorrow begins with the 10th item of the agenda of the Social Pension Bill, the proposer of the club representative of the SDP. First reading, Bill No. 66. And the third let the cheerleading of Assembly MPs in front of small screens help the firemen in a positive score tonight.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-06-17-0.u14554	Proposal for a law on the protection of patients' rights, first reading, P.Z. No. 103. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A proposal for a bill on the protection of patients' rights is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that, with 86 votes for and 21 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
