ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16671	When the debate on state service and civil servants starts, it always takes place within one general negative opinion of Croatian citizens about the state service because citizens are never fully satisfied with the services provided by the social service. And they expect it to be better, more efficient, and more efficient. I must stand up in defense of the state service against such a general attitude. I claim that the Croatian state administration is neither better nor worse than the state administrations in the surrounding countries. I think the current situation is the result of both a tradition and an inert that has been discussed in this matter. However, our state administration has played a major role in building the state so far, in creating its institutions in solving the consequences of the war, and in some segments it has proved more effective than many of the countries we compare ourselves with. Recently, we had an example of reading a statement by one of the investors who said that the work of the Croatian state administration was done faster in raising one factory than it would have done in its country in Germany. But it doesn't mean we have to deal with a situation like this. The Croatian state administration has a great task of preparing the Croatian state, adapting it to European standards, in all segments. It must also adapt itself to the highest tenants of the European Union. Because this is the goal we seek to ultimately get an effective service state administration. but also a state administration that will spend less per cent on the country's gross social product. However, before the end of the state administration reform, we are proposing to amend the existing law on civil servants and tenants, to ensure that several targets await the government and the state administration at these times that are coming. The first thing we want to do with this Law is to facilitate the admission to the state service in a way that has slowed down several legal barbers who have been taking the procedure into the state service. so that we abolish the current standard requiring the consent of the Ministry of Finance to confirm with secured funds for the employment of new employees, as well as the obligation of the authorities of the auctioned administration to the central authority of the state administration responsible for the state pair itself, so now it's the central state administration office. He's looking for information on the people who are being placed at his disposal. The head of the body is a responsible person and in no case can he call a tender and ask for the filling of jobs unless the funds are provided for these jobs. And he doesn't need to be forced to ask for confirmation from the finance ministry. In order to speed up the process itself, we propose to shorten the time to appeal to candidates who are not banned from the state service, from 15 to 8 days. With this Act we want to stimulate young people to school, so we foresee the possibility that someone with high school equipment or with higher school equipment with work in the bodies of the state authorities will end up in a higher degree of school preparation, that they do not have to cross the training course, that they do not need to be in a position to seek work in the body they work in through the competition. Already, when a person graduates from a higher school than he has, rather than requiring a job where he works, he will be able to be assigned to the school’s schoolwork for which it has been accomplished. We also predict the possibility that trainees of young people who have started their work career in the body of state authorities after the end of practice and, of course, if their work and training are positively assessed can be allocated to job vacancies in the bodies in which they have performed training practices. Very often in these parts of the state, there is a need for short-term extraordinary jobs, so far we have been very difficult to deal with because filling the workplace required systematicisation and even for jobs that occasionally or temporarily appeared we want to give more freedom to the leaders of the body in this regard so that, if jobs appear, anyone will last a short time, which is not a permanent character, we allow to hire a civil servant for a certain period of time. So when the job is completed, or when the decision to apply to the state service of the nar code is fixed, when that deadline expires to stop the state service of the so-received civil servant. We are on the labour market and we have a negative selection of personnel, among other things, because conditions for higher office places are heavy and much harder than those in the economy, than they are in the banking sector, but they can even say in courts. Because so far, we have the right to have someone elected as a counselor when he is 5 years old in the profession, and for a senior advisor only after 10 years of working in the profession. And in order for someone to become chief, he must have conditions as a senior advisor, so no one can become chief unless he has 10 years of employment in the profession and when we see people finish colleges at 22, 23. So 33, 34 years ago, he can't make it to lower executive posts. Which is not good because we think there are people who, even with less years of internships, have shown in their work the ability to take over these lower management posts. And we suggest that this law reduce the terms of counselling, from 5 to 3 years, and for senior advisors from 10 to 5 years. And we believe that this is how we are going to attract young people or younger people to the public service. We'll make it more attractive. I'm also saying this in the context of a closed collective contract that the government concluded last week for civil servants' unions. This also partially improved the material rights of civil servants and the introduction of a reward for loyalty to the state and state service. But starting from the fact that the state, that a huge number of Croatian civil servants are doing their job with honor and responsibility, we cannot close our eyes to the negative phenomena that are happening. In the civil service, people who are not there are found, who have not properly understood their role and their duties, and therefore we want to identify these people, we want irregularities, people who do irregularities to get a name and name, and that through the existing mechanisms of official courts, such people are punished and distanced from the state service to punish the perpetrators, but also by stronger work of official courts led them to general prevention and set an example for others that illegal and reckless work does not remain unmarked but would also encourage people to stick to the law and to serve citizens because their purpose is to be among other things and to serve citizens. For this reason, we are proposing to nominate this law concerning proceedings before a court of law, as it often happens that the accused civil servant manipulates the process, does not come to debates, affects witnesses so that neither the witnesses come and the official court is in a situation where his cases become obsolete. We would like to speed up this process in a way that, in the process of serious violation of official duty, the written statements of the witness may be used as evidence if, of course, the Board of Judges does not need to be heard again. If one day a witness statement she may be evidence in the process. We propose to provide for the possibility of the main debate being held without the presence of the officer against whom the proceedings are being conducted if he is properly called and if he has exposed his defence. We want to avoid what I've already said, that by not coming to an official court, cases are brought to antiquity. We also suggest the possibility to hold a debate without the accused, or the officer against whom the case is being conducted, if he has been called three times in a row, but has not responded independently to whether or not he has exposed his defence. Clearly, the official court will take into account the importance of the acts committed and the importance of defence, but we want this law to prevent the abuse of procedural rights in order to lead to limitations and we want to punish individuals by cleaning up the state service from those who do not belong there. We have in the law a number of nomotechnical and professional changes resulting from the application of the law for this longer period of years which have emerged in practice, given that they are of little importance would not particularly highlight them. We want to give up this law a thorough discussion so we sent it in two readings and all the remarks and suggestions we hear we will consider carefully and until the second reading of the law is made manifest to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16672	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? The chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, the respected representative Drazen Bosnjakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16673	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System held at the 16th session held on 6 July discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on civil servants and tenants. In the debate, the Committee supported the solutions set out in the draft legislation that would contribute to the more efficient and quality work of the state administration body. The Committee also supported the proposal's expressed wish for full implementation of the reform of the state administration system in accordance with European standards. On the proposal for the text of the law, we had certain objections, and in Article 6(1) should not, in our opinion, extend the time limit for the adoption of a decision on admission to the state service but should retain the time limit prescribed by the applicable law and provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Article 7. we believe that it is necessary to delete and maintain a 15-day period for the submission of an objection against a solution to admission to the state service. Article 11 is not to be amended as set out in paragraph 4. Article 16 is to delete a provision which provides for the exemption of the proper application of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act to the provisions of this law on investigation and investigational actions, as this makes it impossible for the official court to carry out an articulation procedure. In the new paragraph 5, the use of a written statement and a witness should be prescribed only as an exception, with reference to cases where such written statement may be used. The new paragraph 6 should be reshaped in such a way as to read: "In the case of a serious violation of official duty, the main debate may also be held without the presence of the officers against whom the case is conducted if there are important reasons for this, and the official has been duly called and exposed to his defence." Where Article 44 proposes to delete the provision of Article 111 of the applicable law, which provides that the assessment of the work of the officials, i.e. the householder with that provision, should also be brought into line with the provisions of Article 93, on the occasion of the determination of the results referred to above. In Article 48, the provision of a valid law stipulating that the official ceases his service under the law when he is 65 years of age and at least 15 years of retirement. In the same article, a provision should be put in place for the official to cease the civil service by force of the law if it fails to comply with the established standard. The Committee also expressed its view that, within the framework of the full reform, the system of state administration, the possibility of separateing the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament and the Professional Service of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, as officials in those bodies do not conduct administrative proceedings. After the debate unanimously with 9 votes in favour, we propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and ask that all of our remarks, proposals and opinions be included in the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16674	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the esteemed representative Alenka Kosisa Chicin-Shain. Here you go. What? You've changed? So change of Dragutin Lesar, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16675	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Alenka and I have just replaced the order. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when I read this proposal to amend the Law on State Servants and corporals all the time, it was my concern that my goals were set before this law came into practice both in the Government and in the Parliament, and I must say that my whole time was a rather vague objective of change, but by carefully listening to the opening explanation of Mr. Secretary of State, I understood that three objectives were set. First, on these amendments, we want to enable the state administration to prepare Croatia for European integration, secondly to act preventively in terms of discipline and thirdly to sanction or punish unhappiness or expertise. In that explanation, Mr. Secretary of State also mentioned a collective contract recently signed for the area and said that this collective contract introduced a reward for the loyalty of the state and state service. I don't think this award for loyalty to the state is appropriate because it would turn out that all of us who don't work in the state administration or those of Croatian citizens who don't work in the state administration are not loyal to the state and cannot be rewarded for it. However, neither in the light of the bill's proposal nor in the opening statement, it is not stated whether a discussion or consultation has been carried out on this proposal or perhaps an agreement between the social partners within the Economic and Social Council. Namely, what is the Labour Act for Croatia, this Law is for civil servants and tenants, and it seems to me that by coming with these amendments and additions and without any indication of what the position of the Economic and Social Council is, we Assembly representatives have been placed in the function of the arbitration officer who has at this time the least information in the whole area. The Economic and Social Council and there is a need for all possible misunderstandings, dilemmas, different proposals and attitudes to be resolved before Parliament is asked to arbitration in two completely contradicted at first sight of interest or a large number of objections from one, second or third social partner. If, therefore, the aim of these changes is to prepare state services for European integration, then I must say that we will certainly not get these changes, because in order for the state administration in Croatia to prepare and allow Croatia to prepare for European integration, it is certainly before and more important that we organise the state service on a service basis and that we know which service, which work, for whom it is doing, finally in Croatia in the regular system of education, we educate people of future employees and subsistence to get competent staff, starting with a system of recruiting young potential staff and that only the most capable, tansparence of state service data, resistance to political pressures and full information of the state system can enter this sector. Then maybe the sixth order could be prevention and punishment. What is being abolished by this Law is the need for a head to check whether the funds are provided, whether there is a job available in the system, whether elsewhere in the state service there is a free officer and a substitute, the famous availability left by different criteria, not always by the quality and ability of the servants, and all with the justification that young people can go away because they cannot progress because of those 5 or 10 who have to be satisfied in order to be appointed counsellor or senior advisor. There is also the possibility of hiring at a certain time of temporary work, with conditions and criteria that are quite elastic and it seems to me that there will be a major disturbance interest especially due to the suspension of availability. I wrote this concept to myself that it was an attempt or a desire to vent the official and the furniture frame. Citizens are meeting with the state in every office or office of the state local or regional administration or self-government, and indeed the position on the efficiency of the state is built on the basis of what this first meeting with the official, the manager. However, Mr. Secretary of State said these changes would help clean up the staff to open the space for new or young people. If, therefore, the aim of the Law is to clean up and create space for new, consequences or means of cleaning are cleaners, I do not believe that this was indeed the government's goal when this Law proposed, so I do not want to believe that it was the goal. Finally, the amendments to the Law that should allow for faster progress of young, capable and professional ones are based on bureaucratic criteria of years or formal conditions, I found no provision to speak of individual excellence, his skills and knowledge as criteria not only of employment but of promotion and protection from the need to be cleaned up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16676	On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak. Did you share the time? You've always put changes on, all right. Honorable representative of Alenka Kosisa Chichin-Shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16677	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Blowing, ventilation, cleaning or how we have all called all the attempts to regulate legislation that regulates the employment relations of employees in the state service is the fact that yet one full and necessary law on civil servants is not yet adopted which will ultimately give the right definition of a civil servant, his position in the state administration, his rights and his obligations in a serious and understandable way. First of all, it is necessary to prevent the practice by which any new government regulates employment in the state service as it is most appropriate. It is also necessary because the existing law is too comprehensive, confusing and not responding to the present moment, dynamics of change in society, and economy. And since a civil servant is actually a service to citizens, the need to adapt to those who serve it is more important. Taking into account that some of the provisions in the proposed Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants and corporals are written in the best interest and in accordance with the requirements of the Service, we cannot and do not wonder why the Working Group within the Ministry of Justice, which was formed in early 2003, in which representatives of all ministries, experts from the Faculty of Law and consultants from the European Commission, have completed their work. In fact, significant funds have been allocated within the cards of the programme, it is a few million euros for the draft law on civil servants modelling similar laws in the countries of the European Union, those in Western Europe as well as those in Central Europe, taking into account all the specificities of our country, traditions and customs of state service in this area. One of the main settings and the core starting point of this programme within the cards of the project is the existence of a central office. I note that the central office, which manages the staffing policy in the state service, therefore deals with human resources, cares about continuous training and training of civil servants, monitors and facilitates their progress and coordinates of employment in the state service. The proposal also comes from necessarily giving the right definition of a civil servant in order to finally restore lost dignity and authority. For example, in the current Law on civil servants and tenants, civil servants are high, higher or medium professional personnel. How, then, do civil servants differ from those of the same qualifications that work outside the public service? It is necessary to continue, and this is the intensity of the task force that I mentioned precisely define the criteria for entering the state service, where the selection of staff must not be left to the discretionary right of one person, the chief of staff, the secretary of the ministry or the minister to decide whose résumé is better and who is more suitable for which position in the state service. On the contrary, the working group proposes methods of testing and checking what are common today, in every slightly better company as well as passing a state exam of course better quality than before, not after entering the state service. It should not be overthinked to conclude that in this way the state administration would get a better quality and professional frame than it has so far. Honor the exceptions. What is certainly very important for each future Law on civil servants is clear provisions on the assessment of their work and opportunities for advancement. This existing law, but not in the proposal, is not sufficiently clear. As far as concrete objections to the law are concerned, let us take order. What is the basic intensity of the proposal ahead of us? Number one, transfer the responsibility of receiving new officers to the Minister's back. That's how they become the main staff. Is that really their job when we have a central office? And so far, ministers have decided on employment in ministries, some have abused it, so there's no reason not to do it this time. With that distinction, this proposal should provide for the resources available to them for the employment of new people. As if until now, it was not necessary to worry that new people should be admitted to the public service only if they had the means to do so. Under two, get rid of the "higher" put on the list this time for cancellation, and not at the disposal of those who are byproduct of the famous physical merger of ministries. Not guilty or indemnity along with some of the real surpluses to be admitted is there in the state service. The fact that the process of making it available is long and ineffective and that it is necessary to regulate the cancellation of the service to civil servants whose jobs are no longer needed. Thus, the bill that we are discussing abolishing the Institute of Attitudes and introducing lay-offs for those officers who are not assigned to job-frees for which they have conditions. Well, it's known that you can bring such a systematization where there's no room left. We therefore maintain with the aim of preventing injustice from being done to people who are employed in the public service, that Article 12 of the amendment is too harsh when it says that the objection does not retain the execution of the dismissal decision. Because in this case, we believe that officials must ensure two-stage treatment in the event of an objection to a solution in order to protect their rights. The same applies to Article 49. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16678	I'm not a colleague of yours, I was just praying for peace. Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Drazen Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16679	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law is in spite of a number of articles that are obviously not reformal and which obviously do not have some great reach of action, but are mainly improving and better regulated by certain institutes that already exist. It makes certain corrections to nomotechnical corrections, and I think it's far from the law that would intend to carry out any cleanup, because no institute that regulates it actually has any intention and cannot result in any cleaning. What to say about the state of the state of government at all with us, we are all actually in our programs each party advocates an efficient, fast, efficient administration, a administration that serves citizens right before which citizens will very quickly and effectively protect their interest and exercise their rights. And we are always inclined to say that we are far from that, although the secretary of state has brought out here and a very positive example of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia, where the foreign investor said that all necessary permits and all necessary documents were obtained within a very short time period, and in fact it is nice to hear and think and hope that it is not only an exception, but that there are still many such cases. What actually marks is, I mean the very poor equipment of our administration, the administration certainly needs to inform fully, make one database that will allow, indeed, that when citizens in procedures exercise their rights and interests not to be walked from the institution to the institution, from the counter to the counter, but that that officer who runs the procedure that all relevant facts are available to him from the database and that he can make very qualified decisions. And also one bad thing that marks, I mean bad pay in our administration, because all we've heard now is that there are intentions, possibilities of cleaning, I don't think we should be afraid of it, because employment in the administration today is not attractive. I think we can very easily check that your administration tax inspector has a salary of between 3.5 and slightly more than four thousand kunas depending on years of internships, and we still need to see and see that this is one of the state's significant jobs and a very professional and qualified job, so some kind of coup on the state service today doesn't exist with us. However, we can say that there is one reverse trend, which is that professional and qualified people accept jobs in other sectors, and I think we will definitely have to change that. We can also see that our administrative court is jammed, which means there are a lot of complaints, a lot of lawsuits for solutions in the administrative procedure. and I think that there should be some institutes that the current laws on administrative procedure and administrative dispute allow us, which is, in any case, that there are those casator powers that the solution by appeal does not have to be sent to a secondary procedure, but the body that brought it can also change it. Also, when a lawsuit is brought to the administrative court, it should not wait years, because the administrative court means a large number of cases, and it solves these matters for several years. The administrative body which has adopted the act, already knowing and considering the practice of the administrative court, has powers before the end and before the decision to amend such an act. I think that would be very good measures that should be recommended in all ministries. Of course, when we look at all this in one general context of our desire for fast and efficient administration, we understand in which direction we need to act. The HDZ Club will support this law and we are particularly pleased that the secretary of state has announced that a new law is being prepared that will be based on the European Union's experiences, and we hope that this will come very soon. From all that is said, we see that the only way to get to those goals is to get to those faster efficient administrations that the sooner we actually invest some of the funds in it to inform her, to equip her, to get this inspector when he gets to administrative surveillance to come with the laptop, not just for make-up, but for efficiency that he can actually do his job very well and quickly. And it's obvious that there's still a lot of work ahead of us, a lot of tasks that we need to do here to get there. This law, which is proposed here, brings minor improvements and I don't think there are any controversial details in it, and I believe and I am glad that it is, that it will be in two readings, and I think that these proposals that the Constitutional Committee tabled in writing I think they deserve to be discussed and most of them are certainly included in the final proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16680	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP Club, respected deputy president Mato Arlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16681	Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is good that we have this text of the law at the stage of the proposal, so it will go into two readings to actually debate in the first, second, and perhaps in the third reading, use it to open up a whole series of questions about the state administration because it simply deserves it on the one hand. And on the other hand, it is put as an imperative today in organising the functioning of the state government as such and the functioning of the state as a rule of law in particular. It is true that this is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law which essentially slightly improves the existing situation, would say a rag hole and does not open a reform of the state administration but at the same time it is the first step towards reforming the state administration. And we must be fully aware that there is a huge task ahead of us, to reform the state administration because we all want the state administration to be professional, well-organised, efficient, to act legally, to be professional, fast, to be a quality service for citizens in which they quickly and quality according to the law want to and succeed in achieving their rights. We must also say that such a goal that is to be achieved today is not only possible by amending and supplementing the law but it is absolutely necessary to adopt laws that will ensure both reorganisation and rationalisation, professionalisation, professionalisation, expertise, efficiency and the issue of payment, as well as the permanent education of the position of administrative officials and deputies, as well as the issues of administrative control, supervision of the legality of the conduct and legality of the work of administrative bodies. Unfortunately, why does it have to be done? For the simple reason that we have often been unable to address ourselves in the newly independent sovereign Republic of Croatia the need for the administration to be used as a solution to social and political issues, and it is true that during the Homeland and after the Homeland War it is often the administration of use and as a means to address the social problems of citizens through increased employment and resolving a whole series of issues and their... and, among other things, that it would be subject on the one hand to achieving the objectives, the political objectives of the authorities are actually often used for political purposes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was also particularly characteristic of the government's past meeting that we cannot particularly boast about the issue, the state administration has also used as a means of resolving difficult economic issues in the Republic of Croatia through the reduction of small salaries and incomes in the state administration so that the country that has come into a difficult economic situation and the financial crisis in its own, and in this respect should give public recognition to all the tenants and officials in the state administration who have given up a lot of things and at the same time have done their job in accordance with all that we do. For this reason, some questions should also be openly discussed in this amendment and in addition to the law. First of all, the fact is that the state administration is underpaid. Secondly, if unfortunately it still often depends on political decisions, it would also be said of political dependence against the bearers, political holders of government, not legal institutions now. Because let's not forget, yesterday we had a debate about the Parliament, among other things, that the administration would also act on the minister's policies rather than, in fact, that the state administration must act legally in accordance with what the law requires of it and in fact act not on the political will of anyone or on the part of the minister himself as the boss, ultimately, and that resolution to which it belongs. She's poorly equipped. He has relatively poor status and we are today without a doubt to talk to citizens when it comes to bribery and corruption, then everyone will say, among other things, it is management, often and uncritically, which does not mean that there is no bribery and corruption in the administration. There is but no need to generalise, there is no need to simplify it because often a great injustice is done, so it would be said that a more difficult form could be said to offend or to this profession at the end of the course that is present with us. Of course, there is a tremendously large fluctuation in the administration, and above all from the administration, and not within the administration, and for the reasons that the low wages, from all of what we have just said, incompetence, inefficiencies, there is no possibility of education, etc., or sufficient opportunities for education, cannot be quickly monitored and the changes to the legislative system that we must speed up and solve for a simple reason to get closer to this segment of the European Union, and therefore all of this suggests that in fact any debate on any proposal of the law on administration and on officials and tenants should be used to talk about these issues and at the same time to make a small move at least forward. The fact that, in this context, we at the SDP Club must say that there is one more thing that is equally important to note, which is that, unfortunately, management often suffers and a lot of things that don't by nature belong to management and management in this respect should be cleaned up, and in this respect, we immediately make one principled remark. The nature of things in itself because, for example, it does not run the administrative procedure of management is not and cannot be the professional service of the Parliament. Neither did we in the past, as a coalition government, manage to resolve the coalition government. It should now be seen to open up until the second reading the possibility to resolve this and also the professional service of the Constitutional Court. Not only is she not, but we in the Parliament have recognized it. For example, when it comes to Parliament’s Professional Service, we have made it clear that, among other things, the Presidency of the Parliament is determining and the Parliament is making a decision on the Professional Service of the Parliament. In addition, the Internal Order Regulation of the Professional Service shall be adopted by the Registrar, etc. Therefore, it should simply be pulled out of the state administration and resolved in a simple way that actually offices are especially related, etc. The same situation is also the case with the Constitutional Court, not only is it not by nature the Constitutional Court's Professional Service of the Administration in the classical sense of that word, but it cannot be because it does not deal with the administrative procedure and, in addition, the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court in Article 2(2) clearly states that the Constitutional Court is independent of all the authorities and independently allocates the resources set out in the state budget in accordance with its annual budget and the law for the functioning of the activities of the Constitutional Court and that the internal structure of paragraph 3. The Constitutional Court shall be governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court. Thus, these questions should simply be raised and eventually resolved. Another principled remark we would also like to say that despite the shifts we welcome from this proposal to the law, we would nevertheless like to note that a whole series of issues of course seem to be positive but the assessment of the situation is cited among other things the need for the reduction of the necessary conditions for deployment to the jobs of counselors and senior advisers as we accept in order to attract young professional staff to the state administration, so there are amendments to the relevant articles. At the same time, however, the Institute of Attending is abolished and the positive effects of the above-mentioned legal changes that we have had so far are being abrogated when the state body is abolished. Or actually opening something that's not good. That political decisions are actually done to clean up the state administration rather than on the basis of professional issues, solutions. And in this respect, we support colleagues from the HNS that an instrumentation should be introduced and it should be legislated on estimating the way of work and quality to achieve the expression of expertise and quality and that practically in the state administration people are not accepted by political criteria or as far as it is possible to avoid it absolutely rather than by the professional skills and working qualities they have. Second, we have a whole series of individual questions in remarks that we would like to say that a second reading is being considered. On the one hand, it is unacceptable for us to wish to please the tenants and officials, which is good and, at the same time, they want to make the position they are in unfairly difficult for us in some matters. For example, Article 6 and some others extend deadlines for the adoption of the Competition Decision from 60 to 90 days, at the same time extending the time limit for the cancellation of tenders from 60 to 90 days, which pleases the authorities of the state administration as bodies that actually have a higher level of commodity to us completely unnecessary because, according to the administrative procedure itself, the subject has to be resolved in much, much more complex cases, a state administrator or employee in the business must resolve within 60 days and now the whole body needs 30 days more. Well, now that you're looking at this aspect, then you have a completely different situation that, for example, in the case of complaints and complaints from workers in the administration about his injured rights, the period of 15 days is reduced to 8 days, which actually makes it difficult or difficult for him to study his own situation so that he can make a quality complaint, conversation, etc. Therefore, the deadlines applicable to all other workers in the system should be left, so why should that deadline be moved by 15 days for civil servants, i.e. householders and officials in, to the detriment of them. Another point we would also like to say is the question, for example, in Article 11 where the text is deleted, which determines the publication of a reception ad for a certain period of time through the competent employment service. First of all, it's about those competitions and ads in the employment service. We believe that this is not good, first of all, because we need to open up in ourselves every time the possibility of achieving every constitutional norm, and especially that constitutional norm that allows all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to have access to public administration and, in particular, public service in institutions that have public authority. It's simply an imperative norm. Therefore, it is only for this reason that it is necessary to have a parent at the Employment Service, namely to announce that whoever wants to report and access it on equal terms to be chosen. Secondly, from the point of view of quality and functioning, and also the reorganization of the state administration, it is quite clear that as many candidates as possible occur, which is the possibility of selecting a better quality and greater solution in the rule that will be of interest, in fact, for the functioning of the state administration, and that it is efficient, efficient and fast, of course, and that it is legally operational. We also have an observation where an amendment is proposed to repeal the evaluation provision but no amendment is proposed in the law itself. Now, we, in addition, suggest that the evaluation be abolished and the provisions that speak of the evaluation of Article 93 to 95 remain, has not changed, and that part should be cleared up until the second reading to be qualityd. A similar point of view regarding the protection of the position of staff in the state administration of householders and officials is related to this new solution offered in Article 48 and the amendment and addition of Article 118, which suggests that practically state administration employees should be given the conditions for retirement beyond the age limit, is that they should be increased from 15 to 20 years at a time, and that the team is actually called upon to be more favourable to civil servants and residents. I think it is not and should be well considered, at the end of the day, the position of officials and deputies in the state administration is very specific and should leave that possibility to remain the density of the pension internship for 15 years and the age limit of 65 years and of course the possibility of taking care of it further. In the final part, we would like to point out in particular that we consider this Amendment to the Law a small inter-phase that only needs to create an approach and a basis for access to the reform of the state administration, and in this reform it should take great care to achieve, of course, the goals that are important for the state administration to be both professional and well-organised, effective, to work legally, to be professional, fast, to be a quality service of citizens, all of which is ton, but at the same time it must not happen that reforms and the reorganisation of the state administration should be carried out in order to put it simplistically "through the back of the tenants and officials" and not to criticise events, bring people into a position to remain without work, or without their existence, etc. And in this respect, we believe that it is necessary to consider this issue in quality, and even to consider the possibility that if it is necessary, given that we are all aware that in certain segments, in particular, the state administration has happened to be overworked, that there are too many employees in relation to the real needs of these public administration bodies to actually consider such a possibility well and not to exclude the possibility of adopting and a special law on so-called. administrative retirement, of course under certain conditions and in certain criteria without these people coming into a situation not only to be a burden of social care but to get into a situation that after they have done a large and significant part of their life and working life to practically remain in a difficult situation, it is almost impossible for them to get back to work, to have their existence questionable and that, both them and their families. We will subscribe this amendment to the law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16682	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HSP Club, Honored Representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16683	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, it is well known that there is no functioning of the rule of law unless the state administration works in a way that protects the rights of citizens and, therefore, if the state administration works automatically, conditions will be met that the judiciary will also function. Because the state administration and the judiciary are like the law of a pooled vessel. Because everything the state administration doesn't do will end up in justice. And that's why we're in this situation that we're in right now. Everyone, before the elections and after the elections, promises two things, the functioning of the rule of law, the reform of the state administration in such a way that the state administration will be small and effective and most importantly that the administration will be in the role of citizens. That's what we say from the '90s to the day, but unfortunately, none other than those words have been achieved. Our government is in worse and worse shape than it was. If that were the way we MPs see it best, what kind of regulations, drafts, or bill proposals we get. We get bill proposals where the notion of legal rejection and rejection is marred and at every law school falls like a pear when it does not distinguish the concept of rejection and rejection of requirements, when it does not distinguish the concept of printing and pattern. Or getting just from the Central Office of Laws that say they're forming and forming new bodies and when they're going to start working they don't know. Therefore, it all says what kind of situation the state administration is in, and the reform is necessary but in order to move into reform it must be seen what it will be, it must be seen what the situation is and we ourselves know that we have a huge number of employees and deputies in various ministries, central authorities of the state administration without talking about the offices of the state administration at the county level because it is a huge bureaucracy that has become the purpose of the county and it is a huge bureaucracy that has become its purpose. She's not as capable as she is in other countries as Marx Weber says because she's capable of red tape. That's our luck. A capable bureaucracy governs both the people and the ministers and the government and the leadership. That is, you can watch that show "Yes, Prime Minister", but we have cases like that. Let's just say two cases have been like this before. First of all, we have received the same response from the Prime Minister Sanader as Racan signed for the term of office. Only difference was who the government represented. Another example is that bureaucracy can be managed is that the speech of the Prime Minister at the opening of this section on June 30th, the highway, was the same as the speech of former President Racan when he opened the same. That's the part where the able bureaucracy manipulates and basically decides. The "Yes, Prime Minister". And now we here to begin this big debate have heard two very strong statements by the Secretary of State. He says: “The state administration in Croatia is no better or worse than others.” So who were you referring to? Have you, have you compared it to Zanzibar, Albania, and we know for ourselves what the state administration is, what the public's position is. And he says, one of the goals is that people in the state administration who aren't there are found. It's always a problem for the government to change. There's always people who don't belong there. But then we settle on the principle of professionality. On the basis of the principle of expertise, the state administration will, in this way, edit the evaluation system so that we can get to the right indicators. So from this proposal, only two objectives are visible, and that is, whenever it comes to the change of government, the state administration of the unsuitable is being resolved and new, new personnel are being employed. We saw ourselves in the media that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and without competition employs new staff, and there are families of the officials themselves, and then it is in that group that these jobs are such security and so important to carry out jobs past the competition. Such things and such practices need to be abolished in a way that will really create a state administration that will function as citizens. We can't get to that part to make sure the rules are right. For the state administration, the first most important is the precise determination of jurisdiction. To know who, what, and how to do it exactly. That's the work of the state administration. It is therefore a regulation on the internal organisation or internal order regulation where the systematisation is determined. Then you go to business so you group and determine the number of perpetrators and everything else. So it's a modern and modern state administration. In such a administration, I don't know, this solution related, I think it's an 11th increase in the range of jobs that will be employed by new employees. How are you going to do it? When the key is known that the Ministry of Finance approves the funds, it means for employees to work according to the number of employees, or according to the number of systematicised part of them will increase. And it's always a practice to go towards the number of employees plus those material costs. This is one condition which was the basic criteria of the Ministry of Finance in approving the budget for work, that part. And the very fact that jobs are said to appear within the workplace means that the good itself is not systematization done. And we also have the same big problem that was before, which is also the day today to make the law, and this is about the state administration being used by the same people from other ministries or experts and they do it normally for money. And we have a government that should be paid for it. This law also has a large number of pearls, so I'll just mention some. For example, in Article 38, which amends Article 103, it states: “When a state body is abolished, and the work and officials of the abolished state body are not taken over by another state body,” is that possible? That we had a state body that had prescribed jobs and then we shut it down and no one takes over. It's a bit of a weird and theoretical situation. As it may be, it means that this state body wasn't supposed to exist first, right? If it means it didn't work. For if, here, it is said: “if it is abolished, and no one takes over the affairs” so who will answer what such a state body is founded. So he was doing these jobs. Such pearls have a small million. This article states: “The official may, if necessary, be temporarily moved to jobs in the same or other state body, in the same or other place of work, but only” says “if the conditions of that job are the same as the conditions of employment”. So it has to stand exactly. It's possible in a systematization that it stands for, say, a guidance counselor or, say, another political one, but if it doesn't say so in another, then it couldn't be, and it needs a legal direction. I mean, there's a situation like that that's obviously this, and it's neither simulated nor known what's meant to be said. Now let's get back to that part of the call. For a long time, they've been talking about one of those same things all the time. They had the first thing to say for an expert associate is to require a high-level expert preparation and, and can be deployed a man if he passes a state expert exam. Then we had a 5-year internship after a state-run examination, and for a senior advisor, we had five years of standing after a state-run professional exam with the fact that there was another supplement that the government itself meant to determine whether someone met the conditions for a senior advisor's appointment, that there were independent published or processed professional papers. And that was the criterion. We know for ourselves that heads of state authorities are appointed in a way that they don't have years of employment on these jobs at all. And now we're going back to that old idea, so we're reducing the number of years for counselors, the job internships, we're reducing the number of years of senior advisors, and that's how we're going to hire professional young people. Who worked at the state administration is a trade. The best was the Austro-Hungarian system, it's a trade and needs to be studied. There are certainly some places especially in the economy and others, but let's do this by the master's, doctorate system and some of the results previously shown in this area so that as an expert you can come to special jobs. But with us, it's always about the payment system. The government's salaries are low. And then in systematicizations, when they are doing systematicizations and they are trying to put as many senior advisors as possible to keep people in order to get higher wages, the higher the number of commissioners, and that way we get a system that doesn't work. Either you go to the establishment of a department with two or three men who will kill to act in that department even though five people will be systematicized. It's not for business or for the efficiency of the administration, it's just done with us for wages. And such problems we have a large number of problems, and because we would make a state administration that would be the size of a Croatian man, in order to function first, let's make the right assessment of the state of the situation, let's see how much we need the bodies of the state administration because, unfortunately, we are now going to that part, as we have reduced the number of initial ministries and state administrations... And then there's the second wave of enlargement. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The increases, and again we go back to where we were, where we were, are not exactly the competences of jobs between ministries, overlaps with partial work, and we come to the same situation that we used to be, so a lot of things don't work for us. I think that, in all of this, the Ministry should also look at a sigma programme that reuglifies how and how to form a modern state administration. Therefore, in this part of the HSPa club is available, this has no character of any fundamental change, no improvement in the situation in which we are. This is intended only to solve some things temporarily but not permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation by the respected representative Emil Tomljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16685	Mr. President, an esteemed colleague has been told that the aim of the law is to get rid of unspeakable civil servants and subsistence officers. It is simply not true, for the sake of the public to say it and about the reasons and intensity to pass such a law I will speak more in an individual debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16686	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16687	Mr. President, this is about confirmation of Article 209. I quoted paragraphs 1 and 2 as saying the esteemed Secretary of State Palaric, that people who did not belong there were found.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16688	Kola Kovacevic, MP Tomljanovic, is holding that your claim is incorrect that one of the objectives of this bill is to resolve political inconsistencies. By holding that false fact, he opposed it and stated that he considered it incorrect. You can't correct the quote. No, I don't. /Speakers speak out loud/ It is very precise and clear I follow, it is very precise and clear, is your claim factually correct or is it true what was the correcting of an incorrect quote it is another thing. But you cannot, under the company's injuries, correct the Rules of Procedure in your opinion, answer the incorrect allegations of another agent. I ask you on this occasion to stick to it, because the Rules of Procedure imposes an obligation on the President to report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and this is not a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure to give notice to the MP, I will not do so now, but I ask the MPs to stick to it in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16689	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16690	Correction of the incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Branimir Pasecki.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16691	Mr. President, I have to defuse my friend Kovacevic. It is an inappropriate comparison, and it is not true that when it comes to red tape that the Prime Minister was saying the same thing the former Prime Minister was saying. First of all, he could not do any red tape because he spoke out of his head. It is also inappropriate that he spoke a hundred years later today as an example of Austrian regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16692	We also have an example here, the MPs appear to correct incorrect allegations, and then one part of the document is an incorrect quote, but they usually have some add-on. They usually have some addition, and that supplement does not mean correcting an incorrect quote, but it means a certain comment. I'm just saying that every president will have to be rigorous, yes. counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović corrects the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16693	Mr. President, you said the good part yourself, but only in that part of what you said on the addendum. And it's all about the whole exposure. Because it doesn't work, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because I don't know how many times I repeat it instead of replicating it, are used so the opposite of the Rules of Procedure by misusing the Rules of Procedure.../species has been excluded/... and therefore please, President, it is certainly and it is obvious now that the SDP Club has lost this plate yellow so I ask you to get it if you think to use it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16694	What can I get you? Let's move on. State Secretary Antun Palarić please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16695	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, no innuendo gives meaning to this Law to resolve politically inadequate civil servants. In addition to the Law on the Transfer of Authorities, the government has explicitly stated that officials are not coming, their position is not at stake in the change of government. I pointed out that we can't charge in general with bribery, corruption, unhappiness, but that's what individuals do. And that the purpose of this law is to strengthen, among other things, the effective instruments of official courts. And it's not by political similarities that someone leaves the state service, to be decided by the minister or the head of the body, but by the official courts chaired by the judges. The judges of regular courts, sitting in these courts, decide on discriminatory responsibility for the most serious violations of official duty under this Act and with the application of the Criminal Procedure Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16696	The correction incorrectly states the respected representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16697	Mr. President, Secretary of State Palaric's reaction to the state administration has been found by people who do not belong there. So he was supposed to say that they found people so professionally named place, and this is how it can be interpreted as a political qualification.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16698	Let us welcome the council members of the Municipality of St. Mary who are a little accompanied by a part of the work of the Parliament from the gallery. And I'd like an honorary representative of Zdenko Harami on behalf of the HSS Club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16699	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues. Although the Law on civil servants and tenants came into effect at the end of March 2001, so it is a newer law, we at the HSS Club are making every amendment and addition to the law if it goes towards improving the situation. These amendments and additions to the law on civil servants and tenants are precisely on the trail, so we believe it will contribute to better and more meaningful work of the state administration. The main changes are aimed at facilitating the reception of the state service and making the complicated procedure as simple as possible, and then at abolishing the facilities and finally easing the conditions for the deployment of advisors and inspectors. As regards the change in the official process of receiving to the state service, the current system of checks with even two ministries and that of the Ministry of Finance and the one responsible for the professions of the General Administration is hereby abandoned. On the existence of conditions for receipts, and on the provision of money for the salaries of officials, and on the existence of a job. On the absurdity of the provision that the ministry responsible for the affairs of the General Administration may know whether there is an open place or not to speak. Because, of course, only a state institution or institution that needs to receive a new employee may decide on the need to fill and on the free location of either the empty place or the new one. We believe that the abolition of the state officials' facilities will lead to easier resolution of surplus employees in the state administration. This means liberating part of the financial resources aimed at improving the working conditions of civil servants and subsistence. Which would result in their greater efficiency. It should be noted that by abolishing this institution, civil servants and tenants are evened out in their labour rights with all those who are in a working relationship under the Labour Act. We consider the most important change to be the one concerning the mitigation of the conditions for schedules at the jobs of advisers and inspectors, as they reduce the years of work needed to fill certain jobs, so that for administrative advisers, inspectors of other types, expert advisors, IT consultants from 5 to 3 years, and for more administrative advisers, more inspectors, more expert advisors and more IT advisers from 10 to 5 years. We also welcome the amendment of the rules relating to officials who, during the course of their service, acquire the technical equipment which is higher than the technical provision necessary for the jobs of the workplace, can be moved to the workplace in the same national body when they have acquired a certain technical equipment, or deployed to the workplace for which the official has acquired the professional training, but only at the workplace of the lowest complexity of the work, and provided that at least two years of employment has been achieved in that national body. This change will have a stimulating effect on government employees, to perfect, to further qualify and to acquire higher professional equipment than those they had. As far as the trainees are concerned, it is the fact that after having passed the national expert exam they can also be deployed without conducting the competitions in that state body where they have performed the training if there is a free place for which they meet the conditions. We consider this to be stimulating so that primarily young schooled personnel remain in the state administration, of course we also assess this to contribute to improving the quality of the work of the state at first. The HSS Club will support this law in its first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16700	Thank you very much. Honorable representative William Herman on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Libre.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16701	Mr. President, Vice President, Mr. Palaric, colleagues and colleagues. Perhaps the first few introductory notes about what was actually missing in the presentation of Mr Palarić, that is, whether we want to have reform soon, how much about this proposal is the amendment and addition of the Law on Officials and Detentions with this reform, etc. So in the broadest sense, the state administration is a service and must be in service of course to its users. The work of the administration must be such as to adapt to the needs of the users without being expected to adapt to the administration. The administration must prepare information and generally create conditions so that political officials can make the best decisions at a certain point, and the policy must then enable the administration to implement them in a legal and effective manner. The administration of each country, regardless of its size and population, must respect the specificities of a given country and be at the service of its users. The Croatian administration, given the number of inhabitants, the size and geographical shape of the country, is under additional burden. This should also be added to the need for comprehensive changes brought about by the European integration process within a relatively short period. Furthermore, the state administration of each country is one of the essential factors of the country's competitiveness in relation to other countries. Because of its tasks, the number of people who employ, the resources it has and the roles it has in society, the state administration can be and must be the generator of change in the whole society. Here's just one example. The use of information in the administration encourages greater information for society as a whole. The only way to respond to these pressures and challenges is to create a administration that is flexible, well communicateable and coordinated within itself and is able to focus all its potential on solving concrete problems. A small country like Croatia that must be open, which is subject to the influence of the so-called external events need to be able to act rather than dispersion. The need to restore citizens' trust, and that is probably what needs to be insisted, but also state officials in the state administration as well as its reconstruction so that long-term goals can be achieved in the general national interest. This little doctoring is solely for the purpose of showing that there are certain principles to be managed when accessing a huge business called State Administration Reform. Here on this case, on this example of amendments and additions to the Law on Officials and Landlords, we are actually facing only questioning, only slightly touching what is the essence of the problem. But here's to the law itself. These proposed amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants and tenants may be considered by our court as an attempt to eliminate the problems identified in everyday practice and on a particular segment. We will say that this is the case, the opening of the possibility of faster progress of young, professional and educational staff, i.e. the prevention of spillouts due to small or long-term opportunities for progress in the system of state administration. Prescribing a simpler way of receiving the state service as it has been made by the proposal may also be considered to be opening it. Because the same system shows a whole series of things that are defined as incarceration, as the hermetization of the state administration, and that's fine. In addition to this, there is a clear danger that the proposed changes result not only in possible but almost certain abuses within the system, which is why it is necessary to work on the responsibilities of the persons who decide in the procedures in question to receive or progress in the service, and here is our basic observation, with that general observation that only a little bit has been scratched on the surface, and that in the whole of the issues of what is really a reform by definition has not actually entered. That is why the question asked to Mr Palarić as a representative of the promoters and we would like to hear the answer, how much does this Amendment Law apply in the first place, and the additions of the Law on Officials and Paids to the planned reform, where it is, whether it's part of the mosaic or simply one of the paralytics that says a measure that will allow for the resolution of what is burning and we delay something that has actually caused this as a burning problem. And what is that? In fact, the tromostness and dysfunction of our entire state administration. Secondly, we have been listening to each other these months and even before 23 November about a single syntagma that is roughly pronounced like this, and it is very serious: "one stop shop" when translated, and in Croatian there is a perfectly normal one, there is a perfectly normal syntagma or translation that means one step in trade or shopping. So one stop shop said so many times was supposed to represent something that is a magic wand that when it is introduced suddenly solves all the wonders, all the shortcomings, but empty walks and what is most important incompetence of the Croatian state administration. So what's a colleague and Mr. Proposer's representative, Mr. Palaric with that stop shop? It's not just one option, of course, but it's one of the key options we would agree on, but in the reform process. Where it is, it is said to be fully understood, in fact, about the unnecessary tour of the office that all the public understands about the unnecessary tour of the office, so entering an office and then the administration solves what your civic need is because of different legal issues, and simply because you are a citizen who you have the right to be comfortable in your country when you are confronted with the state administration and you must not be confronted but must be in a partner relationship. So, what's up with that famous out-of-the-hundred shop. Furthermore, we think that it is necessary to have a quick approach to redefine the concepts of a civil servant and a substitute. The data that exists now is very warning because there is an explicit overweight of civil servants and their number is somewhere around 49,000, which is spring data from 2003, while the tenant is around 4200. So obviously, since the relationship between the first and the second powers is quite different, that this weightiness on the page of the number of officials tells of something that gives a strong message. We think that it simply has to happen to a smaller number of employees not because of the fact that someone wants to get rid of it, whether there is a political or other similarity because only one similarity can be in play it is the quality of the jobs done and the ability to serve as an introductoryly said citizen in all his needs and most in the quality of being faced with the administration by the one who is the object but the one who solves things because his administration really wants to solve it. So, simply a small number of officials and then as a result of this application of the general rules on working on the furniture, that is, I think the alphabetical order would almost dare to say a lesson and thus establish a much higher relationship between the first and the second. Next, we're wondering if this is from the bill we're reading, which is actually one of the options, I don't see that it's so defined as actually hiring for a certain time. We think that the generally flexible forms of employment in the administration should be applied, should be applied not only for the purpose but for the first time, so that the administration does not continue to budge and without those bases that actually justify employment and the second reason that in fact, in a very simple way, the relationship of competition between those who are employed and who are employed at that particular time, while these jobs are generally in my court such that they need to be more complex, but they are more complex and thus creating a whole new atmosphere. Here's another opportunity to answer the question, is that in this proposal? There's no way in our court and it's supposed to be. We further think equally so that the change of description, that it is necessary to change the descriptions of jobs, of course in the case of civil servants to see the main duties of these officials and to see the level of their responsibilities, must be very precisely done. In this way, it is possible to create what we do not have a business plan for that civil servant in relation to the business plan of the administrative unit. When that happens then there can be no empty walk, I am saying all of this for good purposes and why would it be said that it would be different, but here are a series of questions that I asked my colleague Palaric from the final question whether there is a colleague of Palaric on your part I do not doubt the expertise, but the political will to actually enter that area called State Administration Reform. There must be no maneuvering, just as there should be no maneuvering about the Croatian local self-government, regionalisation and decentralisation, about the important issue of the financial part in that it is decentralisation, so I would say these processes about reforming the state administration and those others that I mention are actually on the same track that this country becomes competitive. Competitive not by creating the impressions of political and other people but by doing practical projects and by doing what is necessary in its legal order, which is to be overly responsible for Europe. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the president has left, and we welcome him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16702	Thanks for saying hi. In accordance with Article 207(2), the time has elapsed for a 10-minute hearing. The word has the Secretary of State Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16703	Mr. Vice President, I must, of course, respond to the honourable representative whether there is a political will for reform. That the political will for full reform of the state administration exists, and a number of measures have been taken. One of these is the establishment of this central state office, which will be operationally accountable to the Government and Parliament through the Government for the implementation of this reform. The reform will not only create this office but will also be created by European Commission experts who are already working with us on a new law on the state service that will be on the highest standards of Europe, which will in a different and overall way regulate the state service but this new law will also require a time of adjustment and therefore the purpose of this Law is that, as long as the law is passed in its and sublaws, it will allow new young people to be admitted to the state administration so that they can reform the state administration itself and the whole society. But apart from this central state office body and other than European Commission experts, we have included domestic experts in the framework of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Commission and also within the National Competitiveness Council. So in the end, we will sum up all the proposals, define the scope of decentralisation, the scope of the business that remains in the state administration's work, review the organisational structure, and certainly as a reform of the state administration as a whole propose to this House, which will contain a whole series of laws. That's how much, this law is not a reform, this is just adapting the existing state to this to make it possible to create assumptions for reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16704	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by the esteemed representative Herman.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16705	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Palaric, it is therefore incorrect to suggest that a reform should begin, which is the essence of your presentation, thanked you for having responded to my presentation. And it is true that the past government has prepared a major project of state administration reform, and this project is written by experts, not by the government, but by Croatian experts and experts from abroad, I am warning only because when the former government is said not to get any kind of allergic fallout, but rather that material that exists should be consulted. Some things I'm here that you've been listening with interest to nod your head from that material, and that was very interesting and symbolic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16706	Thank you. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16707	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with his associate, MPs and MPs. Here, in the week in which we are discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants and corporals which is one step in reform how to get to a faster and more effective state administration as Mr. Secretary of State said at the same time, in the same week, the Voice of the Council announces, "Croatian country of unemployed and aimless?" What exactly does firing a top expert mean? So one thing we do, another we talk. And third, we may have some will as the secretary of state has said. In fact, how to really get to a fast and efficient administration, that's what everyone's saying. However, it can and simply be thought and checked, is that so. But basically to answer how to get to a faster and efficient administration means to answer a simple question, how to get to quality personnel, but also how to solve bad people in general in public administration? And you don't have to come up, there's people like that. And it's precisely because of these good and top-notch frames that are draining, losing their will, losing their motive. And it seems to me that the transition to a true, market economy is not possible without the simultaneous transformation of ideological public administration into a politically neutral, professional, and then it will be stable. One of our most prominent administrative law expert said that the Croatian State Administration during the 1990s was a paradigmal example of irrationality and do not worry about spending taxpayers' money. By doing so, we can agree more or less, but no doubt it was time, and the reasons were different and should be objective. When the state administration came in. So we got one big, inefficient administrative apparatus at all levels. At all levels of the political administration system. The destroyed economy, the destroyed economy simply couldn't stand that huge state apparatus anymore. This and thus hypertrophysed state apparatus, the state and general public sector. There during the 1990s, only in two ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Police had over 100,000 employees. After political changes, after 2000 something was done in any case not enough. It mainly worked to reduce the number of employees, but it did not follow something that was necessary to monitor, and above all, it was already parallel to the reduction in the number of employees and the reduction in wages. It certainly wasn't good, although it certainly was necessary to cut the state apparatus still undoubtedly work, but then precisely in that objective of the crucial way that qualified, quality personnel get through and raise wages. So we really get a good, small, well-paid, and ultimately a cheaper administration than having an army of many, many, and low-paid ones. So something was done on the rationalization plan. But I'm not saying enough. It is necessary precisely to take measures that will be radical to make the administration of the state effective. Because an effective, efficient and orderly administration is also an assumption of joining the European Union under the 2001 Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and this is not disputed. But it's also important, in fact, that it's an integral part and that it's transparent and open, in that sense the Free Access Act has been passed. However, here in public a little, little, so they object that the law is not respected. So, good administrations can be achieved precisely if it is open and transparent, but also that it has such procedures, legal procedures and procedures that will be quick, which will be effective, which will ultimately make it possible. After all, why and why are we talking so much about it? Because it is simply a good, fast, quality administration prerequisite for human and citizen rights and generally contributes to the development of the country's democratic development. And as he has seen it already and prominently, it seems to me that he spoke to his colleague Herman, that it is necessary to shape just one quality vision of the development of public administration the government owns one good material, it may well be improved, but it certainly goes right in this direction. An orderly administration which is also carefully not without any meaning handles documents both in classical but also in electronic form the assumption is precisely and effective, this also has been spoken here and it needs to be repeated by an effective judiciary. There is no effective judiciary without an effective administration. So without reforming the public administration, it's just a matter of efficiency and other systems. Why? Because both public administrations and the judiciary are two mutual systems in law enforcement. The judiciary is ultimately the one that controls the legality of the work of the state administration about it I'll do something later. But right now, I might point out exactly how a government government, not only is it effective, but rather how much it cares about legality. It's very easy to see. You can take a statistical review of how in a particular ministry the decision of the administrative court has been annulled, abolished, and here we are just talking about such cases, that it has been unlawfully fired by civil servants and subsistence officers. It's interesting to really watch from the '90s to the day of today. And there's everything visible. Not only have rights been violated, so officials, civil servants and tenants, but it has been so increased for years because of the expiry of the deadline that in no number of cases up to 600, 700, 800 thousand kuna for each individual civil servant and tenant. On the other hand, we haven't created this bill, nor does it allow, how to get rid of bad people. I will re-emphasise an example that a former minister pointed out when he initiated proceedings against a state official, who for two years solved a single case and received a warning. And that's exactly what an intensity should be to this law. But not only intensity, because the law isn't just a good law when it has a good intensity, but also whether it has good mechanisms to achieve exactly that good intensity. And the good intensities we will not believe in them and the Priors, but indeed if they make it possible. The truth is, at first glance, it seems that it is precisely allowing for the flow of or the arrival and reception of the public service. However, it is also possible to fire faster from the service but there are no visible mechanisms, there are no visible criteria. What are the criteria? The reality of every day denies us that good experts either leave or release themselves. Therefore, it is something that seems to me to be very important and what must be taken into account by the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16708	Thank you. The replica was reported by the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16709	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the House of Representatives! Here I am reporting to replicate and to remind the period from 2000 to 2001 of the situation in the state administration and especially in the Croatian Parliament, and I will note these mistakes since the law was passed since 2001. Errors were made with regard to the length of the service, the height of the professional training, the type of professional training, even the officers were deployed to non-prescripted jobs. Furthermore, they were deployed to jobs for which a smaller number of perpetrators were envisaged. The coefficients for the complexity of transactions have been incorrectly established and are also not acted upon by the measures given by the Administration's inspection and the measures were to bring these acts into line and to amend incorrect solutions. Madam MPs, you were the minister of that ministry of resoluteness who needed to correct those solutions. You've tolerated those solutions for over a year. Through such a system favored favored by favored personnel, however it is not good and with such reforms we absolutely do not want to go and this government that officials and deputies will not be all equal before the law and the Constitution and were just unequal in the past period before the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16710	Thank you. Dear Representative Antičević, I don't know if the correction is an incorrect allegation.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16711	On the replica, on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16712	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16713	It is incorrect to say that when I was a minister at the head of the Ministry of Justice, the administration and local self-government that it was not controlled or that there were very conscious solutions, but we do not have the power to do so but only control the legality and all the solutions that were illegal have been abolished. That's number one. Because no solution to the Administrative Court has failed, Madam MPs, and what I'm doing here is that we need to get a political neutral administration in which it will be possible for a good clerk and a tenant to advance but not to the Parliament, but to his professional services. It's a political neutral administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16714	Thank you. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is a respected representative of Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16715	Here, Mrs. Antičević injured the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 209 because she did not correct the allegations. I'll just remind...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16716	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16717	She didn't have to fix it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16718	Dear Representative Šolić, not Mrs...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16719	Sublegal acts of decision on professional service Regulation...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16720	Dear Representative Šolić, allow me. The MP Antičević did not report for the correction of the incorrect allegations, but for the replica and did not harm Article 209. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16721	But the breach of Rule 209 is paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16722	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative Milanka Opačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16723	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs! So speaking today about this Law amending the Law on civil servants and tenants I think we can talk and maybe a little wider and say a few things about how important it is to transform public administration in the first place. In each country and so on, the public administration is often an obstacle to a successful transition to a democratic society and to the development of a market economy, and therefore many changes are needed in order for such a public administration to primarily carry out its two basic objectives and tasks. The first is to do the job of joining the European Union, the job is not easy at all, it is not easy at all. And secondly, to be available to citizens and to the economy, where I think today Croatian citizens are fully and publicly and state-owned as something that is put before them when they need to solve certain problems as a kind of barrier. In fact, we also had in the past coalition Vld a study that went in the direction of detecting all administrative barriers and a good part of that study of administrative obstacles was removed, however, there is, of course, a lot left to be done to make the administration available and effective and therefore to avoid being an obstacle to the rights of citizens or economic development. It should be said that, in all the requirements put forward to future members of the European Union, there are no specifics about the public in this case, we are talking here today about the works of the state administration, but it is about the need to improve administrative capacity. I must say, during the former coalition government, some amendments to the Law on civil servants and tenants were made. I have to say that today you can see that this law did not bring much good to the state administration, unfortunately it brought a lot of bad things, it brought a few of them, I would say, brakes that have stalled if certain things in the state administration had changed. Unfortunately, the people who wrote the law at the time sought to prevent all the irregularities that had occurred solely because of certain political criteria until 2000, and unfortunately in the past four years these changes have tied their hands to a lot of things in the state administration. I would primarily say that they have tied their hands in the ability to reward those people who are really doing their job, who are very useful, who are not asking for overtime, you couldn't reward them because we simply eliminated such a system because by 2000 it was misused and was given exclusively on a party basis. I here today from this position can say that it was a bad assessment and a bad amendment to that law and that it was obviously meant to go and change the practice rather than the law. I would like to say that it seems to me that there will be no movement in the state administration unless a systematic education for civil servants is introduced. In fact, not only is it known in the state administration, but in many jobs, people who come with high professional training have one basic education, but every job, and this one in the public service, is also specific, and it certainly requires additional education, and of course we all know that without one lifelong education, there is no progress. As far as I'm aware, by the time I was 90, there was something that seemed to be called the Public Administration Office that worked very well. Unfortunately, in the 1990s, such a single institution was destroyed and I think the consequences of all this are seen in the state of government as we do today. For this reason, I think that it should be formed or re-enacted by some institution for the education of civil servants or institutes or any other institution, which would help the functioning of the state administration from one professional point of view. But I also think that this law should introduce compulsory education for civil servants. Why do I say commitment? Because we know that even when some education is organized, many officials avoid it because they feel that they do not need it and that they know everything about what can be presented there. I think that education is an integral part of the job and that it must be, therefore, mandatory and that it cannot be based on one voluntary element of the individual whether or not it will, it must agree to education and must be done simply in order to ensure quality civil servants. It's an aspec in which we can help get a good, quality, capable and educated state administration. But also another segment that's very important and it's the safety of business. The safety of the job, namely, if you know that, let's say at best for 4 years, for a term of some authorities after that 4 years, you have a lot of chances of being replaced, fired from the state service, of course it's hard to expect from anyone who is professional, capable, who may already be working on some and much, much better paid jobs than those in the state service, it's hard to expect such a job to leave and come to the state service where the job is, therefore, very uncertain precisely because the policy on it decides. And that's why I don't think it was a good thing that Mr. Palaric here in his opening part said, so this one sentence, we want to clean up the state administration because it can be interpreted. Therefore, the security of work in the state administration must be somewhere, somewhere guaranteed, of course, that it will only be safe for people when we start living like that. So, no law will give people a sense of security just our practice that will show that they will not leave with every authority the full range of civil servants, they can ensure that in time we will start to get quality people in the service. Of course, we're going to have to cut the number of civil service employees in order to get with this money that we have and which we can allocate to secure and much higher salaries for the people who work in the state service because I think the salaries are very, very low right now. And because of that, of course, those who are worth a lot of money and who know a lot and who are capable, they will decide on other jobs better paid in the private sector than the state administration. But I have to say that this is not only a problem for Croatia, it has this problem and many other developed countries that jobs in the state administration are much less paid than in the private sector. And I think it will be absolutely necessary to introduce something in the state administration that would be called either internal control or something, it also exists in the state administrations of developed countries and, of course, an ethical code for all those who work in the state administration. We have finally passed here the Law of Conflict of Interest which refers to those who work in the executive and legislative power. But also some kind of ethical code, some rules of conduct for civil servants, I think we should do the same. And in the end, the system of promotion of officials would have been combined by now, he is, going by a kind of automation and in one part he is free, however, I think that he weighs this one automatic advancement that depends on the number of years you work in the service which I think reduces individual responsibility and I think things should change a little bit there. Finally, I would like to say that this law can make some changes, it can make things easier for us at present in the functioning of the state administration, however, there is no effective and good state administration without full reform, so state administration. What my predecessor, Mr. Herman, said, as far as I know, experts are made in the past government, so, not people who are involved in politics, but experts who deal with public and state administration. So, these people have made a full public administration reform and I think that we should go, with reform, reforms are painful, they are difficult, they're not easy to implement but without reform we won't be able to move forward. Therefore, a law like this is not enough, it will need to go into full reform and I think it is the only way to lead to a small and efficient public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16724	Thank you. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. Dear Representative Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16725	Mr. Vice President, it is entirely incorrect that between 1990 and 2000 the state administration was accepted in a unilateral manner as the colleague pointed out. This is a completely incorrect allegation because it would mean that everyone in the state administration is members of that one party. This is incorrect, however, and it is also incorrect what the colleague said that by 1990 the public administration office as she said it worked well, it was, it was, it was incorrect, because it was exactly a one-party and similar system from which we clearly learned lessons. But unfortunately, this lesson did not draw power between 2000 and 2003 because, on the same principle, it continued to function by similarity.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16726	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16727	Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of MP Opacic. I quote, "If it hadn't been possible to reward high-quality officials in the past." That's not true! You were certainly rewarding officials and tenants but favored officers of your tenant, and those high-quality people were self-secure, smaller than the soft grain, and that's what I'm saying in the Croatian Parliament about what was going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16728	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Emil Tamljanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16729	Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague incorrectly stated that Mr. Palaric said in his opening statement: "We want to clean up the state administration.", he did not say that, he said "we want to clear the state administration of unprofessional, unprofessional and corrupt staff in the administration."which is important from the impact of what you said not to say. I must react because the purpose of his exposure was exactly what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16730	I thank the distinguished representative Opačić said half a sentence and didn't go on. That's it. The replica was reported by the distinguished representative Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16731	You see, fellow Opačić, you said that in the 1990s this Public Administration Office was abolished which was useful and necessary. But in the 1990s, it had to be abolished by the logic of the then political government. Because if it hadn't been abolished then it would have been quite clear through the work of this institution that civil servants and tenants are mass releases according to political criteria and national criteria. Only because other nationalities were expelled from the public service. Instead, colleagues of Opačić were introduced, so one party and one maternity principle were introduced. When you said, clean up the state administration that that's what the secretary of state said, then I think the secretary of state is absolutely right. And the proof is that one representative in this House refused to go on the official trip only because she would have been driven on that official trip by a driver who had driven before that by Minister Piculu. It's a relationship to civil servants and tenants today.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16732	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Opačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16733	So here I would answer this line when it comes to the office that I was talking about, which I've continued to argue that since 1990 it's been useful to the state administration and it's worked well, I can really have a hard time discussing here with someone's phobias compared to the former system. This was primarily about professional people who knew what to do in the state administration, and as far as these stories are concerned, how we rewarded people who were so politically similar over the past four years, I've been saying, unfortunately, that we've tied our hands to any rewarding of those people who have worked well, honestly and sacrificedly, and I'm sorry they haven't been able to be here in the past four years rewarded by these people with extra pay. Of course, those who grew strawberries during working hours do not think that they should receive a reward.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16734	Thank you. In part, you misused the record response to the replica because you spoke to the esteemed representative Šolić. Replica, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Antičević, the distinguished representative Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16735	... The infringement is the Rules of Procedure of Article 209 because Mrs Opačić has replicated what she is entitled to, and where she will, where she will watch it please allow her to... [[Speech is not enabled]] not yet regulated in the Rules of Procedure. [[I don't understand, speakers speak out loud]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16736	It's not about the violation of Article 209. The Rules of Procedure, because I didn't, I didn't say I was watching, but addressed the representatives of Šolić. It's not about the article, it's about Article 209. Replica, Honorable Representative Rebić What's he not entitled to? [[The intruders don't understand.]] For what, just
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16737	What do I mean,
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16738	Easy, easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16739	Why are they interrupting?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16740	Allow in, during your presentation the esteemed representative Niko Rebić raised the replica board and here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16741	And personally, I don't think there's a place of anxiety, I think Miss Opacic's debate was more than quality, but you see, I still don't think we can get to a good, fast and quality administration, and I don't think it's enough just by effective law, education and so on. In fact, what I want to say is that many countries in Europe and America are resting at the Institute of Recommendations, but of course as objective estimates, not as in our principles that this recommendation should be a relative to a relative or a friend or this, but an objective assessment of the employer is it? It is the only thing that follows a man throughout the working life but unfortunately neither does this Law on civil servants and tenants say anything about the recommendation of the employer and who has been following you for the whole working life. I would like to say here, therefore, that we have not used everything that one real law must rest on objectively, in order to improve and trust me in these countries of Western Europe and the United States that is just the basis of quality and good and state administration, but also in the economy of experts and so on. So in that sense, it was my replica, which is why you shouldn't have, I think your debate was pretty good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16742	Thank you. The reply to the replica is a distinguished representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16743	Well, I'm gonna, uh, I'm gonna pick up the line just so I can just add up a little bit more of what you said. Yes, I agree, and I don't agree that there are recommendations for some kind of kinship, but in some way, the official type of recommendation, but I also think it would be very good if we set out very clear criteria. So there are certain tests. There are certain mechanisms today that are very developed in the world so let's start a little bit and use these criteria and set very clear standards for admission to the state service in order to minimise this particular possibility or party pressure or cousin or any other one, and we finally have to get professional, smart, educated and capable people in the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16744	I would like to thank Mrs Opačić's distinguished representative, and I would like to ask that ladies of the Parliament be called so at the request of Mrs Maria Lugaric. The word has a distinguished representative, Joseph Leko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Representative of the Croatian Government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me get right to it. I want to defend the officials and the deputies of the state administration, I want to defend them. Why? So talk about officials and tenants and the law is a conversation about the Croatian government and the Croatian Parliament of colleagues and colleagues. The collective head of state administration is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The government of the Republic of Croatia is the most responsible for the state of government. If we don't look at it that way and if we don't talk about a system which, by my court, is a bigger brake for the competitiveness of the Croatian state than the judiciary, then we won't get a solution. And as the government looks at that system, some of my colleagues have already pointed out. Namely one of the Croatian governments worked on the system and worked on the strategy, but when the new government came, she immediately forgot it, and what does it offer us? He's offering us a law that doesn't really solve anything in the system. He's a classic of how individuals behave when they come to a new function. We go into reorganization and thus put the uncertainty of the subordinates. Just introduce new uncertainty and introduce dependence on the bosses. That's the range of this law. That's the range of this law. So let's not talk about individual cases, individual cases are responsible for ministers, and for the system as a whole of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the government is not offering a system I would suggest for the sake of the public and for a large number of honest work by civil servants and deputies to return, return to the strategy the Parliament was talking about here and pleaded. This is the only correct route for the state to be competitive in this regard. Please do as we believe that the Croatian State Administration can be effective when we spoke yesterday that our land books are not arranged or harmonised between the catastras, cadastrian books and land books. And most of all, they're not consistent with the real situation in life. Is this a volunteer approach, so a matter of will and a matter of building a system. How can we talk about the efficiency of the state administration when no one knows where it's worth the gentlemen's worth not urban plans and where a building permit can be obtained for a prescribed period of one month. How can we talk about the efficiency of the state administration as soon as the new government comes in and changes the system law on the formation of the ministry and administrative organisations? And one of the conditions for the state administration to be effective is the stability of the administrative organisation. No government in Croatia has come without eating either HDZ or coalition that has not changed the system of state administration. And a very important element is the stability of the state organization. Another important element is the stability of the law and compliance with the law. In the last term of the coalition government, it was passed if I did not cheat over 160 laws. Is without training training and without the stability of legislative activity talking about the efficiency of the state administration? He can't do colleges and colleagues. It's a far bigger problem than we're discussing today. If we add that the system does not create the principle of permanent education and education of officials and furniture, we cannot ask these people to master only 160 laws in one term, especially if they do not comply with each other. Or the reorganisation of the ministries was one of the causes. Let’s go further, what is the system of rewarding and stimulating workers in the auctioned administration, i.e. the furniture and civil servants. Well, it's my people's equalist, my equalizer. The conditional basis of the budgetary and employment coefficient. Well, there's no stimuli, no warrants. If we add that there is no judicial protection of workers in the state administration. The administrative dispute and management siud is not a court full of jurisdiction. We're not doing anything for the benefit of this state administration. We're just trying to get political points. It's a short effect in the state administration. What is the attractiveness of a job in the state administration? So no payer, responsible citizen, can affect the stability of the system, the stability of the law, nor can it even have pressure on the MPs. He can't cross over to the government and return directly to the MPs. We don't have a board of state administration. for the system and not for the individual. If that's how we look at it, then individual cases of difficult solving of irregularities in the state administration can't cloud the system as a whole. In my court, a system should be built where the responsible person, or minister, will have far greater powers and far greater responsibilities. And to offer workers in the state administration full legal protection of the system of stimulating and rewarding, continuous education, and laws not by political interest but by the permanent interest of building the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, so that the state administration itself in the system is far more efficient and the citizens with it and we in the Assembly are also doing our part of the work, because it is a conversation about us about our responsibility and not about individual cases in the state administration. Let's throw out political volunteering, Croatia's economy can't Croatian society and the Croatian state can be competitive because some party will or won't, but because the system is built or not. Because of this, at first I said that I would defend the current invisible position of civil servants and deputies because the instability of the legal system in the Republic of Croatia does not allow either the possibility of showing up or gaining a position on the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16746	Thank you. The word has an esteemed intercessor, Antom Perusko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16747	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to say that the state administration is a very important segment of society, the work of efficiency and courtesy of civil servants depends heavily on the fate of the society of the economy and of our citizens. A civil servant shall not be a bureaucrat and shall cover himself behind the screens of his desk, or of the counter, and may not be the one applying the law to seek ways for a foreigner to be the citizen who seeks before a person of the state administration the exercise of any of his rights, whether a representative of economic operators or any other individual, to find difficult circumstances for him to effectively not apply the law. The civil servant must seek to satisfy the request of the party as soon as possible without undue formalities, of course, the requirement established under the law. In my opinion, the state secretary must indeed be the party's attorney, who will help her to resolve the simplest, fastest way of resolving her right to the state administration body. By drawing experience from 25 years of practice in the aard and working in the bodies of a public urpah, the truth in the maritime administration, and by doing it mostly on professional affairs, I am deeply convinced and no one can convince me that the vast majority of civil servants are exactly what I tried to describe with these few sentences. And some negatants or examples cannot influence the use of some qualifications that have been tried in this assembly in this high house. I would also like to say that there are in a number of cases justifiable allegations that there are too many employed civil servants and subsistence officers, which I can responsibly say in and argue here and here to argue that this does not apply to the maritime administration. more than that, in all port captains, the most professional highly qualified jobs are unfulfilled, high knowledge is sought, maritime experience, for no salary and unsolved status. And here's an example, I'm seven months away from Port Captain Pula's office not filled in yet, when the question will be filled because my fellow sailors don't exactly push themselves into those jobs, because they know what's waiting for them there. They know there's an unsolved status waiting for them. And now based on some negative examples that I'm personally aware of and there are but they're uniquely based on some estimates I don't think is appropriate. In order to eliminate this ineffectiveness in certain cases, I believe that a number of assumptions need to be met. The civil servant must first of all create conditions to be efficient, insecure, objective, polite, operational and highly efficient and thus protect himself, protect the party, protect the state. Therefore, there is no need to talk about any cleaning women, and that is a difficult word to use in this House, people cannot be cleaned, which can be cleaned, things, not to use the worse word that is the subject of cleaning. And I don't think that's appropriate, and that's not the way to communicate higher than the honest, honest, honest, hardworking, working civil servants only if they don't really think about the political cleansing that I would do in part, even though I'm not inclined to think that way, but I'm afraid that might be the intensity of the State Secretary's statement, especially after Mrs. Solic's correcting the incorrect allegations, my colleagues, Ingrid Antičević, would have given me some indication that she could really be talking about political cleaning. In order for these negativitys that exist to be removed to me, I believe that a civil servant and a substitute need to create conditions, should be properly resolved by his status, given an appropriate position in society. Governments have changed, systems have changed, but let's be objective and realistic, civil servants and tenants have never really bloomed roses. The salaries in the state service are inadmissiblely low, acting unmotivatingly for employees of the state service. When they write down conditions that would look like a solution to the status of employees in the state administration at first sight, there were always ways to make it impossible to achieve it, it was manipulated by coefficients, basics or other conditions, and never to allow employees in the state service to come to the green branch. Because of all this, people in the public service have a lack of satisfaction with low wages and no motive for better work. By going to retirement, everyone comes to almost the lowest classes, all of this unresolved status does not motivate the existing, does not stimulate new young highly educated staff for employment in the state service. Yes, since I have critically referred to the work of civil servants and deputies primarily by expressing my view of the concept of civil servant and substitutes, and then I can rightly and specify these missing elements which I think should be created and make these assumptions that the state service would become even more effective than it is today. The proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants and tenants, which is true today in the first reading, will certainly not resolve the status of civil servants and tenants. I am convinced that reform of the state administration is necessary and necessary and that it is necessary to go into full reform. Some provisions, for example those in Articles 3 to 5 and 7 and 8 make sense to me and simplify the procedure for the reception of officials in a situation where the funds are secured and the job is vacant, so I should avoid this long and unnecessary procedure that has been so far. I also support the changes that have been proposed in the article that mitigates the conditions for schedules for counselors, senior advisers, and inspectors, thus enabling younger staff to advance more quickly in the ministry and not leave the public service. Very doubtful and in fact, the question that I view in this way is Articles 103, 104 and 105, which relate to some other articles give discretion to individuals to decide on the fates of people could negatively affect the status of civil servants and their legal position and security. As it comes to first reading, the bill can be referred to in a public debate and it is indeed necessary to have the position and the relevant border unions, the expert public and also to hold a debate with the social partners on the Economic and Social Council, as the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health in my opinion is well justified. Until the second reading, the proposal can and must be corrected with the aim of resolving the status of civil servants and subsistences who are not good and for the state administration to become even more effective than it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16748	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation of the distinguished representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16749	Here's what I'd like to correct would be the incorrect quote of a representative of Peru. Look, you've been quoted as saying that I'm in replication, and I've made it clear that there's gonna be some cleaning going on. Mr. Representative, personally, I am against it, against such an institute and do not deceive the Croatian public, I merely reminded myself of the fact that it was happening during the past term. And that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16750	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Emil Tomljanović.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16751	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government. There are three basic reasons why I find the proposed law in the following elements. First, unnecessarily complicated procedures for admission to the state service, i.e. the procedure that precedes the opening of invitations to the state service, which has proved absolutely in practice extremely expensive, long-term and unnecessaryly complicated. Secondly, it proved absolutely inconsistencies to the institution of the availability of officials and, in particular, in the context of the subsidiary application of the labour law, and the third inability or incompetence of younger staff, that, due to both low salaries and practically inability to schedule better paid jobs of advisers and senior advisers, therefore, to retain longer working time in the state administration. The proposed amendments are prescribed a simpler way of joining the state service. The Head of State Administration shall decide independently on the need for state service admissions within the framework of the vacancy provided for in the Internal Order Regulation and provided that the necessary budgetary resources are provided. However, the important news is that the Head of State Administration is no longer obliged to check with the Ministry of Finance in writing, and then at the Ministry of General Administration's office whether there are job vacancies, whether there are the necessary budgetary resources, and especially whether there are officials available to meet the job conditions. Therefore, the Head of State Administration himself determines all the necessary circumstances, therefore, whether there is a job opening provided for in the Internal Order Regulation, whether the necessary budgetary resources are provided but also, of course, what is very important, I bear and responsibility for that or for my actions. As already stated by the Institute, the availability of officials has not proved to be the same, especially given that the law significantly shortened the time limits of availability in relation to the previous law. Due to the short time-limits of availability, it is indeed very low prospects, i.e. the possibility for available officials to find a suitable place of work or the same during the lifetime of their availability, or to move or deploy to the workplace in the same or other state body. Accordingly, in this area to civil servants, i.e. subsidiaryly applying the Labour Act, and of course the provision of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Labour law, according to which the cancellation period does not run during pregnancy, use of maternity leave, leave for the care of a child with severe developmental disturbances, temporary inability to work, annual leave, paid leave, military service and in other cases justified by the presence of employees at work. The conclusion is so self-involved. That is to say, officials who are made available to the Government are in a more unfavourable position than employees of private employers in public services, and even of second-guests in the same state body which are not entirely covered by the provisions on availability, but are denied their work in accordance with the provisions already cited. Furthermore, in the context of preventing departure from the public service of young people and trained staff, justified conditions are proposed for the deployment to the jobs of advisers and senior advisers, as well as inspectors and senior inspectors in order to enable the basis of the law to deploy professional staff from less years of work in the profession to be assigned to appropriate but better paid jobs. Since it is the first reading of the proposed law, I would indeed suggest that a further detailed consideration be given to the solution by which civil servants and deputies would be included in the professional services of the Croatian Parliament, as well as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. I would indeed like to refer here to the opinions that this category of employees or civil servants and deputies do not put into the same position and status as all other civil servants and subsistences, and not only considering the criteria of implementation of the administrative procedure, we have a whole series of other criteria that we can, or should go for, to be simply categories of subsistence in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and in the Constitutional Court, let us say so conditionally separate or separate from this category, i.e. this category of civil servants and subsistence to which this law should apply. Therefore, not only for the conduct of the administrative procedure. It is indeed a matter of private institutions which are empowered by both the Constitution and the law and their rules of procedure to regulate the status and relations of those categories of employees. With this note, I fully support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal. And let me take a final look at something we've had the opportunity to hear in the debates of distinguished colleagues. I really don't think that this government doesn't lead or that there's no system of state administration on the contrary, this government has a elaborate system of state administration both on principle and on a specific level and on the so-called. merit principle, which is the principle of objectivity, expertise, professionalism, ability and incompetence of civil servants and substitutes. But let that, in six months, despite all these problems that the government has, I can't suddenly solve these accumulated problems in the state administration. I consider this bill to be one of the first steps in reforming the administration on these principles which will be addressed by this government during the term of office in the system, and therefore absolutely this law needs to be passed. And one more thing we had the opportunity to hear in the debates when respected deputies looked back on the past times, especially in the mid-90s or early 1990s, and the instructions were that there were too many or too many employees of civil servants and tenants in certain ministries. An example of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence has been cited in the context of some parameters and relations between Western European democracy or Scandinavian examples or principles. I'm going to say this for the public, although our people, unfortunately, know it very well, these two ministries in the administrative and every other sense, have carried the burden of war on their shoulders. I would have been the luckiest man in the world if we had been able to in the early 1990s and in these two then state ministries to have those oscillations or principles and to set up our state administration as in Scandinavia, as in the Western countries of Western Europe, but we had war, we had a defensive Homeland War, and bid on the numbers of 50, 100 thousand people at that time, I think it is not appropriate in the context of the debate that we are having, of course, that these segments of the state administration should be rationalised, but those too difficult years for the Croatian state and Croatian people, and thus for the state administration itself, are these two key ministries, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior on their shoulders successfully and I do not accept those connotations concerning the number of civil servants and tenants as one negative example at the beginning and mid-90s, as well as the unspeaked state in our own terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16752	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Damir Sesvečan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16753	Mr. President, Deputy Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I will say that I support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law on civil servants and tenants, as it simplifies the procedure of admission to the state service. It also makes it easier for young, educated and capable persons to employ and advance in the authorities of the state administration, and thus keeping them in the state service which, as we know, is not sufficiently paid, perspective and attractive for young professional staff. Such persons, when trained to perform certain tasks, show their abilities, leave the public service to private employers or other institutions offering better material conditions, perspective and careers for them. If we want a modern, efficient and professional state administration to be a service and at the service of citizens and entrepreneurship, then we can only achieve this by enabling young, capable and professional staff to employ and retain them in the state service. I support this law the proposed abolition of the institution at the disposal of officials, because the current provisions of the Law set out in the period of notice laid down by the Labour Act, as a general law governing working relations in the Republic of Croatia, are laid down. In certain circumstances, civil servants who are made available are in a more unfavourable position than private employers’ employees, and even from second-guests in the same state body of the state administration, who are not subject to the provisions on making available, but are directly subject to the provisions of the Labour Act. I find it acceptable to cut the deadlines for objecting to a state service admission solution from 15 to 8 days to allow the chosen person to start work as soon as possible. This would not endanger the protection of the rights of others declared in the competition because I keep the eight-day deadline for the submission of the legal project adequate and sufficient. Furthermore, if it is intended to simplify and speed up the procedure of admission to the State Service which is unequivocally derived from this law, then it is illogical for me to propose a longer period of time for the selection between candidates registered for the competition from 60 to 90 days from the date of the date of the application. I suggest that this deadline remain for 60 days, so maybe it should be shortened, for example, to 45 days from the date on which the application is due. In the context of this, I certainly support the proposal that the traineeship for people who are being admitted to the state service without a job job in the profession with a particular education be reduced as proposed, therefore for the trainees trained to perform the first type of calling work from 16 to 12 months, for the trainees of the second type of calling from 14 to 8 months and for the trainees of 3 types of calling from 12 to 6 months. I believe that this reduced duration of the traineeship is quite enough for the trainee to be able, through practical work and learning according to the established training programme, to perform the tasks of a particular profession or service on his own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16754	Dear representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16755	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable gentlemen of the House of Representatives! There is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and law-holders governing status and material issues and the rights and responsibilities of thousands of civil servants who conduct or public service tasks at all levels of all three branches of government and from the most important state bodies of each of these branches of government to units of regional regional governmental self-government as well as state bodies and other bodies established for the exercise of public service in accordance with their jurisdiction established by the Constitution, law, regulation or rules of procedure adopted under the Constitution and law. In addition, or according to different administrative areas, they apply in this field of regulation and general rules on labour, collective agreements as well as different other laws. It is all a normative infrastructure from which only indirectly, based on a solution from certain provisions and spirit and the intensities of a legal or sublegal act, we can read what state administration we want, and here we all agree that we want a smaller, more efficient, more educational writing, more responsible, more professional but also better paid and technically equipped state administration that will serve citizens as well as institutions in which the state service behaves, which is very important. This is particularly important at the time of the approximation of the Republic of Croatia to European integration, which inevitably brings with it the implementation of a different standard and criteria of professionality in all areas of work, as well as in this, public service and civil servants. And these are the criteria by which we should assess the solutions to the provisions of the applicable 2001 law as well as the proposed amendments and additions to the laws that are before us. I believe that this proposal is only one segment of intervention in this area, which should be applied in a complementary manner, together with a reform of education and a significant material improvement in the status of civil servants and substitutes, and thus create assumptions that the state service is not only considered safe but also attractive and well-paid work, in order to allow the state service to make the highest quality officials adequate progress depending on the expertise, knowledge and results of work without excessive bureaucratic obstacles. This would stop the trend of negative selection towards which young people are the state service only by the time station towards better paid and by various grounds more attractive places in economic or other structures. Under such conditions, the issue of accountability and application of pre-mentioned European criteria in the performance of the state service can be maximised. What are the solutions and novelties of the proposed changes in this particular sense? Simplification is proposed with certain conditions of admission to the state service, with increased responsibility of the head for a decision on the need to receive the state service. Furthermore, with the removal of the state officials' facilities after changes in the structure of the state bodies, a reduction or mitigation of the working time conditions is envisaged and a schedule for certain high-level professional training posts. I believe that these solutions should be strongly supported because they are on the line at least as part of creating assumptions for the achievement of the above mentioned objectives in the organisation, structure and way of working of the state administration and removing part of the irrational solution from the applicable 2001 law, which in its other solutions as well as those of the accompanying sublegal acts has brought many injustices and degradations of civil servants and subsistences in a status and material sense. Furthermore, a more detailed consideration should be given to the exemption from the application of individual solutions provided for in the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act during the conduct of the presumption procedure before the Official Court in order to achieve an appropriate measure of protection, prose and status of officials during the procedure and to further justify changes in terms of conditions, years of life and peace standing at the end of the state service by force of the law. I would also refer to the position of the Professional Services of the Croatian Parliament and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia which does not open this bill, but in future solutions would certainly need to take account of the fact that it is not a classical state administration as part of the Executive Authority, so there remains a questionable need for specific legal regulation of the status of these services, specific powers and responsibilities and in light of the consistent application of the principle of trilogy of government. And I'd like to conclude. I support the proposed changes as a quality step in this area but in anticipation of a reasonable period of time, a completely new Law on civil servants and tenants who would replace existing more than questionable qualities and effects and create assumptions for a comprehensive reform of the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16756	Thank you. Replicated representative Pero Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16757	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with my colleague's view that Croatian citizens should have a modern, effective state administration that must be of no use to themselves but must be the service of citizens but unfortunately these solutions contained and this bill does not go any further to establish such a state administration. However, this draft law merely attempts to make it possible for some new people to be employed, to get rid of people who exist and it contributes nothing to the creation of a state administration to the extent that if such a administration were to be then many proceedings would be conducted under official duty and then officials would have to do nothing to force a citizen who pays a tax on his law, means an administrative fee that he must then also draw up a housekeeper, a copy of the queen born and all other data to which the official records are being kept. So we didn't even get that part to go and it's a modern and modern state administration in a way that it works for what it's paid for, because taxpayers pay civil servants and tenants. And yet that has not yet been achieved. So this is neither a step nor nothing, this is an attempt to solve something but in the way that I tried it on behalf of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16758	Reply to the replica of the respected representative Bozica Šolić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16759	Well, here, I'll briefly replicate Mr. Representative, so these are, so it's said that these are one of the three initial measures to enter for a full reform of the state administration. Therefore, all that is before us today will be improved and given advanced in the reform of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16760	Dear Representative Zlatko Kramarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16761	Honored Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, when you listen to a part of these exhibitions, then you actually get the impression where we are very easy and not to say it lightly, thinking that the very fact that we are not forming something is in itself a good thing and that we are actually avoiding any negative or possible negative implications of any reform and so on state administration reform. And wise people from me have already said that what every time it moves into reform that its success is uncertain and what's only certain is certain, it's costs. Although this bill states that there is no cost for such a reform. I'm afraid, however, that this reform is going to cost a lot. We can say that this reform is necessary for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, but there is also a whole series of concerns. For example, you can read another text from the 98th year written by European Union experts Mr. Larson and Allen who say that the net benefit of membership in the European Union is likely to fall with any further wave of enlargement since... and the Union's fiscal capacity of 20 Member States shall be less than the capacity of the current European Union than 15 members. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that should be in mind. With this more now, the European Union has 25 members, and we fear it is very much, we do not have several excessive analyses that show that these things will move in due course. Why is predicting the development of the administration a risky catch? For two simple reasons. The first administration is dependent on its narrow political and wider economic and social environment and both environments, especially in small countries, change rapidly and radically, and sometimes these reforms are not and cannot be predicted. Some colleagues here before me have already said that it is true that after each election, you actually have all the time of uncertainty, instability, because most people don't really know what's going to happen to them, and it's very common knowledge that people are afraid of such uncertainty and that it has a significant impact on their responsibility and business engagement. On the other hand, it should also be counted on one elemental fact that management is a closed system whose... resists changing its own action and structure and which is, therefore, to some extent conservative in terms of methods and tries to continue to work in the present way. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I can say the same from my own experience what actually these last 10 years, 15 years meant, to allow people to say, that paper is replaced by electronics, as an elemental means of communication. And it's not, and that should also be taken into account, and I think that in this bill there are precisely such elements, such details actually lagging behind. Because if you do, the man in the administration works 30, 40 years, but the paradigm changes these reforms happen faster. And I think that neither this proposal nor a lot of proposals before that on these, just on these particulars, do they count on the look of a little thing at all, how conservative management is, how closed the system is, and how people say, how afraid people are of these very changes. And on the other hand, that this political influence and already certain studies conducted by the experts that the European Union has placed on the disposition of the Republic of Croatia have shown them a whole series of elements that our administration has not met. So, first of all, I also find myself in this bill to be a finding and an expert that the number of employees in some authorities of the state administration is large while in others it is insufficient. I have yet to see any analysis that really says in which authorities of the state administration the number of officials is too large and in which it is too small. So it doesn't have this one either, and it doesn't have this bill either. Furthermore, it has been said that many officials who perform their functions in the management of services and in supervision do not have the necessary qualifications or knowledge, or capacity. Especially when it comes to local self-government. We have mentioned here several times that the number of units of local self-government in the past 10 years has increased fivefold. Now it's a big deal, is it a question of whether that number has grown from units of local self-government and followed by a number of experts who can sort of service the work, the operation of those units of local self-government? I'm afraid not. And we have already said several times that there is actually nothing that we can do in a partial way but that we should do in this territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia if nothing else is considered and that it is actually necessary that certain changes are also necessary. Because between the administrative capacity and the administrative financial independence of local units on the one hand, there is one major dissrepancy between local policy and local administrations with citizens on the other. Furthermore, there is a lack of pay system, wages in the administration are low, there is no single reward system, the receipts are not related to the results of work but are mainly based on school certificates, position and length of service. So that's the same mechanical approach that then gives exactly the same results. Furthermore, the group of experts noted that there was a phenomenon of patronage and nepotism in setting up and promoting public officials. Furthermore, there is too high a degree of centralised decision-making and availability of resources, which is where the costs of management and slowness of services and services to citizens are actually increased. I'd just actually ask you if anyone was ever actually interested in how there's a coordination between the state administration and the administration at local level. And whether the equal availability of public service services and the legitimacy of decisions is guaranteed by respecting certain time limits. Is it possible for all parties to be informed, to plead, to provide them with the possibility of food and medicines and other means and these are all the Porblems which this law simply elegantly skips, simply under this stamp that we are actually going into the ref that is necessary and, although I say, I must admit that the discourse that Mr Palaric in the opening statement gave that it actually causes a small dam and fear at least when this is really said to be cleaned up, that such a depressing discourse is something that we should actually avoid in one normal democratic communication. Then, what is very important and what is also elegantly trying to eskiate, and that is the fact that our administrative system is lagging behind in information and, among other things, because we are ours, that our administrative system is lagging behind in information and, among other things, because we are constantly reducing the budget resources that should be provided for this purpose. It will be very interesting to watch the budget rebalancing and see if, as provided for for information, I would ask very much for an answer because I read somewhere that there is still no record of the number of officials in the defense and home affairs portfolios. Because I'm afraid that first of all if we want to have one excess access that we should determine the state of data and records on each... the area, and only then propose measures to correct. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If that's really said in principle, it's said in principle, in principle then, again in this, I don't see any actual state of affairs of the law, or the established state of the data, and not just, it's about the needs of something to change. I have to admit it's like this at least, my hand, a little strange, strange and in a way, and that's why I'm not so prone to raise my hand and my voice to give this, this reform. The seventh observation also states that there is no effective management and coordination at the level of the central administration. It lacks specific administrative units or several of them, which would be in charge of rationalising the service system as well as of administrative reform and improvement tasks at all. And right now, it's who's supposed to be carrying out the reform. That's what this bill owes us. What are the people who, which is the body, is there one, one core of a group that, in a short short, short time that is obviously coming, would be able to execute, to carry out these necessary, necessary reforms, and exactly and clearly these weaknesses would have been seen in many areas, but to simply say other than these principles that we are facing, we are actually only facing good wishes but I'm afraid that they are not followed and adequate, adequate efforts. That's it. ... Too bad I can't speak on behalf of the club... [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] It felt that way. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as usual.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16762	Five minutes of debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, the esteemed representative of Alenka Košisa Chichin-shain.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16763	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable promoters, distinguished MPs and MPs! Compared to what I put out in front of the HNS Club this morning in my 15-minute debate, I would repeat and underline once again perhaps some important elements. It certainly seems to me that the premature adoption of such a law when we are already in, rather mentioned here in the debate that in 2003, that, that, that a working group formed by the representatives and the Ministry of Justice and all other ministries, consisting of experts from the Faculty of Law, therefore completely independent people, politically independent people and from consultants from the European Commission with the aim and intent to make such a single proposal and within the framework of the cards of the programme, were allocated significant funds in millions of EUR to obtain one whole, one full reform of the state administration or the Law on civil servants and tenants. As one of the main settings of this is, and the fundamental starting point of this proposal within the cards of the project is just the existence of a central office to lead a policy of staffing in the state service, to deal with human resources, to take care of training, to train civil servants, to advance them, to define, to coordinate employment in the state service and to similar things. And unfortunately, I also think that maybe it's an unfortunate formulation that appears through the text in the form of cleaning, ventilation, blowing...
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16764	I'd like the Honorable representative of Kramaric to... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16765	Don't go on. The Working Group proposes methods of testing and checking. As we have said today, such methods are known in all large companies and large businesses today are very much trying to have special teams dealing with “had hunting” so headhunters in some way. So they're looking for the best personnel. I also think that the state administration should take a similar example of trying to get the best personnel to work right in the state administration. And that should be one of the objectives of just one central office that would deal with the way in which you choose the most qualified people. So not to call in competitions, if necessary, but to have a continuous open competition so that people who want to do this job can report to one place and, as such, best quality be referred to one of the state administration bodies. As an even more concrete proposal that would lead to this, in this presentation an adequate reward for those who achieve the above average results of the work, to abolish the assessment institute as the main measure of the success of the civil servant. We agree. This is one of the basic starting points for obtaining quality staff in the state service or rewarding successful and punishing failures. This is a basic criterion for progress in the state service, but also for any other service outside the country. THE way in which success will be evaluated and the net average commitment to work is not seen. Who, and in what way, will evaluate success at work if we put an end to so far’s assessment that was really bad? Again, the minister, who needs the resources for the best civil servants, how much funds are needed for these purposes? I haven't seen those answers in the proposed provisions. There are no clear answers in Article 11 of the amendment on temporary matters in the civil service and incomes for a certain period of time, while there is a need for temporary work in the public service. We're wondering who's making the decision that the scope of the business has increased? If this is the Head of the Authority of the State Administration or Head of Resort Service, then provisions on its responsibility should be developed. It should also be added to a provision that says that the means are necessary for these purposes. Reduce the number of years needed to advance from the position of advisor to the position of senior advisor and that is acceptable. Nothing new, though. Because that's what the former government suggested based on experience. However, in the introduction of the proposal, the amended law states that the proposed amendments and additions will not require additional resources in the budget. But they'll demand it. Because a large number of civil servants on the waiting list to move to the higher pay grade or by improving from the post of advisor to the higher advisor growth and coefficients or wages. And that requires certain additional resources in the budget. It would be useful to know how much, how much of the funds are involved, or how much of the resources are planned to release the number of current employees, so that the funds will be sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16766	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Florian Boras.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16767	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary and Deputy! Well, here's what I'm going to use the possibility and the right of business to say a few words, a few more words about this law, in an additional five minutes on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club. It is clear that I will repeat that the Croatian Democratic Community supports the adoption of this Act, or amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants and tenants. But also even louder and even more prominently, we support the government's announcement that even this year, a whole, brand-new Law on civil servants and tenants will be offered to this House. I hope that all the legal solutions under this law will be in line with the Croatian state's aspirations to get a professional and wise efficient and relatively small state administration. And finally, with that being our wish, it will be the imperative of the future European Union community that we will belong to and I am pleased that these issues will be dealt with in one right way. Why is this such an important question? We're all familiar with the state's government's mirror. In the highly developed democratic European countries, for example, it is rare for a citizen or a small number of citizens to know and who his president is. Much of it doesn't even know who the Prime Minister is, but everyone in this town knows exactly where their community is, where all their rights can come true. From acts of birth to death. So I'm not going to say 99%, but 99% or almost all of their citizens' rights usually come true from the state administration. Unfortunately, there's only one thing you can solve if someone in the government or the Parliament or somewhere else you know, and even by the act of the wedding, you have to have a relationship to get to some sort of order there when you were planning to do it. You have to really invest in both knowledge and connections and so on, so that's the case at birth, and even at death, we're not talking about building permits not to talk about all the other administrative procedures and so on. But what I want to say here, and to point out fascinatingly, is that members of the former government know this together very well, and I think they've talked about it a few times. But the fascination is also the difference between the declared and real because, as Mrs. Soic has pointed out here several times, let us leave our yard in our professional service at the Parliament's service to dozens of illegal solutions, regarding wages, regarding the distribution of non-compliance with conditions and so on. The ministry, the inspection, the administrative supervision, nothing has changed much. And I support the government not only to pass a quality regulation but to be declared and truly identical and not to have one written and the other what is in reality and in this sense the existing administration should by no means be cemented, it should make a whole new administration, set up on one modern principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16768	Thank you. State Secretary Antun Palaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16769	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it is obvious that this extensive debate has also shown the concerns of Croatian state-level officials and needs to be corrected by a series of measures and activities. I must say that this government has already taken the first steps, which is primarily the establishment of a central state administration office. Ensuring space for the work of the Centre for the Education of Civil Servants, and I announce that before the summer the Government will bring in a strategy for the education and education of civil servants and will begin the autumn education centre as an organisational unit of this central office with intensive work to raise professional qualifications of civil servants. However, this office will carry operationally and technically and participate in the creation of reform, and this law certainly is not the reform we are announcing, but in this reforning, we will take care of the opinion of the National Competition Council, the main legal state committee in line with the EU, which makes government officials and independent experts. We will take care of the opinion of the government's commission on the adjustment of the state administration, which is an inter-resorial government commission with a representative of this office. We will also take care of the opinion of the World Bank's expert in the section regarding civil servants paying according to the results of the work. Which will also be an integral part of the reform, and we will also take care of the opinion of the European Council of Europe experts, who, together with this central state office, are working to decentralise state-run business havens and transfer jobs to local self-government units. However, in the debate, several times the thesis that there is a perfect material that this government will not release into the process. This is the material that was made within the CARDS in 2001 that is not suitable for discussion in this House. If he had already been respected, then the minister would have sent him to the procedure. Of course we do not underestimate and reject what was done, but on this material as part of the reform of the state administration still needs to work together with foreign experts with domestic experts and it will appear as part of the package. It's a law on state service that's a strategy, it's a strategy of education, and so on. So, it's not exactly the theory that the material that the perfect material exists, the material exists, it's been working on, but it still needs to be done. And we, as part of CARDSA 2003, will also develop measures concerning the normative creation of reform and then its implementation. However, the purpose of this law is that before adopting such complete solutions, and in the transitional period until such a solution is implemented, because, according to experts, it will take two years to establish a new system, so that this law allows for the arrival of young competent educational people who will carry the reform of the whole state and thus the reform of the state administration. We thank all who have supported the adoption of this law, we will carefully read the phonogram, we have worked on notes, and for the second reading we will prepare an even better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16770	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and tenants, first reading, P.Z. No. 114 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants and tenants is adopted and all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find that with 77 votes in favour, 1 against and 8 abstentions, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16773	The very respected Mr. President, gentlemen of the U.S., the first ladies and gentlemen, the first organ transfer was carried out almost a century ago in our near Vienna. The real swing of the transplant that began sometime after the 50th odinas also experienced the first kidney transplant in our Croatia in 1971, in Rijeka. Since the 1980s, it has worked more extensively on organ transplant programmes, to make it practically the standard of our medicine, both in the world and in Croatia. The organ transplant is an area that is more than any other based on humanity and altruism and seeks a firm foothold in general ethics and medical dontology and the availability of this treatment method is limited by the number of available organs. The lack of transplant authorities is the problem that is present in all countries and those that have reached the expert, organisational, technical and technological standards of highly developed countries. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all segments that are important for the transplant programme are further developed and are primarily trusted and supported by the public, the awareness of health professionals, the importance and purpose of the programme and their professional education, and a good organisation of the health system that would unite the organ collection and transplantation system, and ensure the fair distribution of collected organs and tissues to those to whom it is... There is nothing higher in human life than if you can donate your own organs to help extend your neighbor’s life. Therefore, a draft bill on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment has also been drawn up. We have before us a law that represents the harmonisation of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application, biology and medicine and the Additional Protocol to the Convention in connection with the transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin. The law aims to establish clear criteria of medical practice in the field of transplant medicine and to include the Republic of Croatia in the order of the European countries which have regulated the level of medical science in this area legally. It is the basic postulate of this Act that any procedure relating to the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body can be carried out only if this is medically justified or if this is the most favourable treatment method, the procedure itself must be carried out in accordance with the relevant high professional obligations and standards. The basic law laid down in this Act is that parts of the body should be taken to assign the recipient to the national waiting lists in accordance with transparent, transparent, objective and generally accepted medical criteria. The law is conceptually divided into parts containing specific provisions relating to recipients, related to taking part of the body from the living donor, taking part of the body from the deceased and related to the composition of the taking and transplanting parts of the human body. The transplant may be performed only if the recipient has given written consent. For a recipient who is not able to reason or is incompetent or underage, consent is given by his spouse, parent, adult child, adult brother or sister, guardian or legal representative of the recipient. After taking and transplanting organs to live donors and recipients, monitoring their health status shall be ensured. The body or tissue of the living donor may be taken exclusively for the purpose of treating the recipient unless there is an appropriate organ or tissue of the deceased person and there is no other approximately equal treatment method. Taking the organ from a living donor for the purpose of transplanting the recipient shall be decided by the ethical pneumonia of the health institution in which the transplantation is to be carried out. Prior to taking organs or tissues, appropriate medical tests and procedures must be carried out to assess and reduce both physical and mental risks to donor health. The body or tissue will not be taken if there is a serious risk to the life or health of the donor. Parts of the body should only be taken by a person over the age of 18, provided that he is able to reason. Taking parts of the body from a living donor is only allowed if the donor has given consent in writing for the operation and where the risk to its health is to medical criteria within the limits of the acceptable. The consent of the organ or tissue donor must apply only to the intended procedure, consent shall be given in writing and must be an expression of the free will of the donor based on appropriate information on the nature, purpose and course of the probabilities of its performance and the usual risks. It is not permitted to take organs or tissues from a person who is unable to give consent exceptionally may be authorised to take regenerative tissue of a person who is unable to give consent under legally prescribed conditions. The parts of the body from the deceased may be taken for transplantation to another person after death has been determined with certainty according to medical criteria and regulations. The parts of the dead person’s body may be taken for transplant purposes only if the donor has not objected in writing. According to the legislative proposal for the collection, transplantation and storage of parts of human bodies, only that health care institution which has been granted the approval of the Minister of Health in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall comply with the conditions for the taking, transplantation or storage of parts of the human body in respect of space, professional workers and medical technical equipment prescribed by the Minister responsible for health. Taking parts of the body from living donors for transplant purposes may only be carried out by a health institution that will perform the transplantation of that part of the body. The legislative proposal particularly regulates the work of the ministry for keeping a list of donors and the waiting list of recipients of the reference centre to be designated by the minister. Gentlemen, it is a quality law that really puts us at the top of the harmonised laws of the European Community of the people that we seek to enter as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16774	Thank you. Does the rapporteur want any of the working bodies who discussed this bill? Yeah. Dear Representative Marko Turic, president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16775	Dear Mr. President, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. The Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health at the 10th session of the Committee held on 6 July 2004 discussed this proposal for a law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for treatment purposes. The Committee discussed the draft law as a home working body in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The opening argument was tabled by the applicant's representative. All the participants in the debate initially assessed that the draft law is good, professional and professional, in line with accepted international conventions and regulations of the European Union and that it adequately regulates ethical, legal, professional medical relations in organ transplantation and transplantation. The provisions of this Bill also provide for legal certainty for persons seeking such medical assistance as well as for those providing it. In a broad discussion, the Committee members pointed out that taking and transplanting organs, tissues and cells of the human body for the purpose of treatment is today a generally accepted medically and economically justified method for the treatment of a whole series of chronic diseases. The development of medical sciences opens up the possibility of an increasing number of persons to this type of treatment, and it is necessary to define precisely the interactions of all participants in order to avoid possible abuses or violations of the rights of persons participating in this important procedure. It is evident from the attached indicators that in the Republic of Croatia it has recently become a standard of our medicine, both in the world and in Croatia. The organ transplant is an area that is more than any other based on humanity and altruism and seeks a firm foothold in general ethics and medical dontology and the availability of this treatment method is limited by the number of available organs. The lack of transplant authorities is the problem that is present in all countries and those that have reached the expert, organisational, technical and technological standards of highly developed countries. It is therefore necessary to ensure that all segments that are important for the transplant programme are further developed and are primarily trusted and supported by the public, the awareness of health professionals, the importance and purpose of the programme and their professional education, and a good organisation of the health system that would unite the organ collection and transplantation system, and ensure the fair distribution of collected organs and tissues to those to whom it is... There is nothing higher in human life than if you can donate your own organs to help extend your neighbor’s life. Therefore, a draft bill on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment has also been drawn up. We have before us a law that represents the harmonisation of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Dignity of Human Beings as regards the application, biology and medicine and the Additional Protocol to the Convention in connection with the transplantation of organs and tissues of human origin. The law aims to establish clear criteria of medical practice in the field of transplant medicine and to include the Republic of Croatia in the order of the European countries which have regulated the level of medical science in this area legally. It is the basic postulate of this Act that any procedure relating to the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body can be carried out only if this is medically justified or if this is the most favourable treatment method, the procedure itself must be carried out in accordance with the relevant high professional obligations and standards. The basic law laid down in this Act is that parts of the body should be taken to assign the recipient to the national waiting lists in accordance with transparent, transparent, objective and generally accepted medical criteria. The law is conceptually divided into parts containing specific provisions relating to recipients, related to taking part of the body from the living donor, taking part of the body from the deceased and related to the composition of the taking and transplanting parts of the human body. The transplant may be performed only if the recipient has given written consent. For a recipient who is not able to reason or is incompetent or underage, consent is given by his spouse, parent, adult child, adult brother or sister, guardian or legal representative of the recipient. After taking and transplanting organs to live donors and recipients, monitoring their health status shall be ensured. The body or tissue of the living donor may be taken exclusively for the purpose of treating the recipient unless there is an appropriate organ or tissue of the deceased person and there is no other approximately equal treatment method. Taking the organ from a living donor for the purpose of transplanting the recipient shall be decided by the ethical pneumonia of the health institution in which the transplantation is to be carried out. Prior to taking organs or tissues, appropriate medical tests and procedures must be carried out to assess and reduce both physical and mental risks to donor health. The body or tissue will not be taken if there is a serious risk to the life or health of the donor. Parts of the body should only be taken by a person over the age of 18, provided that he is able to reason. Taking parts of the body from a living donor is only allowed if the donor has given consent in writing for the operation and where the risk to its health is to medical criteria within the limits of the acceptable. The consent of the organ or tissue donor must apply only to the intended procedure, consent shall be given in writing and must be an expression of the free will of the donor based on appropriate information on the nature, purpose and course of the probabilities of its performance and the usual risks. It is not permitted to take organs or tissues from a person who is unable to give consent exceptionally may be authorised to take regenerative tissue of a person who is unable to give consent under legally prescribed conditions. The parts of the body from the deceased may be taken for transplantation to another person after death has been determined with certainty according to medical criteria and regulations. The parts of the dead person’s body may be taken for transplant purposes only if the donor has not objected in writing. According to the legislative proposal for the collection, transplantation and storage of parts of human bodies, only that health care institution which has been granted the approval of the Minister of Health in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall comply with the conditions for the taking, transplantation or storage of parts of the human body in respect of space, professional workers and medical technical equipment prescribed by the Minister responsible for health. Taking parts of the body from living donors for transplant purposes may only be carried out by a health institution that will perform the transplantation of that part of the body. The legislative proposal particularly regulates the work of the ministry for keeping a list of donors and the waiting list of recipients of the reference centre to be designated by the minister. Gentlemen, it is a quality law that really puts us at the top of the harmonised laws of the European Community of the people that we seek to enter as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16776	Thank you very much. Do the rapporteurs want any other committees? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community, Honored Representative Drago Prgomet.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16777	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's usually said that the number of organs collected is in... the person for the transplant and the civilizational degree of a country and their development of that society. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] Someone would really ask, and where are we? Despite the good indicators expressed by the secretary of state that over the past years there has been a significant increase in both organ transplants and transplants, unfortunately, we are just approaching some kind of European spring, so that we are almost four times worse in the number of transplanted organs than Spain today, which is at the top of the European list. And what is even more devastating is that we have been in the last place for years when it comes to the countries of the European Union. There is only Greece behind us, which remains to be comforted that this year's European football champion, after all. Despite the fact that this medical procedure has long been accepted, stalking and we can freely call it a regular medical procedure, transplanting parts of the body always causes certain moral ethical doubts, causing exceptional professional and scientific interest, so just for the sake of information, let me say that 6 Nobel Prizes have been awarded so far in relation to the transplant procedures and the transplant process. So I think it is also the order to mention that it is the first, that the first transplant in Croatia was made in 1971 and thus mentioned by the professor... from Rijeka who successfully and did so. When we talk about this law, therefore, we are not only talking about one legislation aimed at harmonising a problem with European laws, but what is far more important, we are talking about today a thousand and 500 people waiting for organ or tissue transplants in Croatia. Unfortunately, nearly half of them have been waiting for more than 5 years, and according to world standards, or the mill realistically to expect nearly a third of these people to never welcome organ transplants that will save their lives, or give them a normal life. The organ transplant is an absolute national health interest and it is really unnecessary to talk about life before and after organ transplants. It is felt from every word, especially in patients with kidney transplants, heart transplants, so the organs. However, it is not irrelevant to mention that the transplant procedure is economically well justified, significantly cheaper than the treatment process for those who expect the organ, so for comparison, one haemodialysis costs a health system of about 120 thousand kuna and a transplant of 60 thousand kuna. Here I would like to express the need to animate two important processes in the process of further development, the process of transplanting, which is something called the role of the health system and roles, or activities outside the health system. I will mention that the health system, or legislation in these areas, started in 1980, will only mention what was said here. The 99th resolution on encouraging organ transplants in the Republic of Croatia was initiated by the then parliamentary representative Mrs Vera Stanic-Pivcevic, then the conclusion of the 45th session of the 2002 Health Committee, etc. The regulation of the way the authorities taken from the deceased is certainly part of the more relevant part of the legal regulation of this procedure. This bill comes from a model of assumed consent with the possibility of an active exclusion, the model that is best accepted in the European public, and this way respects the individual right to own decision. Countries with such a legal model as Belgium and Austria have reached a far higher rate of giving than others who do not have such a model as Denmark, Great Britain, the Netherlands. The so-called activities outside the health system are absolutely essential to the role of public change. The donation of organs and transplants are certainly the only field of medical science and practices that require the participation of a society for full development. In this respect, neither health care professionals nor economic or scientific progress can, without public support, increase the number of bodies collected for themselves. The transplant process begins and ends always in public, citizens are mobile forces and fundamental benefactors. By the way, where there is no democracy, there is no development of this system of treatment so that no totalitarian country with a totalitarian regime anywhere in the world has ever developed an effective system with a high degree of organ giving. Here I would like to highlight the prominent public figures of which many in Croatia have joined in the programme of encouraging the giving of former prime ministers, ministers, current ministers certainly among the world's most famous persons are Spanish queen Sofia through actress Sofia Loren, Michael Jordan, Edward Kennedy, etc. I stress here the need for active participation of those persons, and here I especially want to highlight the legislative authorities because we all belong to them, so the parliamentary representative on the one hand and on the other hand the doctor because one large number of people and I belong to that company myself. In particular, the message of a doctor who would certainly send a very clear message by making a decision about organ donation. I work at the hospital and I want to donate my organs when I don't need them anymore. A health care professional’s attitude would certainly help to break fear or dilemma in the death of the brain, or infuriated fear that their living organs would be taken away. Finally, I would also like to emphasise the impact of the media that have done a great job in obtaining the public and creating trust in the health system when it comes to organ and tissue transplants, as well as the adoption of many valuable examples of life-preserving and the health of difficult patients, and thus help with a major shift in organ donation and collection. In the end, I will look back at several of the controversys that exist in the public, so for ordinary people, and also for people who are less expected to do so, and I have already mentioned two groups in my previous presentation and some of these controversys, the law provides very clear and good answers. First, it is often the view that rich and famous people are placed at the top of the waiting list anyway. The lists are based on medical criteria. They need to be public. The principle of justice requires that the award criteria of the donated bodies must not be discriminatory at all. based on age, gender, race, religion or utilarist i.e. based on work ability, social benefits and others. Immunological and clinical facts are the only criteria that must be applied and the lists must be made available to the public, which is also regulated in Articles 4 and 31 of this Law, by calling on the Ministry to form a reference centre for the collection and transplantation of the human body for the purpose of treatment as soon as possible. The second controversy, if there's an accident and the hospital knows that I want to donate organs, will they try to save my life? It should be said very clearly, the teams that are treating and the transplant teams are completely separated in order to avoid abuse, transfer of interest over truth and demand is also the practice that there are different teams and here is regulated Article 21 of the Law. The organ donation is insulting my body. The donor body shall be removed by surgical procedure according to the principles of each other’s operations, which is regulated here in Articles 2 and 3. And the two controversys that are not mentioned in this law are not and should not be and are very common as topics of discussion which are public, which is less public and that is why to give the organs when transplants are inconsistencies. It's a complete lie. The three-year survival of heart transplants is over 70%, and there are also outstanding examples of excellent functioning and good health of people after complex transplants and even an example of where a young man with a transplanted heart became a professional football league player. And finally, one of the prejudices why my religion does not support organ donation, with this, we considered it in the Croatian Democratic Community Club particularly necessary to point out and it is related to one fact that even in Croatia, more than 80% of people have made themselves known on the last list that they believe that only 50% of people know what their religion is about organ transplants. The attitude of religion is more than positive. According to this medical intervention, there is hardly any religion that does not support transplantation, even religious movements that otherwise prohibit blood transfusions allow organ transplants. The Catholic Church’s position on this is very clear and the words of Pope John Paul II are content. how it is necessary to encourage organ transplants from the brain dead to help preserve the life of incurable patients and, as it says, quote "to give without compensation part of your own body for the health and well-being of another person or anything that can serve living sins to bury". In conclusion, supporting the adoption of this law, the Croatian Democratic Community Club also supports the objectives, measures, activities of the Ministry of Health to implement the programme of increasing the number of transplants, organs and tissues in the Republic of Croatia, which involve technical and material support, education on financial support in the personnel involved in the process of transplantation, as well as the launch of campaigns, raising citizens' social awareness about this public-health problem. Pre-conditions for an annual increase of 1 to 2 donors per million over the next ten years should be allowed and, according to our calculation, for a relatively short period of seven to ten years, there would be a halt between the increase in the number of those seeking organs and the number of organ donations. As these procedures require and significant financial resources, it is necessary to propose a model of financing that will not burden the regular business of hospitals. In this regard, we also ask the Ministry of Health to address the shortcomings identified by the Community of dialysis-based kidney patients who have been associated with dialysis and transplant procedures for years, especially in the case of implantation procedures. My colleagues and colleagues, the foundation of generous giving without any compensation, is woven into Western civilization. Ethics of transplants are anonymous and voluntary donations which form the basis for organ donation. Humanity under the motto "Solidarity among Unknowns" has allowed many to begin a new life. For these reasons, this is an opportunity for us to express in the name of the Croatian Democratic Community Club our deep gratitude to all those who have participated in previous organ transplant activities, to express our deep gratitude to families who have so far been given their generous and noble permission to provide life and health to a large number of patients, calling for the overcoming violence of the culture of organ donation cultures to become a recognizable feature as part of the general culture of life of all Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16778	I thank you, on behalf of the HNS Club, the PGS's esteemed representative, Dragutim Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16779	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I want to believe that this debate on this topic today, except in order to improve the law, will contribute to the fact that many people in Croatia who are still in the dilemma whether they decide to become potential donors or not, therefore, to encourage them to make such a decision anyway. I will discuss this issue on behalf of the Club and as a parliamentary representative but also as a proud owner of the donor card for several years and as an associate of the Croatian donor network and I see that my colleague Prgomet has left his donor card here without staying here. When we talk about donating organ donations or parts of the human body, it is easy to talk about when a living person is able to decide and decide to give organs or parts of the body, but also when the recipient of that part of the body is able to reason and agree to receive another part of the body, other body or body. And there's not a lot of ethical dilemmas or problems, and there's often cases where parents save their lives or save their children or vice versa, and that's good. However, there is a problem when the organs or parts of the body must be taken from dead persons and transplanted not only to those who are willing to accept the body or organs but also to those who are not able to make such a decision and who have not made such a statement before. So far, the debate has always been and only we have dealt with the topic of organ donation in terms of donation, giving, however, there are also dilemmas whether or not the citizens of Croatia are those who wish to receive a part of the body or a foreign body, and where this is necessary from a medical point of view, they are not able to make such a decision because they can be in such a health condition that the decision cannot be made. So we must also consider this problem among those who give and those who receive. The most important diagnosis in medicine is the determination of death. And according to our regulations and practices, which are in force in Croatia in order to declare someone a potential donor, it is necessary to determine the death of the whole brain including the brain stem and the second condition is that the full irreparability of such a condition must be established. So only when these two conditions are met can it be said that someone is a potential donor. There's been a lot of talk here, but let me support the necessity of adopting this law a few new ones that I've had a chance to gain. At the end of last year, there were 982 potential recipients on the wait list for kidney transplants and another 3,000 citizens are going to regular dialysis. On the waiting list for heart transplants 21, liver 63, lung 5, pancreas 6, bone marrow more than 300 and cornea also more than 300. Even 31% of the people on the waiting list have been on those lists for more than six years. This shows that on the one hand the number of needs and on the other hand the number of transplants carried out is still far from what we need. In 2003 there was a transplant of 73 kidneys, 28 livers, 9 hearts, 8 lizards, unfortunately for bone marrow and corneas for 2003 I have no data. In 2002, dead donors, so the transplants from dead persons were 41. In Europe, a million people come to 33 donors dead, in a world of one million 21 and in Croatia 10. And that's the data despite these improvements and the increase in donor numbers we've had. How is the current state of regulation in the Republic of Croatia? We have a law in force from the '80s and his additions from 88th and passed laws from the former state of '90s and 91s. The only act that was passed after the 90th Parliament was the Resolution to encourage organ and body transplantation for treatment from the beginning of 99th on the proposal of MP Vera Stanic-Stipcevic. But something is particularly important in the final part of this resolution, there was a obligation from the Ministry of Health to report every 12 months to the Parliament on progress in that space. I don't know exactly, but it seems to me that after that resolution, this is the first time the Parliament has discussed this again. What has so far been done outside of the medical profession and institutions, the biggest contribution to the increase in the number of citizens who have decided to make a decision on organ donation, on education and popularisation of donations, was certainly also the Croatian donor network as part of a civil society which, with this approach and many lectures and seminars have decided, helped a lot and really made progress in Croatia. And now several concrete suggestions to the secretary of state in terms of improving the bill itself. Article 18 speaks of taking tissue if a person is unable to give consent. It is not said for which reasons it is not capable, so there is a dilemma that can be done if the recipient is a parent, brother, or sister of a donor but is not if the recipient is a child. Wouldn't a parent in such a situation be able to give a child? Because they're just numbered parents, siblings. Furthermore, in the last indent of that same article, it states that organisation can be carried out, but if a potential donor is not opposed, and he is unable to give consent. So if he is unable to give consent, he is not capable of resisting organ abuse, so I would ask that this article 18 be re-experienced. Article 22 introduces one novelty and a different practice from what we have had in Croatia so far. So far, the donor card has been an expression of the individual's will that he is ready to be a donor. Article 22 says that we are all potential donors if we have not put up with it in writing, this written statement by the primary health care doctor goes to the health minister. And the experiences of other countries that have been given in the introduction of this Act speak of all respecting the will of each individual, in a way, of showing the will of every citizen or of a donor card, that in some countries this decision is entered in driving licences, and I ask why we would not enter it in Croatia on a health card or on a health card as something that is available to every doctor and at any time and in any situation that would allow a really large number of citizens who know nothing about the donor card that have that decision-making option at the moment of obtaining health insurance status. Article 24 states that parts of the body of the deceased minors and those of the elderly who have not had the ability to reason may be subject to a transplant with the consent of the parents if both or both of them are alive. However, I ask why a married couple or children should not be asked before their parents if they are of age. Therefore, you also need to complete article 24 if you are already insisting on this agreement that a spouse or child have a greater right to decide from parents as provided for so far. Article 26 speaks of the powers of those health institutions which are authorised to perform the displantation of the body. And that's good. It is also good that they must have the special approval of the Minister of Health. However, given the way in which the hospital system is financed, I think it would be extremely good, extremely useful in order to reduce health costs for hospitals that submit the requirements of Article 27 and get the consent of the Minister of Health to meet not only the human resources but also the technical conditions for the determination of brain death, they have an additional source of funds in regular financing, because it is an additional cost in the operation of the hospital, especially in the part of the purchase of necessary devices and that we understand a hospital that does not have a CT cannot get, cannot get a licence for the implants. Article 30(2) provides for the obligation for healthcare professionals to take appropriate measures for the purpose of promotion, the law states, for the donation of tissues. I think it's the promiscation because it's not about selling Coca-Cola, it's about education, consulting citizens' and patients' insurance, which would really get them even higher on quality, and the issue of promotion is still more civil society. Finally, Article 34 speaks of the criminal provisions of those who violate this Law and talk about fines, even when parts of the body are taken past the law and even when parts of the body or tissues are trafficked illegally. I believe that in this article 34, the greatest sanctions and the greatest security for citizens that there will really be no manipulation we go to that every health care professional, every doctor who violates the provisions of this Act, loses his license. And I think that we will also tell citizens, potential donors, that no one, and that the state in particular stands in a supervisory sense, and that sanctioning the loss of a license is that you all know the greatest sanction that can happen because this is a violation of the rights of citizens and the possibility of manipulation that we really want to resolve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16780	Thank you very much. Thank you. At the suggestions of a number of clubs, we would continue without a break. I would like to ask the esteemed representative, Zeljko Antunovic, on behalf of the SDP Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16781	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The transplanting of organs or popular transplants is a notion that, fortunately and satisfactorily, all of us in Croatia today is not an unknown concept, does not cause doubt but is absolutely positively connoted, positively accepted and because of all possible campaigns, public campaigns, health campaigns, public campaigns, people from the public action area resulted in an extremely large and rapid expansion in the transplantation of both cells and organs and that today Croatia has no reason to be ashamed of the results achieved and that, in terms of increasing and constantly increasing the number of donors and in terms of training and the willingness of health professionals and health systems to meet the needs that we can finance. Certainly not all the needs of the sick, those who depend on life, but if we continue like this, and especially if we pass a good law that will encourage, rather than limit and bureaucratise the whole process of donating and taking and transplanting organs, I think we will get a very fast reputation in the world that is happening today. The basic problem of transplants, I'm going to start with problems, I think it's going to be okay with everything here, and I mean experts, organizations and the organisation of this very complex, complex business. In 2000, a sudden expansion began. In 2000, there were 2.7 donors in Croatia. 2003. 9, and today not only 10, as my colleague said earlier, I have the latest data that was presented at an international conference for the first 6 months of 2004, Croatia can boast of 13 donors per million people. It is indeed a matter of great expansion and clearly recognized the importance of this problem by the citizens themselves from the donors of all of us who are the basis of this law as just before the potential donors were said. The Parliament discussed it, we heard it today, and a resolution was adopted and it was not the only debate there I will do a bit of correcting those who spoke before me many times talked about transplants as a positive process of the necessary health process, there were many round tables many experts got to talk about the importance of transplants. The Assembly Committee, last I was able to follow, brought a whole series of parliamentary committees to the National Health Committee, brought a whole series of very concite conclusions, one of which I will remind this in the presence of the Ministry's representative is that every 6 months, the Assembly Committee is regularly reporting on the progress reports and new achievements in the transplant itself. So I hope that commitment is done. Everything that has happened or done so far merits praise and congratulations to all participants, enthusiasts, people who have indicated that they are willing to learn, and in Croatia to develop these modern knowledge, methods and procedures, however much we have met with barriers we must also not skip in this debate today. I hope you don't mind me saying some names, but at the same time, I won't mind not mentioning all the names. But I keep it very important because once again, one has to remember how much enthusiasm individuals and the knowledge of individuals were important to develop for the achievement of what the smut has come to today. In 71 C.E., professors were mentioned. Franciskovic in KBC Rijeka is the first kidney transplant. 80th year of Prof. The Falcon on the Rebr first heart transplant. In 90th year, Professor Borčić was the first liver transplanter on Rebr. 83rd year, Prof. The lab on Rebar performed the first bone marrow transplant here should be mentioned that it happened in Zagreb before in Vienna. Today, bone marrow transplants are working very successfully, and Prof. Jaksic in Mercury. It's about what was first and what was history. But it should also be mentioned a well-known team from Mercur Hospital, led by Professor. The Patrl should mention his entire brilliant team, which consists not only of doctors but of many other brave visionaries. You should mention today's team from the Rebra-led Professor. With carelessness and professor. With a beating. Dr. Skegram. I guess that's the mention of the professor. The barber who runs the tipizaciu office also on Rebra, which is also a reference tissue typeing centre. It's worth mentioning. Sutlica and Biocina from Dubrava Hospital and Docent Anic from the ribs that are transplanting the heart today. It should also be mentioned by others who were one of those who led the Transit Committee in 2000 and who enabled and helped many to make this big expansion happen. I can't not mention Dr. The donor network of Croatia, we saw the cards here today. These are all valuable people who are and how worthy they are to be mentioned here. The tissue transplant is something different from organ transplants, so the first corneal transplant was done somewhere far away in 39 years, but the general hospital of St. A ghost who also has an eye bank. It's worth mentioning. Gabrica, Professor Dekaris, Professor Henc, Petrinovic. It should also be mentioned here not only this health and health care staff in health institutions, but all those accompanying services. Flight crews who don't sleep under 24 doing this job. Drivers, transplant coordinators in hospitals that may not be qualified for transplants. It is worth mentioning the donors and their families, one more time to say that all of this so far has been built less on the system and more on enthusiasm and motivation. And for this reason, the adoption of this law is important and one milestone should be marked. A turning point for enthusiasm and motivation to replace the system of good grace, clear and precise established procedures. And so let me say a few conca+rete remarks about this law, which in general is good and satisfying but I think it can be better. The principle observations refer to the fact that the law should be more specific to the specificities of the donation and transplantation of cells and tissues than the donation of organs. There are some differences, a greater argument in the law itself suggests that it is full of more events in the practice of tissue transplantation than organ transplants and related to these specificities do not now enter what is the profession, noting that this should be seen through the law. The law does not provide for any situation that also happens in practice, which is who will decide on the donation of tissue or or organ that goes into exchange, which means when there are no friends on the national lists or national lists. When given to an organ or tissue in exchange, the law does not provide for who it is to decide. It should be introduced into the law. I noticed that there is no law and no mention of any situations that we already know from practice. And that is that in Croatia sometimes a transplant service is sought by foreigners. Under this bill, it will be impossible to do this in the future because it is completely unregulated to talk only about national lists and we have a situation particularly with regard to BiH and some of the other auctions that were once in the former Yugoslavia's meeting where people are coming in and are looking for a health service. I think it's something that needs to be figured out. What needs to be found in the law is to be regulated. The following is what I would like to warn in principle that the Law does not mention organisations that assist this transplant as a whole, such as the mentions already, the Croatian donor network, other different NGOs that play an important role and can if they do not have a more important role to play in this. I think the law should cover it all. We also have a number of concrete remarks, Article 29(1) should be specified there is a talk about that taking can only be done by an institution which will perform the transplant. However, it should be clarified, because in practice we know that the teams from the transplant facility are leaving and taking the organ and in some places in the institutions where otherwise, which are unauthorized and unauthorized for transplantation, but it is specific health processes, specific procedures where they go on site, are taken from donors, and sometimes this is done and in some areas so that there are no disputes later on, I cannot argue that the applicant's intensity was to rule out such situations, but not to be disputed. Article 31(2) speaks of national waiting lists, i.e. national waiting lists at reference centres for the taking and transplantation of the human body for treatment purposes. It's completely unclear who it is, what the reference center is. We have a reference center for tissue typing, but the reference centre for taking and transplanting does not exist, and experts say that it is not possible to create it in one place, and it is not acceptable to create it in Croatian conditions. It's an observation that's serious and most serious. The national lists seem to be in the plural because they refer to different organs, it can't be just one list because it's different organs. Article 32 states that the ministry is doing the tasks that an expert should take over from another central organisation, sometimes referred to as a CRO-transplant, but certainly outside the ministry. It won't be good, and it won't be effective if in one particular ministry today, a large ministry tries to push something better into the practices of the world by such special organisations, and we suggest that all of this and these national waiting lists be drawn into a special organisation that will be supervised by the ministry, but not an integral part of the ministry. And finally let me say something about funds that are also not in the law itself, but in that reasoning of the law, it's said that in 2005 millions and 700 kunas should be allocated for transplants. What's our principle point is that only 300 grand is intended to inform the system, and if we don't get more out of this job, then we'll hardly be able to talk about the further positive shifts that have been going on for some time and that we need to encourage, not stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16782	Thank you very much. At the gallery, we welcome the delegation of the Croatian community from Macedonia following this debate. I now ask the honourable representative Ljubica Lalić on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16783	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. So, starting with the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, the area of medical transplant is regulated by the 1980 law, and that the law was passed as a Croatian law in 1991, given the development of medical science that allows for an increasing number of people to be treated by transplants, we can say that this law is welcome and was long needed as such. For a long time, we followed the data that spoke about Croatia with a small number of donors, and too many of those for whom the transplant is actually a new birth. It encourages the fact that the number of donors is increasing, indicating that in 2000, only 2.7 realized donors per million inhabitants, while in 2003 the number grew to 9 which is still not enough. Reflecting on the reasons of a small number of donors, it was an impression that the main reason in the minds of our citizens is that they are oblivious of donorism and even after death. That this was the wrong impression was shown by the organisation, an action to organise the signing of donor cards organised by young Croatian peasant parties. For example, only in one action in Slavonski Brod in just an hour and a half 67 citizens of Slavonski Brod gave their signature and thus showed and proved that for them the most humane work in one man's life by giving its own organs saved the life of another, and experts say that one man can save even four lives by donation. Citizens in the described action, the cards were signed, provided their data that the young Croatian peasant parties systematised and delivered to the Ministry of Health. They believed, and I also believed that my signed card proves my will to donate and that I am based on that card in the event of my death can be available in the function of saving other people's lives. The other day I found out it wasn't like that and that our cards were meaningless. It seems that we are also different from the Americans who have signed the donor card to prove the public's express consent. This donorship law has a different approach, so Article 22 says: "parts of the body are deceased, can be taken for transplants only if the donor for life has not objected in writing". So the law rests on the assumption that all citizens are donors, except those who have opposed it for life in writing. In Croatia, we do not object to such an approach, but we do not consider that even such a starting point excludes society's obligation to educate citizens on the importance and size of humanity of donation and does not exclude the ownership of donor cards. In the minds of citizens, there is fear, but not fear of donorism, but fear of abuses that are possible and that are not imaginary but are very real. We therefore believe that this law must be so clear and convincing as to ensure that every citizen is protected from abuse. In the case of deceased donors, this security shall be given in Article 21 under which the certificate of death must not be given to doctors who directly participate in taking or transplanting part of the body from a deceased person or who are responsible for caring for the possible recipients of the part of the body. The body or tissue of the living donor may be taken exclusively for the purpose of treating the recipient unless there is an appropriate organ or tissue of the deceased person and there is no other approximately equal treatment method. The organ or tissue of a living donor cannot be taken without the express consent of the donor in writing. The consent may be conditional upon a transplant of a particular person. The greatest abuses are possible when taking parts of the body of the dead. This is probably why the proposer chose the option of involving a larger number of doctors. Is this a sufficient mechanism of protection that will show time, because in practice, such phenomena occur that no other country is simply not possible. Therefore, additional mechanisms for the control of the implementation of this law may still need to be considered. If this bill were to be adopted on this House, and I believe it will, it would come into effect on the eighth day of its publication. This is the first reading, and we hope there won't be any problem with him being adopted at the 9th month. If that is the case, then I find it incorrect to explain that the implementation of this law in 2004 will not require additional funding from the state budget. The promoter says the health ministry will have to ensure that a billion and 700 million kuna transplant programme is implemented in 2005. Is that enough to be said by the experts in this area, but the layman's view is a strange schedule because 800,000 kuna is foreseen for the transport of exploitation teams and bodies, 300 thousand for the production and implementation of unique IT support for the system of national waiting lists and distribution of organs and tissues and monitoring of transplant results and the acquisition of communication technology in order to ensure availability and rapid exchange of information. 300 thousand kuna for promotional activities and 300 thousand kuna for the systematic and continuous education of healthcare professionals included in this programme is obvious that I did not have a lapus of a billion and 700 but also a million and 700. The schedule does not seem logical, and there is not a single word about the arrangement of operating halls, the purchase of new equipment and training of new medical teams or teams that would transfer to life those opportunities that this Law gives. We therefore fear that we are getting another law that draws us closer even to the regulation of other European Union countries and what makes us different from others is that we will remain only a dead letter on paper, which is the fear that exists in us. We in the Croatian peasant party would like the law to live and the most desirable law awaits those waiting for organ transplants because it depends on the answer to the question whether they have the right to tomorrow. We think they have not only them but maybe one of us who can be in their situation tomorrow. The HSS representative club supports the proposal for a law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body in order to treat it with a desire to bring it in as soon as possible and in practice as no one will benefit without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16784	Thank you. The word on behalf of the HSLS DC Club has a distinguished representative, Mate Brletić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Although Croatia has a long-standing organ transplant law similar to that of most European countries, it is welcome to propose a new law that will defile and refresh the existing Law in some elements and adapt it to the new times and standards of the Council of Europe such as the consent of a family that has died for organisation. Registrar of those who oppose and permanent education to the public and others. It is important to refer to this bill on the issue of taking parts of the body for the purpose of treatment because organ transplants are regarded as generally accepted medical, ethical, psychological and socially justified treatment as the basis of human rights. In view of the need to take as many appropriate measures as possible to increase organ and tissue donations, transplant treatment and post-mortal donation of bodies to the public and to highlight the ethical principles on which it is based, as giving the organ means preserving other people's lives. It is valuable that funds are provided for further education of health professionals within the health system on the plan not only of transplants but also of the collection of organs of dead persons because there is no transplant without organs. Only continuous work in the public and education of the health system ensures sufficient number of transplant organs and thus the possibility of saving a large number of human lives. We need to know that every citizen is a potential donor but also citizens often forget that they are potential organ recipients. I would stress the importance of adopting such a law which should be followed by contemporary legal solutions of the Council of Europe and the European Union in order to minimise the abuse and violation of the rights of persons participating in these proceedings. Any procedure that seeks to commercialise or treat human organs as a subject of exchange or trade is considered morally unacceptable. According to some information in Croatia, organ trafficking has so far been inconclusive, although among the population of registered individual public intentions to sell their organs. So far, there has been no minimum possibility of such a thing being carried out, as organ transplants are carried out only in clinical hospital institutions, but there is also a law to defend and defend transplant bodies in private medical institutions and to bring abuse or trafficking to organs that result in material gain. We must refer to a part of the bill in which under the general provisions of paragraphs 2 and 7 it is not allowed to take organs or tissues from a person who is unable to grant consent and that it is possible to grant exclusive authorisation of the regenerative tissue from persons who are unable to give consent and under the law prescribed conditions, we consider that, in this way, in general provisions of the draft law, it is possible to manipulate regenerative tissue and these are stem cells that are derived from the blood of the umbilical child who is unable to give consent. So we suggest that if you really take blood from the umbilical cord for certain purposes, it should be determined by law and not by regulation because the exception itself should be defined as having someone sign consent and that is the mother of the child. The exceptional use of regenerative tissue for the purpose of treating relatives and relatives is very important, so it should not be dragged through this law undetected because it raises questions as to what if, for example, the recipient in the meantime is in such a bad state that he no longer needs this blood preparation. IS then given to another recipient and under what circumstances. How to store that tissue and how to destroy it so that there is no abuse. I have already mentioned that the lack of available organs and tissues requires support for appropriate measures to increase organ and tissue donation, but I must say that no example of countries whose regulation of tissue organ transplantation is mentioned in the United States, the Netherlands, Ireland and Slovenia has mentioned regenerative tissue neither blood nor tissue cells nor organs of human reproductive system. According to the recommendation of 25 May 2004, the organs, tissues and cells of tissue and cell products should be defined especially in tissue and cell organs belonging to the reproductive organs of men and women. It is equally necessary to stress that the donor and its potential tissue and cell organs will be analysed in particular, as well as tissue and cell products that come into consideration for the donation to today known infectious and hereditary agents. So I think we could make a mistake. If we don't limit ourselves to regulation by this law only organ and tissue transplants, which have plagued us as a country for decades. And to regulate the transplant by special law... the tissues, and by law we stress explicitly, and this can already be done in this law, that any transplant of the ova and reproductive organs of women in the Republic of Croatia is prohibited in the Republic of Croatia. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The DC and HSLS Club proposes that the adopted law on the taking of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment define what is most important for Croatia at the moment, which is the regulation of organ transplants, kidneys, heart, liver, etc., and that under special law regulate the taking of tissue and tissue of static products belonging to the reproductive part of men and women. Because since we haven't had a modern law by now, we should be going into a high-quality law. The organ transplant is huge... in the service of man. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The organ donation is one of the ways in which the culture of life is nurtured in an ethnically acceptable way with the sense of preserving the health and life of patients who have no other hope. It is important that the organ transplant law is in line with European Union standards, allowing Croatia to join major transplant associations and thus to start organ exchange among European countries. Until a short time ago, it wasn't possible at all. The DC and HSLS Club therefore considers it necessary to adopt this law and will vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16786	I thank the honourable representative. It is next on behalf of the Club SDSS representative Vojislav, the esteemed representative Vojislav Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16787	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At its 8th session of the Proposal for a Law on the Taking and Transplant of Parts of the Human Body for Treatment, which was submitted by the government to the Croatian Parliament. In this proposal of this law, its content is immediately noted, it introduces modern legal solutions already in place in the Council of Europe, in the European Union. In the Republic of Croatia, this area of transplant medicine was regulated by the old laws published in the National Journal of 80, 88, 90, 91, which at the time were in line with trends of the then transplant medicine, but are not in line with the achievements of today's medical science. Medical science today opens up the possibility of an increasing number of people with chronic and... diseases that this kind of treatment that has medical psychological, ethical and economic justification. This bill also contains several chapters between the other and the general provisions which state the justification for taking and transplanting parts of the human body on use in accordance with medical science rules, on fair availability to recipients on the national waiting lists and in line with transparent objective public accepted medical criteria. The prohibition of giving, or receiving any cash compensation, and other material benefits, of banning the trafficking of parts of the human body and personal data of donors and recipients of parts of the human body which represent a professional secret. The second chapter discusses taking parts of the body from a living donor. At the very beginning of this chapter, it is pointed out that tissues and organs can be taken from a living donor for the purpose of treating the recipient only if there is no suitable organ or tissue of the deceased person or any other approximately, some other approximate equal treatment method. It emphasizes that only the refurbishing tissues should be taken from a living donor. We at the SDSS Club believe that here should indicate what organs of tissue can be taken from a living donor, such as one kidney, part of the liver, part of the skin, bone marrow. While organs such as heart, lungs, eyes, lizards can be donated after death. We also believe that it is necessary to consider the possibility of entering the legislation that living donors should know who they donated to in order not to create the possibility of the purchase of organs and sales on the illegal market of organs. The third chapter is about taking parts of the body are dead persons. It must primarily respect the medical criteria for the death of a patient, i.e. in a proper manner. that a confirmed brain or heart failure, and that could only then be... They're taking transplant organs. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important that the proposal emphasises that the certificate of death must not be given by doctors who are directly involved in taking... The parts of the body from the deceased and that parts of the body must not be taken from the deceased if they are opposed to it in writing for life. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] The fourth chapter discusses the availability of taken parts of the human body, noting that living donors may only take parts of the body to a person over the age of 18, provided that it is capable of judgment. That the living donor gave consent in writing. For a living donor to be introduced by his doctor about the potential risks and consequences that a particular medical procedure may bring and that parts of the body of a person unable to reason may be taken for transplants if both parents are alive or one of the parents if such a person has lived with a person unable to reason. In dead donors, it is necessary in writing to explicitly prohibit the taking of parts of his body for life. In dead donors who are underage and incompetent to reason, parental consent is necessary in one case or another. But such a right as is predicted in this law is thought to be questionable for a legal representative or guardian, and we think it should be considered. The fifth chapter discusses the organisation of health institutions, institutions that participate in the taking of body parts for treatment purposes. It is absolutely certain that part of this job as well as competence within the Ministry of Health, but we believe that the institution of this whole job should not be just a ministry, if we want this law to really live in practice and give this kind of treatment an adequate place. If we give an example of the richest countries in the United States that have one national co-ordination centre for their 50 countries that work 24 hours a day and coordinate work among all countries. The question arises, why one such centre cannot have a Republic of Croatia covering dozens of hospitals and coordinating work with other co-ordination centres in Europe and beyond. This centre would have to keep track of new patients every day potential transplant candidates, the records of new patients, where the transplants were made. Those who died waiting for the transplant to take place. Below the national co-ordination centre should be the donor bio plants, with us clinical, county and urban and general who would have direct communication with the national co-ordination centre, as well as with the transplant centre, i.e. clinics designated by the Ministry. These transplant centres must be supplied spatially, professionally, laboratoryly, administratively related to patient records waiting for a transplant on waiting time for operations, on public and waiting lists. The attitude towards transplant and expansion medicine in Western civilizations is best depicted by an American poet Robert Test in his song called "To Remember Me", where he said among other things. "When my doctor finds that my brain has stopped working and that my life has stopped, don't try to artificially keep me alive, but put my body on a white sheet and let it be the bed of life." He wrote further, "My sight give to a man who has never seen the sunrise, the face of a child and the love in his wife's eyes. Give my heart to a person whose heart brought nothing but endless pain. Give my blood to a teenager whose body was pulled from a crushed wreck to survive and see the game of his grandchildren. Give my kidneys to the one whose survival in life every day depends on the apparatus. Take my bones, every muscle, every tissue and nerve out of my body and find a way for a crippled child to walk. If you do everything I ask, I will live forever." Finally, the SDSS Club will support the proposal of the Law on the Taking and Transplanting of a Human Body for the purpose of treating with a recommendation that the comments and suggestions that we have highlighted consider and possibly include for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16788	I thank the honourable representative. This is what we ended up discussing in clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. There are 12 registered, and since the representatives of the clubs or from the presentations are visible that the most likely law will be unanimously passed I appeal to the representatives for the individual debate to look at or some new proposals to reduce the time of the debate and to be able to approach the votes of the completion of the agenda as soon as possible. It's time for the esteemed representative, Kajo Bucan.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16789	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! What is technically possible does not mean that it is morally acceptable. Organ transplants or transplants are a major achievement of science in the service of man with which many bioethical issues are born. When mentioning organ transplants, the vast majority think of 1967 and the first successful heart transplant performed by the famous doctor Christian in South Africa by Cape Town... , but it is less known that this year was also revolutionary for organ transplants because for the first time in that year, liver transplants were successfully performed both at the same time by kidneys and lizards. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What is the significance of these acts is that in 1990 the Nobel Prize in this area was awarded to Josec Murray for a kidney transplant and Donald Thomas, who had transplanted the first bone marrow in 1956. The first successful transplant from a living relative was carried out in 51 and the first successful kidney transplant from a living non-compared donor in Europe was carried out also in 59, but also in Paris. Why am I bringing this up? Because here the basic principle of medical skills is "no nocera" not to harm suffering, it suffers from transplants from a living donor but it is also allowed in many advanced countries such as Sweden and Norway and others makes up a large part of transplant medicine. Latin saying "pars propter totum" i.e. Part of there exists for the whole can be applied here, i.e. The procedure must be done for a good whole, must be necessary and must be done at the time, at that time and effective treatment. In 1987, it came to the first so-called. Domino transplant in Baltimore, United States where for the first time a patient with a sick lung and a healthy heart was transplanted heart and lung and he donated his healthy heart to a patient with a sick heart. It also raises new ethical issues. The attitudes were mentioned here, so let me once again say that famous sentence of the Holy Father, which, on one occasion, said that it was a shame to bury what could serve life. And all regulations, as already said, allow and support organ transplants and donations. The exception is Shintoism where the dead body is kept unclean and dangerous and its touching is considered a serious violation. Today, about 25 different organs and tissues can be transplanted. According to the number of large organ donors, the United States with 21 donors per million in 2003 and the Philippines's 0.1 donor is at the bottom of the scale. Croatia is the last with 9 donors per million in Europe. In the middle of where I come from in my native Split, dialysis is currently 179 patients. These are the data from 31.12.2003 and are valid for 2003. 28 of these patients died last year. There are 63 patients on the kidney waiting list and in the last year a patient with a kidney transplant died. Just to encourage a broad organ donation action and also prevent possible abuses, it is necessary to precisely regulate this area legally and bring it into line with the positive experiences of the developed world in order to create public trust among other things and convince the population of inability and exclusion of abuse and also to break the myths of abductions overnight to extract organs, to place rich people at the top of the waiting list, to insult the body when taking organs, etc. Sometimes, unfortunately, we can also read in the daily press the cry of desperate people as it was in Free Dalmatia on March 19th of this year. I quote, "I'm selling my kidney because I don't want to steal and that's my only way out of trouble." With due regard to the situation in which such people find themselves, this is not possible in accordance with Article 42. The criminal code of the Republic of Croatia and pursuant to Article 5 of this proposal of the law and under Article 6 shall be prohibited. Given that, in its nature, the law regulates the area of inter-human social co-existence and that, on its very basis, the law is the lowest degree of morality and must not be in conflict with moral values, allow me to make concrete remarks on the proposed text. I will first make a few remarks on this day on the text on the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a human being which is given to us as an attachment to the bill of law regarding the application of biology and medicine. First of all, it would be a good idea to listen to something literally, what it sounds like when it's literally translated. So it sounds completely illogical and a formulation on page 5 informed donor consent. Because it doesn't mean anything at all, but it should stand for the consent of an informed donor. But this is immediately and commendably, very well corrected in Articles 16 and 17 of this proposal. It is also said in the Convention that the organ or tissue will not be taken if there is a serious risk to the life or health of the donor. There's always a serious risk. And that risk always exists and this is well formulated in Article 2(2) of the same Convention, which says if the danger to its health is to medical criteria within the limits of acceptable. And I think it's a formulation that needs to be used in this bill. I believe that Article 13 of page 21 should also complement the decision of the qualified ethical committee to be appointed on the basis of certain education and criteria. Article 22 in most countries of the European Community which have the law of presupposed consent, the practice of asking the close family of a directly deceased member for permission to take organ in order to transplant. And in Germany, Ireland, Denmark, Great Britain, the Netherlands needs a mandatory family permit. I propose, Mr. Secretary of State, that we do the same in this Bill proposal because other than that, it is a more humane approach, it is also necessary to have a traditional society that gardens Christian civilizational gain and is still fully in line with Article 5(1) of the Code of Medical Ethics and Deontology. I think we should specify Article 29 and say that the taking of organs and not parts of the body are reviving donors for the purpose of transplanting can be carried out by an institution that will also perform and transplant that part of the body. We have far more expansion teams and so to express myself in far more mediums of expansion options than we have for transplants. Despite these remarks, I believe it is a very good first reading of this law, which, together with the consolidated text and the rules adopted by the minister, will significantly improve the legislative regulation of this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16790	Thank you. My appeal to you hasn't come across fertile soil, you're still out of time. The word has a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16791	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The new Law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment is very much needed because the legal regulations and also the practice created therein seem to really prevent or restrict the possibility that there is a right to bridge or at least in some way prevail or at least mitigate the chronic crisis of the lack of works of the human body that are ready and suitable for transplantation. So everyone here has also spoken and pointed out and it is unequivocally, exactly that so far the law, the legislation does not satisfy. It is certain that the human body has one high ethical purpose but death is an inevitable act for each of us. And that's why anything that can be used for extension or at least relief of the living should be supported. A principle that does not harm others or is willing to take the risk of such damage and goes towards life should be supported. This has already highlighted the uncontested merit and value of Croatia's donor network and initiatives that were held back several years and certainly this positive shift, must not be stopped, that the state must and can provide appropriate incentives precisely because it is one I would say a condition without which there will be no more active transplants. These incentives must, of course, be appropriate in all respects but should not be afraid of the expressions of promiscation. Yeah, we need a promotion right here. The state has just been first invited to encourage people to do good. And whenever such actions were especially driven by the state by surprise was that echo, secret feedback. So, in this very sense, I think that kind of incentive is necessary to us. And that's why it seems to me that this bill in that sense, and also in encouraging giving but equally creating opportunities for giving and transplanting, is not ambitious enough. He was supposed to be braver, and we expect that until the second reading. I'd even say it's in many provisions that can't be read directly but when we see their application later that it's conservative. In the paragraph, and here are a few concrete perhaps already observations to make this text more effective and also richer precisely for the sake of, precisely, the wealth of life and the situations in which it can be done just by applying this law. Thus, in its Article 1 sentence, the Law states that it does not apply to cells or tissues reproduced as well as to blood-derived stem cells. We know that there is a special law that speaks of blood transfusions, and we also know that there is a Law on extra-body fertilization that has already become obsolete. And that's why it would be very good for us to get a final proposal that we already have a proposal at the time, a new bill of law or an amendment to the law on out-of-body fertilisation. There is a sign, because the public is not aware of what the proposal is doing, perhaps at that stage, the public should be aware but it would be alarming if there is a restriction that out-of-body insemination is being banned from those who are not married. So, if that's true, if the rumors are so accurate, I'm seriously warning, so one unconstitutional thing and that can't happen to the applicant or not. On this trail in Article 10, the proposer must also take note of the fact that we have already had the norm in Croatia since 1978 that your spouse is equal to the marriage mate and the number of those laws that he proposes must be taken into account. Therefore, the consent for giving or parts of the human body must be included with the spouse. It is not doubtful here, many have pointed out, no religion forbids giving, giving, or transplanting, parts of the human body. Giving life for our country is something that is normal and moral to all of us, but giving life for another is also the highest degree, the form of love for another. And that's also what every religion admits, morale admits it but the legislator doesn't. Article 14 states that the body or tissue will not be taken if there is a serious risk to the life or health of the donor. There are people who are old, and they don't have to be very old, but they just want to get out of life to save another man, maybe the closest one, whether he's related or not to him in that kind of relationship. And the legislator must consider that. So he has to, or he has to propose, and later we have to, as a legislator. So no longer that boldness, and we mustn't simply be overwhelmed by such prejudices, and on the other hand, propagating the moral and religious principles that they are imposing, and we here see this in, that is, the proposer here rules it out as an option. What's very important and on the trail is what I'm about, exactly this article that I was saying that parents should also give consent, and that's also impossible, to transplant a part of my child's body if that child's life is not being threatened, and another child's life is being saved. That is, according to this law, even though I don't believe that the promoter had it in mind, but here's how complex the text is, that's how it comes out. And certainly here, in the case of criminal provisions other than fines for abuses, it is necessary to provide for a protective measure to prohibit such calls or calls for nurses and those involved, or to prevent exactly the confidence of healthcare professionals. Because back in a few years, it was simply incomprehensible for us to face human, human beings as a country. And today it is just the predicate work of the most dangerous organized crime. This is something that Croatia can face tomorrow, and that is why it is just important that the state affirms that parts of the human body be as much as possible. For transplants, this is the safest way to prevent crime, human body trafficking, or parts of the human body. And the dangers resulting from this, if we do not act, we will not act in a preventive way, but also this one gap between the poor and the rich leads to such dangers, and this should certainly be taken into account, and here I would quote Dr. Pokrazanovic, therefore the president of the Croatian Donor Network, where each one should have a CT because he says: “The successful country in the area of transplants is measured precisely by the number of institutions that are ready to determine the brain death and the potential donor to be turned into real.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16792	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16793	Dear Vice President at home, colleagues and colleagues! The transplant has recently become a widely accepted method of treatment from both medical and ethnic point of view and we here in Croatia can be proud of the results that have been achieved in recent years. Much has been done to popularise donorism in Croatia. The donor card was also introduced as an expression of the will of an individual to leave his body parts, his organs, tissues for medical purposes to help others, to save his life. There are no donor cards in this bill. Maybe you don't need the intensity of the Donor Card Act. It should not be because a body from a deceased person can be taken in any case unless the person is opposed to such a procedure for life in an explicit statement. Such a provision is also in force in a valid, valid legal solution. Practice is different. Medical teams never take organs from the deceased without consulting the family before. This may narrow the number of donors and the intensity of this Law that family should not be asked when it comes to a full - age person who has not objected is good. It would be good for him to live in practice. And I disagree with my HDZ colleague who said that this existing practice should be legalised because it will reduce donor numbers and complicate, unnecessarily complicated this transplant process. It is sufficient to respect the fact that no organs will be taken from a person who is explicitly opposed to it. So this legal solution is good, I support it and should introduce it into practice. In transplants, I think three moments are important; organization, space and money. It seems to me that the organization in this bill may be the most deficient. Croatia would need a national organ transplant centre that would certainly be under Ministry's supervision. Maybe the Minister directly. Because it would be national. There is a “Croatia transplant” in Croatia as such a roof institution that did not live in the best sense of the word, but should inhale that breath of life, it should be encouraged to take on those obligations that such roof organisations have in other countries. Because that's what the legislator himself states. In Slovenia it is a “Slovenian transplant”, in the Dutch Centre for Authorities, in Ireland the National Body Delivery Service founded in 1986, in the United States of America, the United Network for Body Sheering. There are therefore organisations which, institutions dealing with co-ordination of all transplant-related jobs. Instead, the Bill of Law in Article 32 offers to do so by the Ministry. That's a bad solution. The Ministry is one administrative organization, she's got a lot of work to do, but not this one. You'd still have to do this to someone else because you look at what it says now. That's what the ministry's doing. He's doing the following jobs. The allocation of organs and tissues and cooperation with the reference centre. Which apropo doesn't have. So now we don't have a reference centre and the ministry decides to assign an organ, so the minister will decide who gets the organ. That's not good. I doubt the intensity of the proposal was like that. And that should be fixed by the second reading. Or, for example, the chartering of the transport of teams and orgasms, so the ministry will not organise teams and bodies for the transport of organs. That would have to be done by that national center. So all these jobs you listed in article 32 that you are predicting for the ministry should be left with something that can be called the Croatian Transpalt, call it what you will but establish a second reading about this bill by example to all European countries, according to the example of the United States, there is no reason for this to be solved differently with us. In Article 31, you can see something that is not there. And this is a reference center for taking and transplanting parts of human bodies in all treatments. that in Croatia does not exist is not established. We've got a tissue tipizaic reference center, but we don't have one. Well, it doesn't make sense that there's something in the law that's not there. And the question is that the reference centre is now going to establish it, so the minister can start it, but the question of who will miss you. Will that, for example? Leave to KBC Zagreb which are best at transplanting kidneys or hearts, or Mercury which is the best in the liver or will have two reference centres or perhaps the third and in Rijeka, and how the coordination between several reference centres will then look. So this also suggests that we still need one national institution. Not the reference center. Space like another problem. Look Croatia needs a new modern new house, perhaps the Dubrave type of Zagreb or New Rebra today when it makes. Because the teams that work now have no space. Look at Mercury coming back to the urology that's been evicted and now they're pressing the space of these teams Dr. A patrol that does it seriously well. And now a place for a team that works well to increase their space, we narrow down their space by a minister's decision. That's not good. It is not a good thing to think that somewhere, it does not necessarily have to be in Zagreb, although it would be the most logical to be in Zagreb, one institution, one department that would be serious. The third is money. An important component is that of us reduced to the work of enthusiasts. The team es dealing with enthusiasts and their enthusiasm they have achieved such spectacular results that the ossu has achieved. And watch this transplant if it is not done in Croatia must be done outside if medically justified. It costs 150,000 euros outside, and costs 160,000 kuna in Croatia. And it's our interest to encourage and develop these transplant programs to strengthen transplant teams, educate people because it's simply cheaper for us. It's about sending people out for transplants. When it comes to money, it should certainly be said that these 300 thousand kunas are intended for the production of unique IT equipment are absolutely insufficient. I don't know how to buy half the equipment, so then I don't know, hardware, you won't be able to buy a software or give it to the software and we won't have anything. If the Ministry has decided if it has decided to go into this, and we all encourage it to go into it, it still needs to separate a little more funds that the thing is already going into it, that it works and that it makes sense. All in all, I think this is a good first-reading breakthrough. In addition to these remarks that many clubs and individual representatives point out, it is above all noted that a national organ transplant centre should be established. That he could be a law in another reading that would be absolutely acceptable to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16794	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Stjepan Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16795	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we are in front of us after a lengthy debate of the law on amendments and amendments to the law on I would say a shortened transplant medicine. Fortunately, the transplant medicine in Croatia has, I would say, our conditions of a long tradition, there 71c. And what is especially to be pointed out is just the last few years one explosion actually, the transplant medicine when the number of transplants has increased. And it's those numbers that have already been taken out so you wouldn't be repeating them now. In any case, what is important in this Law is to say that this Law actually comes after what the medical profession has done in one period, that they have also created professional but ethical moral problems as well. And that's why medicine is always going ahead of the law, and now we're in a position to regulate these new problems and dilemmas that occur in this kind of medicine. So to ensure in some way quality control, and this law does, what it means to be one center for and what conditions it must have, so which criteria must be respected by anyone who deals with such a business. And that's good. I'd just like to remind you of two things that are based on this new law. That the transplant is only done when it's medically justified. And that's good. And there's a national waiting list. Which is under strict control, and it makes it impossible for discrimination to be made against a stalemate criterion or for the rich to have the advantage. So absolute medical criteria that are under strict control. What's even more important is what's being achieved by this kind of medicine. I wouldn't talk about numbers and economic effects. Because it is known that hemodialysis treatment is almost double the cost of a kidney transplant today. But I'd put a second one first, and that's the quality of life that patients who undergo this kind of treatment later have. And that's something that's most valuable and certainly deserves special attention. And that's why all that's said in the debate so far is I think useful, and that the legislator will take it all into account. So this dilemma is given well that it is all done by the Min History of Health, or that in the future one special agency or Croatian one transplant as it is in other countries, therefore, a transplant centre that would be independent of the ministry. But in any case under the control of the ministry as well as any other activity in health care. This is to be considered and surely the promoters will consider it until the second reading. I suppose that in today's debates all these problems and dilemmas are indicated, that they are remembered and that I say all of this will be appreciated until the second reading, and that's why I think I support this first reading text as much as most of them who have discussed it so far and we expect to get a really good law in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16796	Thank you. The word has a respected representative Marko Turic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16797	Dear Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. As president of the Committee on Labour, Social Policy and Health, we heard from the report that somewhere we agreed to this law, we even expressed our own little personal desires in order to be somehow very pleased if all the laws in this sense were so human, so entirely coming to us on these benches. As we've heard from the people who've been participating in this debate either on behalf of their clubs or individually, this is really going to be about the consensus of accepting this bill, and the appeal of the chairman, and then I, in this sense, will shorten my discussion and that will be my contribution. Of course, I don't want to talk here about the purely noble humane intent of this law, the historical resolution that took place in 99th in this House, the reports that follow this area, and where, year after year since 2000, we have a number of transplants here, and a 300% figure is mentioned. Then a law that very precisely defines the donor, or donor, which makes a distinction between organ donors, i.e. cadavers and living persons of cells and tissues. Then the need for an institution, or a centre where this would be conducted and, of course, waiting lists that must be transparent and that is, the possibility of abuse of all of this. That's what we heard almost everything about. But I'd like to say something else here for a little while. That comes out here we've heard that we live somewhere, somewhere we live in a rather conservative maybe moment, a mile, and this law has, in that sense, maybe one color of it all. Well, it's actually like the heritage of a Christian tradition that we're sure to look somewhere at the story and on the side like mental people. I personally appreciate that at this point you should appeal that it is necessary for this problem to put it on a level of information and trust, therefore both information and trust. So let's do it as people, public people, that special people who deal with the media in a way that makes a civilization shift in the creation of a positive public opinion that will apply to all of this. And in the end, if you're willing to donate, then you can expect others to give it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16798	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative of Alenka Kosha Chichin-Shain. He's not in the hall, and he's losing his right to raps. The word has a distinguished representative, Ruža lelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. And I join this to support the adoption of the proposed law, because existing laws that regulate this sensitive and important issue, and yet from 80, 90 and 91, do not match the achievements of today's medical science and do not follow the legal solutions of the Council of Europe and the European Union. The proposed law aims to share clear criteria for medical practice in the field of transplant medicine and to place Croatia in order of European countries that have covered this area medically and legally and all with a view to creating one legal certainty for persons seeking such medical assistance, as well as those providing it. The growing need to transplant parts of the human body is the result of greater opportunities and success of transplant medicine, as well as broader indications for transplant treatment. Although the method is generally accepted and ethically and economically justified, the number of organs taken from dead people has not increased significantly, this problem is the lack of organs to transplant more and more current in us and in the world. It has already been mentioned here on several occasions that in Croatia since 1971, the first kidney transplant was carried out in Rijeka, but a heart transplant was carried out in 88, 1990, the liver in 2002, but in 2003 new surgical techniques for more organic transplants of lizards and kidneys were introduced. And the number of donors has increased in Croatia. As early as 2000 and 2001, we were at the beginning of European countries, ahead of Greece, to move away from us already in 2002, to take a place just below Sweden and Switzerland from 9 donors per million inhabitants, and a significant positive shift continues in 2004, which brings us closer to the average of the European countries that have 16 donors per million inhabitants. Yet, it must neither please nor slow us down. In the last few years, there have been about 500 new cases in Croatia on regular dialysis annually, and the number has almost doubled in the last ten years. At the end of 2000, there are 800 patients on the wait list for the kidney, and in addition, patients waiting for a pancreas transplant, then the heart, liver, cornea, and most regrettable part of the patients on the waiting list are not welcomed by the transplanting organ, which may often lead to unjustly resorting to transplants from a living donor. I have experience and I know many patients who go into haemodialysis and I know how much these people really suffer. I also know a patient who has been transplanted both by the pancreas and the kidney, which seems amazing to us, because it's hard to imagine what it means to someone who's taking insulin and going on dialysis that now there's no more of it. Therefore, taking and transplanting parts of the human body for treatment is of paramount importance. The organ donation does not require a reward, it is a reward for itself, and John Paul II said as my colleague Prgomet has already mentioned, "All that can serve the living is sin to bury." It is very important for transplant medicine to promote it in society. The formation I would say is perhaps the same and most important and important, the formation of a healthy public change and public support. Therefore, the role and media that helped to acquire this public, to create trust in the health system when it comes to transplantation, to present many valuable examples, to preserve the lives and health of difficult patients, and thus to contribute to the shift in organ donation and collection. Known public figures at all levels, starting with artists, writers, politicians and others, can also play a valuable role in promoting organ donations. It plays a significant role in Croatia and Croatia as a voluntary organisation in the area of civil society. The donor card was and is at the heart of public actions in the Western European countries and an important place is taking place with us, and the official Croatian donor card is under the motto "Life on a Gift" so it looks like this. And why it matters is that signed donor card I own. Well, it's a fact that if a dead person's attitude is known, then the family in 90% of the cases gives permission to take organs and without that familiar attitude, the positive answer is only in 50% of the cases. Of course, they are also found in the professional involvement of health services in the collection of organs. All due respect for the individual dignity of the deceased but also for her family, doctors are reluctant to ask the family for permission after the death of their patient, and it happens that they do not seek permission at all or often refuse to give their consent on the other hand. Therefore, today it is generally held that a model such as on several occasions already points out that the model of assumed consent with the possibility of active exclusion is the model that the public best accepts and thus respects the individual right to its own decision. In fact, in Croatia, such a model has existed since 1988 and the application of the law with the assumed consent has started, although in practice it is common to seek family consent. This means that parts of the body may be taken for transplant purposes only if the donor has not objected in writing, this is mentioned in the proposed law of Article 22. The chosen doctor here has received one task to be required, so the primary healthcare doctor is obliged to meet the patient about possible opposition to the donation of the transplant body and to allow him to make a written statement and that written statement will be delivered by the doctor to the Ministry of Health. More important, I consider Article 21, which states that parts of the body with the deceased may be taken for the purpose of transplanting to another person after death has been determined with certainty according to medical criteria and in a prescribed manner. And the way and the procedure and the medical criteria of determining death that the rule will prescribe the minister and as this seems to me the most common non-compliance for life but not agreeing to the family because of the fear of taking the organs of a person who is not dead or that there is still hope I think this question would be good and legally regulated. It is also good that in the Ministry of Health and Social Care for the programme of increasing the number of donors and improving the transplant programme, funds from the state budget in this year about one million and 350 next year are provided by a little more than one million and 700 for transport costs, teams and information support bodies, for the introduction of a national waiting list and distribution of organs and tissues, for monitoring of transplant results and for the purchase of communication technology for the purpose of ensuring one availability and rapid exchange of information, and promotional activities and continuous education of healthcare professionals involved in this programme, and all this is very important and gives one assumption of further development of transplant medicine and our commitment to its development. And since this legislative proposal is in line with the legal gains of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe, I support its adoption and I believe that the Proposer will adopt all useful remarks until the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16800	Thank you. The word has an esteemed representative, Lucia Chikesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16801	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Before us today is the first reading of the proposal for a law on the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment as a conformity of the same proposal with the acquis of the European Union and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. Of course, I fully support the adoption of this Law because by choosing my calling, I have placed myself in the service of life, in the service of improving the preservation of life, health, and conditions for a healthy life, never and never in the service of death. It is this law amongst them that I would say that it best promotes the culture of donation and contributes to life. In Article 39 of this Act, the rights of donors, recipients and protects them from possible abuses, regulating the relations of all those institutions and individuals involved in this process. In the morning list of July 1st this year, a large part of page 6 was taken up by author Susana Ciboci titled "The Goodness of the Unknown saved our lives". In this article, Vukovar and Karlovchan have been talking about their lives and the merciless disease that has bound them to a hemodialiser machine for years. The tragedy of the Ossetian woman who received extensive brain effusion and when she was diagnosed with brain death her family was guided by her non-resistance of organ and tissue donations decided to donate the same. And I quote the lady who said "one human tragedy and dear God gave me a new life, I will never forget 17 April two years ago when a doctor came to me in the middle of the night while I was on dialysis at Osijek Hospital and said we have a kidney for you, you are traveling to Zagreb for surgery.". This is the story of the Vukovar woman who, besides this tragedy, had an even greater tragedy because she was alone without her loved ones, lost her son in the Homeland War and then her wife, but God did not give up on her this time. If all or most of us were to act as Ossetian and her family, the need for living donors would hardly exist, and so would our Pope John Paul II. testifying to life and serving said all that life can serve is sin to bury in the country, and in Croatia now 900 people are waiting for a kidney. As I prepare to contribute to this debate, I have consulted my colleagues and friends who are part of the organ implantation and transplant team in our Republic and especially about the two biggest concerns of a potential donor where every potential donor is struggling with the question of whether my non-opposal of organ donations to tissues and cells will be misused by someone but there is a question of potential recipient whether the national waiting list is fair and whether I will welcome a new life, life after a transplant. They convinced me that abuses can't be, everything happens in the system of the Ministry of Health and Health and Ethics Commissions, health institutions diagnosed with death are separate from the teams for expansion and transplantation and have no insight into the national waiting list. Two ethical committees within six hours determine death based on two clinical and one paraclinic tests. A national waiting list is available to potential recipients as well as results of HLA typing, i.e. organ, tissue and cell compatibility tests. I was also interested in the official position of the church, although it was all said in a sentence that I quoted from the Holy Father, so I consulted our famous bioethicalist Dr. Posaiæ, who has looked at this Law and fully considers it appropriate and good except for several lecturing objections. My suggestion to the restoring ministry would be to consider the possibility of providing sufficient money for testing programs for the compatibility of the tissue of potential donors, and these tests we know are quite expensive. And that certainly consider the possibility of stimulating team members, because it is not the same to be on regular duty or at any time of the day to break free time or night off your dream and in the shortest time to organize organ transplants and transplants. And we know that so far counts as regular duty. I'd also touch criminal provisions. and the possibility of increasing penalties for all those who would violate this law should be considered whether it is a legal entity or a natural person. Of course, there is a problem and a good organisation and therefore a serious consideration should be given to the possibility of organising and the State Agency for Explotation and Transplantation. However, I say my colleagues have all shown a donor card so far, and I have decided not to keep everything in words and to show it by example, because in this law, this bill obliges us and Article 30(2), all healthcare professionals are obliged to take appropriate measures for the purpose of promoting organ and tissue donation, and for this occasion I have worked hard and brought donor cards to all those who did not sign it, to sign it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16802	Thank you. Dear Representative Jagoda Martic.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16803	Dear President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. From all the debates so far were individual and in the name of clubs it is evident that we support this, the adoption of this law, because it is clear to all of us and we agree that human life and the health of individuals in the first place in every society. So here's a few I'll try to cut short, since the debate was really exhausting. Here are some of my observations by reading this law that actually wants to regulate the problems of taking and judging parts of human bodies for the purpose of treating them in a way that fully protects the rights and freedoms of donors of potential donors and organ and tissue recipients. The law seeks to prevent any abuses that could arise through the application of this law in practice, because it is, in fact, an extremely sensitive issue that must indeed be formulated so as not to allow the trading of parts of the human body. That is why I believe that advertising the needs and trade of parts of the human body prescribed by Articles 6 and 7 of these articles would prescribe that these acts are prohibited. I believe that the violation of these legal provisions should be treated as a serious criminal offense, meaning not only sanction them with fines as a violation, but treat them as a serious criminal offense. Since the violation of these legal provisions can have serious consequences for human health. Also, the provisions of Article 14 which states that the body or tissue should not be taken if there is a serious risk to the life and health of the donor. Infringement of these provisions of the law should also be treated as a criminal offence, not only as a violation for which fines are paid. Article 4 states that parts of the body are to be taken into account by taking into account their fair availability as recipients, etc. from the national list. I believe that this article of the law should be specified and completed in such a way that the law accurately determines that all actions relating to the award of parts of the body must be recorded in writing and prescribed in accordance with a strictly established procedure. The procedure must be carried out in such a way that it can be seen who it is and when it has reviewed the national waiting lists and has found that it is not possible to find a suitable recipient in the Republic of Croatia. This procedure in law should be regulated precisely in order to prevent abuses and possibilities of trading in parts of the human body. It should be clearly established in the law that the procedure for granting the parts taken from the body will be detailed in a specific regulation, not respecting the prescribed procedure, and not recording the actions taken in this procedure should also be treated as a serious criminal act, as this can also enable abuse to enable the trafficking of parts of the human body. Article 10(3) should be complemented so that consent for the recipient can be granted by an extramarital mate, given that our legislation is recognised under the prescribed conditions both by the non-marriage and by the same-sex communities. The provision of Article 11 should be specified in a way that clarifys the costs of monitoring the health of the donor and the recipient after the medical procedure has been carried out. Article 22 speaks of the obligation of the selected primary healthcare doctor to inform the patient of the possibility of opposing the donation of the part of the transplant body and to allow it to be declared in writing. Which statement the doctor of medicine chose to deliver to the Ministry of Health. Does that mean I don't understand it from an article like this, does that mean that the doctor will have to ask each of his patients if they object to organ donation, because it's understood that we're all potential donors if we don't plead otherwise? Therefore, who guarantees that the doctor has asked each of his patients and who guarantees that, for example, in this register that will be with the ministry there is no patient, or a certain person really does and does not mean no, does it not exist because he is not being asked, or because he simply made himself known? Now I come to the question, how will the register of potential donors be made, and how will the records of all those who want to donate part of their body be established? Article 35 provides that all the rules adopted by the Minister are not also laid down in the rules on how to form such a register, so it is not clear how, in fact, one register is planned, where there is always an insight into all those who wish to donate part of their body. The need to educate and sensitise the public on the humanity and importance of organ and tissue donations is unquestionable, and it is certain that education on the need to donate organs and tissues should be developed far beyond medical circles, as provided for in Article 30 of this Law. It encourages the trend in the growth of donors and transplanted bodies, resulting from statistics presented to us in the opening part of this law. And I'm sure this kind of broader public action in terms of education, and here I am going to use words and promotions to make this trend even better and more positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16804	Thank you. Honorable representative Carmela Caparin.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16805	Thank you very much, Mr. President... esteemed secretaries, colleagues and fellow MPs. [[speaks off, can't be heard]] We've heard a lot of positive words, and I really think that this law is positive and I'm glad that this is how we're all going to set a consensus and we're all going to raise our hands for such a good law. If we look at the transplants then we'll see that she really has her own history, and that's a long history that starts in the 20th century in his first half when the first kidney transplant was made. Today, transplant medicine is one of the top medical skills whose development depends on solving numerous organisational, professional and ethical issues and the maturity of society to popularise this method. For the development of transplant medicine it is very important to promote it in society and one of the measures and examples of the popularization of donation we heard was a donor card. I'm sorry there's no Mrs. Lalic on behalf of the club who said she recently saw that donor card not worth anything. I think she probably thinks she's a lawyer that she's not worth anything in legal terms, but she's really made a lot of sense to people and to get to know what it means to donate an organ and whether they want to be donors and help another man. Thus, it is an incentive to talk about donations both in the family and in society, and we can view it as a pioneer for promoting transplants in society. We have 71st kidney transplants, but there is no organ donor in Croatia and can only be achieved by successful organization of the entire system along with legal regulations. Transplant medicine is also based on the public and therefore the collection of organs from the dead is today a basic source for transplantation, so without public support there is no treatment of a large number of terminal patients with long waiting lists. The organ has little and many needs, I mean donors. We've heard the numbers and how many people are waiting for kidney transplants, heart transplants, liver and corneas. Organ transplants in 90% of the cases are performed by dead people and all in 10% of the living. The transplant has been accepted as a treatment method and we need to be able to transplant the organs of those who are unfortunately injured in traffic and other accidents. Authority candidates are people with severe head and brain injuries who unfortunately have a lot to do with one of the highest rates of traffic mortality in Europe. We heard that the 18th World Transplant Congress was held in Rome and Pope John Paul II in early September 2000. came out of the Vatican for the first time to attend some scientific gathering. His first message is that brain death is definitely the end of a man's life, and the second is to encourage organ transplants from the brain dead in order to preserve the life of incurable patients. Almost no religion is against that, of course. Of course, donating organs in the event of death is for the benefit of other expressions and personal wills of each individual, and we certainly need to respect the civilization and cultural reach of our environment. In April of this year, the Ministry of Health said the number of donors and transplanted organs increased in the first three months compared to the same period last year. The figures are impressive of 300% and the first three months of 2003 were performed 20 organ transplants and in this year as many as 60. What I really need to show is that it refers to kidney transplants and the problem of haemodialysis, we see that the number of patients who are on haemodialysis is very high and that in 2003 it is the number of 3 thousand and 200 patients. In 2003 we have a number of one list waiting for 900 transplant patients and we also see that 79 people have been able to transplant. What is also saddening is that 19 people under 20 are currently in the Republic of Croatia on haemodialysis. My Bjelovar has 52 people on haemodialysis, 16 waiting for a transplant. This law seeks to provide more donors and more transplants. The law prescribes the confidentiality of personal data, dead donors, etc. That I don't count anymore because we heard it. Therefore, this law regulates the problem of taking and transplanting works of the body for both the purpose of treating and the legal solution and the harmonisation of the legal norms of Europe and the European Union. There are still too few health promotions in the media about organ transplants. Without public support, gentlemen, there is no treatment for a large number of terminal patients. The public must be informed and the transplant is the only field of medical practice that requires public support and information and the family that intervenes is given permission to take organs in 90% of cases and non-informing is less than 50%. The best way to transplant the organs of a deceased person who's had a brain death without his heart beating. So it's about the irrevocable loss of brain function with the known cause that it's caused to rule out any condition that can mimic brain death. The establishment of brain death suggests a high degree of internal organization of each hospital, its professional quality of personnel and high levels of medical technology. Death can only be determined by examination and confirmation of the apparatus methods to prove either the termination of circulation or the absence of bioelectric activity of the brain. Of course, in that part of the hospital they must be equipped and educated. And that's why I appeal to those who don't have a certain apparatus to help them get it. A man is only alive as long as his brain is alive and of course there are afraid people to take an organ especially to a person who isn't dead, afraid it wasn't enough to help him before taking the fear of selling it, etc. However, this law in that part ensures the true safety of those looking for the kind of help medically, and I hope that all of this law, as we have said, will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16806	Thank you. Honorable representative of Vice Vukov.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16807	Dear Mr. President, gentlemen of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps it was a sensation and a century ago when Dr. Christian Bernard here already performed the mentioned decades ago the first heart transplant. The gentleman who got that new heart was called if you remember Luis Warsawski and lived with him for 28 days which was enough for that time to declare it a sensational success of medicine. The fact that it was the heart of a young black woman and that everything was happening in the South African Union, then another union, the land of apartheid, caused certainly racial comments. There, the heart of a black woman was good for the body of a white man. But what makes me mention this famous case to everyone is the fact that after the death of Luis Varškanski for 18 days, so after the operation, we first heard of an appointment that has not only since then disappeared from our everyday use but also enriched many other disciplines and areas of human activity in view of its very usable metaphorism. It's about the famous rejection of a foreign body. So we found out then that Luis Warsaw's organism chose death, so to speak, because he refused to adapt to the foreign body. And so for the first time in history we proved not in some philosophical or literary way as until then but in an exact scientific way that every man is not repetitive, unique and... So you can't just transplant a part of another body on it, that the foreign body of a man simply refuses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With this concrete knowledge since then, which we have forgotten a little bit given the later successes of medicine in this sense, nothing else could have torn this phenomenon and this problem of organ transplanting from psychological and moral connotations. Medical science, of course, didn't surrender after... Dr. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bernarda, from his time, was found increasingly effective medications that train the organism to accept a foreign body in its own interest. To say so instead of death chooses life. Organic scientific medicine, therefore, is a nearly entirely prevailing problem today. But as society has failed to overcome the fear of foreigners as visible from recent events in connection with asylum shelters, so in this problem of organ transplanting are not the opinions I have removed many subconscious and natural reflexes in this regard. The tenacity of dilemmas on this subject is also witnessed in Article 3 of this Law, which states when taking the works of a body from a deceased person should be treated with due respect for the personal dignity of a deceased person, the personal dignity of a deceased person. Of course, the meaning of this formulation could be debated indefinitely and the fact that we are convinced that we know what it meant not to be said because it does not simplify but only further complicates this story. When it comes to believers, the Church, apart from passive opposition, should clearly say what happens to the dignity of the deceased and what dignity comes down to. It is easier with atheists to solve things because they do not believe that after death there is anything more and that the dignity of the deceased person moves into the memories and thoughts of the living. Believers do know that the body is dust and earth and that man's spirit is what is eternal and which does not share fate... and working matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so it seems miraculous to me that it is precisely consistent to interpret our beliefs, both believers and atheists, that we should agree on this issue. It should therefore encourage awareness of the need to transplant organs for the sake of the life and health of another human being. Regardless of all of this here, however, the obvious two face-to-face, two confronted and conflicted facts of life. First of all, I don't believe there are many who disagree with me with the idea of organ transplanting. Secondly, I'm also sure there are few who have no subconscious trauma or reserves in this regard. We heard the other day in a movie about a sick child asking his father if he would be prevented by the criminal properties of a crime whose bone marrow was supposed to be transplanted to him. Of course it's a movie, but it's a pretty picture. It is also difficult to cope with the feeling that the earth, the remnants, the people for us are sacred, etc., etc., could be cited another set of examples. Let me get this straight. I believe that the legislator, despite the fact that in the meantime, organ transplants have become one widespread practice, must take these two facts into account without a reservation. It must seek long-term training measures to create as many aware donors as possible. should try to make sure that everyone clearly decides on life of course what might happen to his body after death. Only in this way can it make sense to speak of the dignity of a person and also of a deceased person. I tend to believe that regardless of the practical medical needs of only man’s clearly expressed will in this regard must be respected. And if that will fails, I find it a little pretentious to interpret it as a consent as it seems in the article, in the first paragraph, Article 22 of this law, which actually states and if a slightly different terminology is used in which it actually states that an organ can be taken from each person, if there is no previous written opposition from him. In other words, it is clear that it can be taken from any organ from any dead person. However, I must say that this article is so written that it seems to suggest otherwise than it says because it suggests some restrictiveness but in fact it opens all possible fences in that sense. I must say, according to this, the provisions of this first paragraph of Article 22 have profound doubts. I think you should still have the consent of a person and not consider the absence of written opposition as consent. I think that this long-term opening of spaces for many malfeasances and for the true humiliation of a human being. After all, as Slavko Kolar would say, "Every one of his bodies is master.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16808	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, PGS's respected advocate, Alenka Košisa Chicin-Shain, for the last five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16809	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. In front of us is a proposal for a new Law on the collection and transplantation of parts of the human body for the purpose of treatment because the existing related law, the Law on conditions for the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body dates back to the early 1990s and, given the rapid development of medical science and the accompanying legal regulations of the European Union, is completely inappropriate and outdated. Advanced medicine daily offers new, increasingly sophisticated treatment options and transplants of a whole set of organs, which until recently was almost unimaginable but of course such common situations require much more precise procedures, so-called. protocols especially in cases where they, when... persons who, in view of their child's picture, are unable to give consent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But here I would no longer look back on the assumed consent so-called. Presume the consensus, i.e. that parts of the body from the deceased must be taken for transplant purposes only if the donor has not objected in writing. Because this has already been discussed by the predecessors today and it is not a newspaper in this law because such a provision has been processed for 10 years. From the moment of writing the first version of the law. And that it was never applied in nature as such. However, what remains unsaid in this law, which has not been applied before, is precisely because of what will be done at the time, who will testify, or how there may be written opposition from donors. The fact that opposition is not stored in the ministry is not going to be approached by any doctor. However, there are many places for such indiscretions, for example. in the case of a ban on monetary income, in the case of trade in organs or tissues, in the case of the retention of confidentiality of data, it is not mentioned anywhere, there are no sanctions for the donor being for the medical staff. And not so long ago, we witnessed an article in the paper about taking and not so long ago we witnessed the article in the press about taking, installing and maybe marketing egg cells. Even today, we don't know what he's like, how that case ended. Let me also point out through this debate the lack of a bill that does not even mention the need to set up a roof organization “Croatia transplant” because we know that any international cooperation goes best through such national organisations and that this cooperation is better, so that the number of transplants in the Republic of Croatia is also higher than 116. It would also refer in particular to point 43 where it is mentioned what is part of the Ministry’s work as the competent authority for the following tasks, where the organ and tissue are assigned under indent 4 in cooperation with the Reference Centre for the collection and transplantation of organs is listed. The question of the Reference Centre for organ collection and transplantation of parts of the human body is not defined in the Republic of Croatia. There are no such centers. Now there is and acts the Reference Centre for Tissue tipping, which is entrusted with keeping the national waiting lists. The reference centre must have a criterion for national lists. This undefined and non-existent reference centre is also mentioned in Articles 31 and 32. Finally, in Article 35 of the transitional and final provisions, in addition to those rules adopted by the Minister, it is certainly necessary to add to the method and criteria for selecting donors and the way in which the national list is registered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16810	Thank you. Does the Secretary of State want, Dr. Christmases?
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16811	The very respected Mr. President, distinguished gentlemen of the National Assembly and representatives of the Croatian Parliament, allow me first of all to thank all our fellow citizens who gave parts of their bodies to extend their lives and save lives, to improve the quality of their fellow citizens' lives, and especially those who among their loved ones, who died also selflessly gave in the most difficult days of their lives, moments of their lives. We must unselfishly and thank all the doctors, nurses and all the staff who worked on, both on expert and transplant teams. Indeed, it has been done most of the time because of altruism and also with the will that Croatian medical science and practice do not lag behind, and indeed we can proudly say that recent years have been major advances in transplant medicine. So today we are practically not 13 but 16 already have a donor on, on a million inhabitants and slowly approaching at least the average average of European countries. We're not at the bottom anymore. All this shows that it's really hard to do just with enthusiasm, I'm grateful to both the opposition and the position where we've all observed practically that it's necessary to move now to an even higher organisationally better phase, and that's the goal of both this Law and the Government to get as much advanced transplant medicine as possible. To prevent any misunderstandings here there have been a lot of speeches and about, however, giving ova will soon regulate a law that is soon to be regulated in the completion of the aided fertilisation. Furthermore, as to how citizens will choose to be donors, the donor card must have done a lot of promiscuous work, and it has been practice and remained a practice, and also a crucial way for a citizen to, if he really opposes giving part of his body, then he will present it to his doctor in writing, on a special form, and the doctor is obliged to forward it to the Ministry of Health where it is carried out, where there is indeed a serious registration from these persons. Also, when appearing at the Ministry of Health to a potential organ donor, then the Ministry of Health is obliged to check whether the patient is here or not in the case of the deceased, whether he has expressed his desire not to be an organ donor. The whole law has indeed sought to be harmonised with the European Union, with the positive laws of the European Union and on the basis of a broad debate on committees and later here during the session of the Parliament, we see that there are many days of support for this Law and I especially thank you for many good proposals that the government will take into account and I also thank you for your great attention and interest in this problem, which is special to us, will be our patients and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2004-07-09-0.u16812	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Proposal for a law on taking and transplanting works of the human body for treatment, first reading, P.Z. No. 111 The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the taking and transplantation of works of the human body for the purpose of treatment is adopted; Any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Who's in? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find it unanimous with 86 votes for the proposed conclusion.
